ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e119	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e122	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Ine Marie Eriksen, Kari Lise Holmberg and myself, I would like to propose the mapping of language skills at the health centre's four-year control.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e127	The representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e130	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to support the opposition in Belarus. Furthermore, on behalf of the big business representative Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to make proposals on the EEA matters in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e137	The representative Per-Kristian Foss will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e140	On behalf of Martin Engeset and myself, I allow myself to propose alternative models for assessing the functioning and medical conditions of applicants in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e145	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e159	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 125 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e170	It's a brand day today. Today, we have the first comprehensive management plan for one of our major maritime areas. Despite some disagreement, tough fronts and strong interests on both sides, we have now managed to achieve a plan that we can be proud of. Of course, not everyone can say quite contentedly, but I record that most people are reasonably satisfied. It testifies that the government had done a good job when they brought this plan to Stortinget. So what is the purpose of the plan? Yes, it is to facilitate the creation of value through the sustainable use of resources and goods in the Barents Sea and in the sea areas outside the Lofoten while maintaining the structure, functioning and productivity of ecosystems. In my opinion, this is fulfilled in the plan we have for treatment today. I would also like to stress strongly that all types of business in these marine areas must be good within a sound environmental policy framework. The principle of being a leader is central to environmental policy. Of course, that's the way it should be in the future. The management plan is a plan for co-existence between different types of activities in these marine areas. Activities in the petroleum industry shall, for example: go hand in hand with both fishing and tourism activities. There are challenges to this, but the plan has shown us that it is possible to achieve this. There are great opportunities in the future in travel and tourism. North Norway is really a pearl in the country. There are future international opportunities associated with just this part of the country that I think we've just seen the beginning of. These possibilities are being safeguarded and further developed. Among other things, it is important to operate different industries through good environmental management, so that tourists can continue to experience clean seas and beautiful nature in the future. The northern sea areas are special in many ways. Weather conditions, ecology, fish and other wildlife just bear witness to this. We are also facing major pollution challenges. For example, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has: showed us the international seriousness of this situation. Good environmental management is and will be absolutely fundamental in this way, both in relation to ourselves and not least in terms of our children and future generations. We have a moral responsibility for all of this – a responsibility that should lie at the bottom and be governing our further development in the area. Through this plan, we have provided a basis for further growth and development in North Norway, but not just in the north. Further development of the petroleum industry benefits the whole country. Petroleum industry is a foundation for our future welfare state as we know it today. Since its inception in the 1970s and until today, this industry has been a good part of ensuring value creation for our common well-being. We are at the forefront of knowledge and development in relation to this business. There will be petroleum activity in large and important areas of the Barents Sea outside Finnland and beyond the southern North. Important fields such as Snow White and Goliath must be further developed. All areas with granted exploration and extraction concessions, including 19th concession rounds, within a 35 to 50 km track along the coast from the Russian border to Troms II, shall still be subject to petroleum activities. With this plan, the oil industry will have a predictable framework to deal with in the future. No areas are permanently protected. Knowledge acquisition shall take place, inter alia: shooting of seismics in areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. In the light of this knowledge, the few areas that are not currently open to any activity will be re-assessed in 2010. This is forward-looking and good governance in the areas. North Norway has the future ahead. We cannot start a process aimed at petroleum activities in the most vulnerable areas until we have good enough information on just the areas that I mentioned. We first have to know what we're doing. Then knowledge is very important and absolutely essential. This is why we have chosen to conduct monitoring and knowledge collection instead of consistency. We will take our decisions in the future on a factual and knowledge basis. I would also like to stress strongly that ecologically sound management of the area today is not the same as sound management in the future. Today, we lack knowledge of the vulnerable areas on many points. Different types of professional bodies, including: The Marine Research Institute and the Norwegian Petroleum Institute will be central to the search for more knowledge of these areas in the future. Also through the work SEAPOP and MAREANO are envisaged in the plan, we will gain important knowledge to make decisions in the future. The plan shall be rolled every four years. This will ensure that the plan is at all times timely and up-to-date for future decisions on the areas. New knowledge of marine environmental values and the vulnerability of ecosystems as well as technological developments will thus be continuously part of our up-to-date and future plans. In the Workers' Party, we will also point out that the management plan is an important and central tool for the Northern Region Initiative of the Government. The government has identified the northern areas as an important strategic area in the coming years. The North will evolve from being a security policy marshalling area to becoming an energy policy force centre. This means that the area is facing major environmental policy challenges. The plan will be an important tool for the provision of Norwegian economic, environmental and security policy interests in the north, which will be given high priority in the coming period and which will have to be seen closely with each other. Oil protection equipment in the area, both for shipping and for other petroleum activities, shall be kept up-to-date at all times and at the highest international level. Preparedness for acute contamination must primarily protect the natural environment from damage or nuisance. This is done through both harm prevention and harm reduction measures. It is therefore important to see measures to enhance maritime safety in the context of oil protection. The fisheries management in this area is very central. Future business activities, e.g.: in the petroleum sector, must be carried out in close cooperation with fishermen and their organisations. The sea areas in the north are a tax chamber – a large tax chamber full of fish. Fish is good and healthy food. Fish is also an important export article. The fish is and has been historically important for North Norway. We have to make arrangements to secure that industry in the future. Through good and responsible management, fish are a renewable resource. Therefore, all future activities in the marine areas must take place within the limits given and given by nature and ecology in the area. We can't afford to squander this great wealth away. I would point out that Norway should also set the international environmental standard in the area, including: with zero emission requirements for the whole range of time to come. I also look forward to the rapid ratification of the ballast water convention, and the Government providing the necessary legal basis for action. I have also noticed the Government's plans for action in relation to the problem of environmental toxicities. The Workers' Party is fully associated with the Government's policy in this area. Finally, I would like to say that energy as an international factor of power is becoming increasingly prominent. The international debate that is taking place today clearly shows us this. We live today in a world where demand for energy is increasing much faster than production. In this perspective, Norway has a major and important role to play. We have a responsibility to manage our energy resources in such a way that it can benefit more than ourselves. What we do in the sea areas of the north concerns us all for that reason, and we are in the same boat. North Norway is really an opportunity part of the country now in the future. We're going to take care of this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e217	The representative Nordtun was very focused on the acquisition of knowledge. You had to take knowledge into account before making any decisions. I fully agree with that. I can't quite understand why it's so hard to say that impact assessment of an area is the same as acquiring knowledge, as long as you haven't concluded in advance. But where I find even less logic in the setting and the policy proposed by the Government, knowledge acquisition applies to e.g. Northland VI. In the case of Northland VII and Troms II, it has been said that knowledge acquisition will be allowed in the form of seismics directed by the Oil Directorate, and bird count and fish count and so on. But for Nordland VI, one does not even want to carry out such a knowledge acquisition. Can the representative Nordtun explain the logic of refusing knowledge acquisition for Nordland VI?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e224	As I said, here we are going to run a business on the precautionary principle. We're in so vulnerable areas that here we have to be absolutely sure of what we're doing. Norwegian oil production, from the start in the south of the North Sea and up in the Norwegian Sea, etc., is based on knowledge in these areas. There are many types of knowledge, but the Government has decided, through the Soria Moria Declaration, that Northland VI should not be touched during this major period. In the case of Northland VII and Troms II, we have chosen to go into broad knowledge acquisition before making our next decisions in 2010. I have taken note of the proposal of the Advance Party that we should proceed with the impact assessment. I assume that the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen knows what is in the law regarding the impact assessment. It is based on something else for the purpose of granting extraction permits. It's in that paragraph. That is very important. We want knowledge before we take that step and move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e233	I would simply like to ask if you have any reason to trust the Workers' Party on oil and energy matters any longer. When we go back less than a year, there is no lack of promises from the Workers' Party. They traveled around North Norway promising a high level of activity. They traveled around industrial areas and promised to put a new industrial power regime in place quickly. They promised to put in place a green certification scheme. Jens Stoltenberg, at the Workers' Party's last national meeting, made it clear that oil exploration outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål must start as soon as possible to keep the young people in the region. What in the world has happened to the Workers' Party in eight to nine months? Or does the Workers' Party today appear to be the policy edition of the famous TV series "X-files", you don't think so until you see it? When can we see the results of what was promised in the last election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e240	I will deal with the matter that we are dealing with today in Stortinget, namely the management plan in the north. Then we get back to the TV program that the representative Kristiansen referred to, in other contexts. The working party is trusted. I assume that Kristiansen, as a representative of the National Assembly, has read the Soria Moria Declaration, and that we deliver in areas by areas. The previous government chose to launch a management plan for the northern regions. We follow up this matter. If the representative Kristiansen had agreed to read the management plan and what is there, and not least went into the 19th concession round and what happened before the 19th concession round, he would have seen that there were big things happening in these areas. The Labour Party is behind every decision. I wonder what the management plan would have looked like if the Bondevik II government had completed this work, when we see the gap in the position today between the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e247	According to the Minister of Oil and Energy, the Seismic Oil Directorate will collect in Northland VII and Troms II, based on modern methods of collection according to today's industry standard. It's good that we use good technology. Nor will there be such a difference between the way in which the Oil Directorate and the industry are surveyed. My question will then be: is it the Workers' Party's assessment that the seismic data from the geological surveys of Nordland VII and Troms II should be included as part of a full impact study on petroleum activities in these affected areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e254	What you're adding in the ocean area that the queryer is now asking about is based on several types of knowledge acquisition. We say clearly that it is the Oil Directorate that is going to take care of the shooting of seismics in these areas. There are special procedures for shooting seismics. It shall be done in a humane and good manner and shall also have a security of performance. So when we take the total summary in 2010, when the management plan is to be revised and re-examined, we have a proper basis for seismics as well. That's why we feel safe at the Oil Directorate, which is now starting to do the job in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e263	Let me start by taking up the suggestions that the Progress Party is on, and I've remembered that. There are many themes you can focus on in a matter like this. The management plan has the task of clarifying the overall framework for marine activities. The representative Nordtun explained a lot about it, so I'm not going to repeat it. The management plan shall also balance many different interests where the petroleum industry is only part of the large picture but, in the opinion of the Progress Party, an important part. Shipping, oil protection, fisheries, rural policy, foreign policy and infrastructure are all important issues that you can and should say a lot about, and the Committee has done so. However, in most of these areas, the Committee agrees mainly on the basic approaches to the development of the northern regions. Everyone in this room wants the best for the people of North Norway, and everyone wants a good balance between the different interests. Environmental vision is well anchored in all parties. This disagreement is more reflected in different assessments of the risks and consequences of accidents. The Committee is united in expressing the importance of such a readiness to protect oil, a good navigational officer and in stopping fishing for thieving purposes and promoting sound oil activities. My colleagues will address this in more detail. With such broad consensus on the general context, it is the practical implementation that will ultimately target whether the Government has succeeded in its policy. Unfortunately, broken promises already in the initial phase – already before the ship has sailed – have shown that there is a concern that one will achieve the objectives expressed by the Government. It's enough to look at what happened to voluntary oil protection. The WWF has applied for support and has been defrosted with crumbs. It's enough to refer to the sailing director, where the government has expressed a target of 30 miles from land, but already in the first posts they added up to 14 miles. The acquisition of knowledge, which everyone focuses on, does not harmonize with the total closure of Nordland VI for the acquisition of knowledge, and the failure of Northland VII and Troms II to establish consistency. Some would like to respond to the fact that today's debate focuses a lot on oil activities. For many in the north, tourism, fisheries and other business sectors are still more important sources of income than the oil industry will be. However, I would still like to focus on oil and petroleum policy, because this is where the most important policy is to be defined today. The management plan is most specific in terms of the framework for the oil industry – where it will be opened and where it will not be opened in this context. While the Committee correctly states that shipping has the greatest environmental challenges, it is still the oil industry that becomes the victim when SV is to be awarded some victories in this matter. Many in the government parties will refer to the management plan as a great victory, even though they fully know that they have broken a pile of election vows in this context. All, especially in the north, believed that the government would clarify the framework conditions for Northern Ireland VI, Northern Ireland VII and Troms II. Many voters in Northland and Troms thought one vote to the Workers' Party would give a management plan. Instead, they got a postponement plan. The most prospective areas of oil activity are not opened. They are not properly closed either. The government only postpones the matter. Then it's natural that a lot of people will focus on it. The Progress Party wants a more offensive and optimistic attitude towards the role of the petroleum industry in the management plan. Over 30 years of experience from the North Sea has given us valuable experiences. We are among the leading countries in petroleum-oriented technology. Snow White and Worm Lange illustrate that technological challenges can be solved. There are positive notes between the oil industry and the fishing industry, and there is reason to believe that one would have success off the coast of North Norway, as one has had off the coast of Rogaland. Unfortunately, there is political emergency aid to SV that puts an end to the activity in several places. Now it's not all dark -- there's a lot of things to enjoy. It's a pleasure that the oil adventure will be speeding outside the Finnish coast. There reason has prevailed, and the wishes of the broad majority of population that exist are being fulfilled. This is possible because, fortunately, SV has lost both its ultimate demands in the election campaign. They shall not be passed on to petroleum-free areas at any point. Thus, there are no permanent obstacles that make it difficult for other large numbers to make changes. They don't stop Goliath – a project where the party spokesman drove civil disobedience to stop. Fortunately, the unorthodox practices of the Minister for the Environment in the autumn towards the exploration activities of the oil company Eni proved to be just a blow in the air. Fortunately, the Minister of Environment’s statement at the SV National Governing Council that the desire to fight is felt by the fact that oilmen dressed in clothing was just a formulation for internal use. Some necessary and relatively uncontroversial clarifications have been made in the management plan, and that is good. So far, only a few of these questions have been pushed forward, pending the plan, and it is good that those decisions can now be taken. At the same time, I cannot allow patriotism to take over completely, as the representative Nordtun did when he spoke to NTB on the day the committee gave its opinion. I cannot go forth and lift the Norwegian flag and cheer silently over what has happened, for many areas of Northern and Troms have been subjected to a regular political regime, since the management plan has become a defensive postponement plan. The few understand why the government refuses to open the impact investigation of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. These are the most prospective areas of the petroleum industry, and geographically they are outside areas where relocation has been normal for many years. It is a paradox that the Government will deny systematic knowledge of the consequences of petroleum activities in these areas. This is done in a case where the word «knowledge» is used as often in the committee setting as the Workers' Party used the word «toolbox» in the election campaign. In retrospect, we see that the Workers' Party really meant to talk about jewelry boxes, not about toolboxs, and that's the same attitude towards vocabulary that's probably the reason the Government refuses to make an impact assessment. Knowledge is something the Government should adorn itself with, but not use as a tool for value creation. Where is the logic when the Government permits knowledge to be acquired through limited seismic and bird counting, but not so much that it can actually give a qualified opinion that the petroleum activity can take place without an acceptable risk? Where's the logic when the government says it's safe to run seismics in Northland VII, but not in Northland VI? There are no environmental reasons, as I have heard so far. It is likely that the government partner SV is afraid that knowledge must show that petroleum activities are sound and that they can live side by side with fisheries. I guess SV has observed how the petroleum industry has met the expectations, the requirements and the technological challenges. After all, we should remember that if we allow impact studies today, then possible expansion is many years, if not many decades, ahead of time. A lot of technology can be developed within the issues we are discussing today that will be solved. It therefore appears as pure symbolism when the Government chooses to do as they do. It is regrettable when the red-green government does not listen to the broad population of the north, to business and to industry, and not least to its own peoples elected in the regions, who want the regions to be subject to impact assessment. On the other hand, it is positive that the Progress Party and the Right are listening to the local forces. We're doing what the local workers' party representatives in all three northern states want. The Labour Party may continue to change its mind today because the proposals are for voting. We have done this in a constructive way. We invite to a cooperation where the government does not commit itself to anything for Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II, other than to make an impact assessment. If the impact assessment shows that oil business is not appropriate, then we accept that. This is not to be opened up to oil companies. But if it turns out it's perfectly sound, we wouldn't have wasted many years for some parties to be allowed to train a desired progress. The Labour Party is trying to put itself in the middle of this case as evidence of a good compromise, as the representative Nordtun has said to NTB several times. The truth, however, is that a small minority in this Chamber have blocked the wishes of a large majority, and the compromise is only about postponing decisions for purely political and tactical reasons. This will be the narrowest oil compromise on Stortinget. The invitation offered by the government parties to the opposition in the autumn is not worth anything. 87 of 169 representatives are behind the majority who adopt the management plan. Some suggestions correctly illustrate that there is disagreement in the opposition as to how far one should go, but this disagreement is much less than the Workers' Party and SV illustrated in the previous period when they were able to flag their primary positions. Worse, for the Government, the opposition actually stands together on a number of proposals that we do not receive support from the government parties. That's what I think is sad, and it shows that the government's parties act as a voicepath. Fortunately, the Government is proposing a revision of the management plan as early as 2010. That's good. A lot of people are ready for rematch. No decision is taken today that specifically binds future government constellations. It is perfectly legitimate for the Progress Party to take that rematch and get the Northern Region bet on a better track. In fact, I believe that the Workers' Party will also be involved in that rematch, because we saw that they started the rematch already when the management plan was submitted, and so did SV. It shows how fragile this compromise is, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e312	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e317	I think we should be happy not to vote for the reality description of the Progress Party. I think it's far from the truth. I just have to point out, as the representative Solvik-Olsen has now described, that here we have a part of the country in great growth, and here we lay the framework for the new development in the north. In the case of Solvik-Olsen, I just have to stress one thing: Nordland VI is consistent. We have decided not to engage in oil activity in this area during this four-year period. My main question to Solvik-Olsen is: does he not see the difference between an impact assessment, what paragraphs and what law underlie an impact assessment, and what we are now proposing with the acquisition of knowledge, before we should possibly go to that step in order to grant an extraction permit in 2010? Doesn't Solvik-Olsen look at this differently, and is he not interested that we are basing our decisions on as much knowledge as possible about these vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e326	Of course, the Progress Party is concerned with as much knowledge as possible. That's also why we say that this should be done in the most proper and tidy way possible, so that we get systematics in it. Instead of doing as the government has done, hiding behind a protection of SV and saying that one will only have limited seismics, bird count and such things, the Progress Party wants to get systematics on this. I also believe that the representative of Nordtun knows very well, and would agree entirely with the Progress Party, whether he had been free and not in a government constellation. The point is, as Nordtun himself pointed out, that the purpose of an impact assessment is to see whether to open the areas. But there is no obligation in an impact assessment. If the impact assessment shows that this is not appropriate, there is nothing by carrying out an impact assessment that binds one to the immediate opening of the areas. Then one waits, develops technology, acquires even more knowledge, and then takes another round. That is what the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e333	You can get a rather dull taste in your mouth when you hear the talk of the Progress Party about knowledge and knowledge, and that it should be used as a basis for politics. The stage of progress is distinguished in its position by being those who will systematically take at least into account the environment. The Progress Party does not even have enough knowledge to conclude, in line with the rest of the world society, that man-made climate change is the greatest environmental threat we face. They also stand out in one more area. Even the Right Party, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, supports the Government's framework for the petroleum industry, when we want permanent protection around the Bear Island, and when we want it not to operate in 65 kilometers around the island, which has the world's densest populations of seabirds. There we have enough knowledge to say that there's not going to be any business there. But obviously the Progress Party has enough knowledge of the other way to say that oil is also going to take place in the rocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e338	As I said to the representative Nordtun, the Progress Party systematically works to acquire knowledge. When we say we're going to have an impact study, it's worth noting that we're not saying that it should result in oil business anyway. That's the same thing we do when we don't want one to protect all the areas along the coast. One does not find anywhere in the setting where the Progress Party says that oil is to be opened tomorrow, but we say that we will not be able to protect it either. There's some difference. We believe that if the technology is so good and the legislation is so good that there is minimal environmental risk to oil companies in these areas, the Progress Party has no ideological problems in opening it up. I fully agree that in some of these areas we do not have the technology we need for oil business today. But neither does the Progress Party say the opposite. We don't want to get involved and commit ourselves to having a protection that will apply until 2010, if we like. finds out that the technology will be established tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e343	The representative Solvik-Olsen had a post in which he was in many of the areas we are discussing today, but one topic mentioned the Solvik-Olsen not, and that is the climate challenges. It may not be so strange, because the Progress Party is not aware of the fact that it is the man-made climate challenges that are the greatest, nor does it agree that we need to do something about emission reduction – despite the fact that the experts in the UN Climate Panel are increasingly confident that we are talking about anthropogenic challenges. But the Progress Party will start an impact assessment of Northland VI and VII as well as Troms II now, although all the trade unions say that there is no evidence here that oil drilling in these areas can be done without damage to fisheries and the environment. Is it true, then, that the Progress Party only listens to professional experts when it suits the party, and does it not have to be when it means that some tough decisions have to be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e350	Climate challenges were both the representative Holten Hemdal and the representative Sørensen within, so I link those questions together in my answer. Yes, we also observe that in some places it is the weather phenomenon that is tricky, but what we also observe is that although the majority of the Stortinges believe that it is obviously man-made CO2 emissions that are the cause, not all researchers necessarily agree with it. We believe that there is enough doubt that we should avoid making any bastant conclusions about the large costs now. Rather, you can use the same time and money to get more knowledge to be sure of what the causes are, what the consequences will be, and what you can do about it. Then it is also a little odd that we are charged with the issue of climate change, while everyone in this room agrees to increase the oil industry in the northern regions, which will just aim to increase the oil and gas extraction that emits CO2. The majority in this room also believe that it is right to use mobile gas power plants in central Norway. The complaints about the climate policy of the Progress Party are then quite hollow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e368	I think it's obvious to most people that the government should go a lot further in its activity to exploit the resources we have on the Norwegian base. One should go much further than what one has actually compromised and dared to do when it comes to investigating what kind of occurrences we have in our northern regions. I do not think it can be particularly consistent with the reality when the case-rapporteur in his main speech states that most people are satisfied with today's proposals and the position of the majority parties regarding the management plan. I'm afraid that you've equipped yourself with very terrible listening equipment with regard to all those who have great confidence in the many promises presented in the election campaign, not least from the wearing party of today's government, about all the activity you were going to go into in our northern regions. When you see what is being done in this area in today's setting, I think there are a lot of people who don't get excited, but are relatively depressed by disappointment. I believe that in many ways all those living and living along the coast are quite representative of the outcome of the study presented by the Committee, which clearly confirms – I would say in understandable clear terms to all – that the existing industries along the north coast are unable to prevent a continued deportation from the part of the country. Then it's a paradox to me that the energy storm power Norway is actually, with our experience from 30-40 years of activity in complex, challenging areas along the Norwegian coast, now chooses to take some rest cuts in terms of the activity we expected to be in line with the promises in our northern regions. We have built out a base that has created a wealth on land without equal in any other part of the world, and the West today is'stretching' because of the lack of people to put into the many vacant positions on land, and a well-being has been developed that appears to be a pattern without comparison with anyone else in the world. Then the Nordic youth simply don't understand that they're not going to have the same opportunities as it's politically determined to have in the rest of the country. It's just to take note that on the rise side the bearer government party failed in this area. The issue is that today's setting represents first and foremost the many lost opportunities. You lose opportunities, you lose time, you lose pace. It also ensures that the supply industry, what could have been built up in the north, also loses competitiveness. One loses the opportunity to be on the track with competitiveness and skill when the base is once built into the north, in the areas proposed by the Right with the Progress Party. We are strongly in favour of reopening the activities of Nordland VI, Troms II and Nordland VII, and we will also work actively to collect seismic data from the unopened areas of Nordland VI in the same way that the Government enters for Troms II and Nordland VII. I am also very afraid that we are losing pace with postponing in the uncertain within the cooperation to develop the base in the Barents Sea, also on the Russian side. We lose the possibility that world-class Norwegian technology and world-class Norwegian environmental standards can be involved in the development of the north. This is the side effect of the compromises that have been made on Soria Moria in this case, and it illustrates in many ways that limiting the pace of development also limits the rate of preparedness development along the Norwegian coast. So this is far, far from any win-win situation, so you could interpret the case rapporteur in his posts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e390	Righteousness puzzles me somewhat. There is a lot of evidence that Kristians today must have taken a lot of Møller's tran, when he says that this is a defensive plan, and that the Workers' Party is breaking promises. The reality is that the decision-making process with a new majority and new government is the cause of an offensive and comprehensive plan. The previous government would have presented a plan – according to Sponheim – with veto from the Left, which would contain several petroleum-free zones. This suggests that Kristiansen and Right are quite comfortable with and happy that they have come out of the band that the previous government put on the Right, that they are now happy to be done with the cooperation that they have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that they now as a supporting party for the Advance Party have a new and active and clarified role for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e397	I hope the voters in the north are able to judge the Right according to what we have actually done in the government position. We reopened the activity in the Barents Sea. We made sure to get Snow White in place, which appears to be an example of what the Workers' Party should have learned from, and which should have been taken further into account in all the promises made in the last election campaign, how Snow White and adjacent areas could develop in terms of new activity and new jobs. I think the Labour Party must sit with the attitude today that attack is the best defense. When today's government members from the Workers' Party said in the election campaign that they could not live with a situation where there was no immediate activity in Northland VII and Troms II, it could hardly be because I have taken too much Møller's tran. I think there are other people who have forgotten to use refreshing instruments that could have speeded up the political activity on the pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e404	The previous government was clear that the Lofoten was the most vulnerable area we have to manage in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area. The areas around Røst and inward towards the Westfjord are areas that are crucial for the spawning population of the world's richest cod tribe. It's also close to seabirds in the area, and there's coral reefs nearby. Most of the environmental criteria are in place, and none of the environmental or fisheries authorities recommend that activities should be opened up in the area of current knowledge. When the plan was presented, the right-wing manager said that she wanted us to have activity in this area as quickly as possible. Is it that the right jumps away from everything you promised in the last period, that what you do should be based on knowledge? Because here the knowledge is unique. With the knowledge you have today, you don't have to open up oil activity in Lofoten.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e411	I think SV should be extremely careful in today's debate about taking representatives from the Norwegian fishing industry to income for their vision, because it is actually quite far from the truth. I think SV has forgotten Norway's knowledge of the environment and technology, which is without comparison the best available in the world. We have 40 years of experience on Norwegian pedestal that has shown that we are able to master difficult conditions. In fact, it's not true that, in general, in the case of Northern Ireland VI, there are so many more complex conditions and challenges there than in parts of the rest of the Norwegian territory. I think that the SV really fights for – and you actually link yourself firmly to activity – is fair enough, but you don't have to push others in front of you in activity to prevent development. No one will see anything particularly useful in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e420	Ivar Kristiansen and the Right have spent time after the management plan was presented, accusing the Government of a breach of promises, and far from shutting down important areas for the necessary activity. They are associated with the Progress Party in most of the criticism of the submitted management plan, because you do not go far enough and because you do not open enough. At the same time, this government is attacked by the Left and Christian People's Party from the other side, because one opens too much and is not too environmentally friendly. Can Ivar Kristiansen tell me how he would have made a compromise if the government he represented in the previous period were to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e427	I think we would like to discuss whether it is a breach of promises or not, what representatives of the government parties have presented in the vote today. What we're doing is quoting the right to quote from the Labour Party's leading representatives who are in today's government. If you read the setting, no one with the benefit of Norwegian education from Norwegian school today can call this anything but a breach of promises. I do not quote the members of the Central Party or the SV of the Government. I think that when you judge the Right, you have to do it after what we got into government. We got the Barents Sea reopened for activity, with the Christian People's Party and the Left in government. We were given a 19th concession round of 64 blocks, which has created an unparalleled activity these days in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea. But what I think must be a bigger cross of thoughts for those who travel around their national environmental networks is how we now lose time and opportunities for close and good cooperation with Russia, which in any case will go further – perhaps based on a different standard than the Norwegian one.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e437	The environmental values in the Barents Sea are rich, unique and vulnerable. The Barents Sea is one of the world's most productive sea areas and has the world's largest cod population. No area of the sea has a greater density of seabird. We also have large bodies of deep-water corals in the Barents Sea. The Barents Sea is a unique habitat for whales, whales and polar bears. These are irreplaceable environmental values, and all activity in the area must therefore be done with respect for these values. The situation in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area today is relatively good. The structure, function and productivity of ecosystems and biodiversity are well preserved. But there are threats to this sea area. They come from long-range transport pollution, from introduced species, from acute pollution, from oil activity or transport and climate change. Nevertheless, we compare the areas of the Lofoten-Barents Sea with, for example, those of the Lofoten-Barents Sea. The North Sea, the situation there is completely different. Because of the overall environmental impact, the structure, function and productivity of ecosystems in the North Sea are far from intact. The main objective of the management plan is precisely to ensure that these areas of the Lofoten-Barents Sea continue to be as good as they are in the future. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that supports the ambitious objective of preserving the structure, function and productivity of ecosystems for the future. That means we're not going to have a development in these areas that we've had in the North Sea. There are always risks associated with oil and gas activities. This applies to day-to-day operations, drilling, transportation and accident operations. The area of the management plan is characterised by the fact that relatively small emissions at a wrong time and at a wrong location can cause serious damage. In 1979 we saw an example of that. A small oil spill from a ship in Varangerfjord destroyed and killed between 10,000 and 20,000 polar louvres. These are things that we, with the management plan, want to be able to avoid. However, if we are to preserve the environmental values of this area, the oil industry, or oil tanks, cannot get away with everything. That is why, with the knowledge we have today, we have protected the most vulnerable areas for oil companies. The management plan states that no petroleum activity shall take place in a belt 65 km around Bear Island and that it shall not be carried out at the polar front and at the ice edge. So the bear island has the world's highest density of seabirds, which are highly vulnerable to oil pollution. Furthermore, no new oil activity shall be opened in a 50 km track from the base line of the coast of Finnmark and in a 35 km track from the coast of Finnmark there shall be no oil activity at all. Nor shall there be oil activities in the Lop Sea outside West Finland. It is a significant spawning area for cod and has previously also been proposed as a marine protection area. At the bottom of the Lopenhagen, coral reefs have recently also been discovered, which are very rich in species and therefore feeder barrels too many fish species. The Finnmark coast is also the spawning area for lotteries, which is the main fish species in the Barents Sea ecosystem. Nor shall the edge of the oak tree on the Tromsøflaket and northwards be opened for oil activity, nor shall it be opened for oil activity in the Lofoten-Westerålen area. The area of the Lofoten–Westerålen – which I record as representing the oil industry first, is called Troms II, Nordland VI and Nordland VII, but which is the Lofoten–Westerålen – is the most vulnerable area we have in this marine area, and the richest, but it is also an area we know very little about. All the environmental and fisheries institutions have said that we do not have enough knowledge today to open up these areas of oil activity. This concerns the Marine Research Institute, the Directorate for Nature Management, in the case of the SFT, and it concerns the Polar Institute. The government has followed the environmental advice and has not opened up activity in that area. At the same time, we have managed to get the oil tanks about 30 nautical miles from the coast. We have launched increased measures against illegal fishing, and we are about to get a ratification of the ballast water convention, which is extremely important to prevent new introduced species. Finally, the precautionary principle must be the basis of Norwegian environmental policy. If we can do that, we can also demonstrate a management of the Barents Sea that will be an example for others to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e459	It surprises me a little bit that the representative Sørensen did not mention anthropogenic climate change so much in his post, especially considering that it is always part of her criticism of the Progress Party. We have heard today that representatives from the Workers' Party refer to the management plan as an offensive in the field of petroleum. This means that SV wants to support a policy of increased oil extraction and gas extraction in the north. That means that the products that we pick up will emit CO2. How does it harmonize, in relation to the criticism that SV is constantly targeting the Progress Party in climate policy, when SV is actually going ahead here and will increase the extraction of oil, on which we know it will not be CO2 cleaning when it is consumed? In fact, SV has been involved in mobile gas power plants, which then have to appear as a bigger environmental noise than the main solution of the Progress Party. But I don't get it all to vote against the line the representative Sørensen had on me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e473	That the Progress Party does not get climate logic to vote is no surprise. But it was interesting to hear the answer to Solvik-Olsen on the line from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal earlier, where he stated that when it came to climate change, we did not have enough knowledge that there were many researchers who disagreed here, and all the researchers had to agree before we could draw the conclusion that it was man-made emissions. In the case of oil, it's the exact opposite. We have so much knowledge that we have to switch things around. And we're being accused of bringing in more and never having enough! Do you know what the difference between the Advance Party and SV is? It is that we have taken on board that there will always be research doubts, and then it is that we have a leading commodity principle that says that when there is doubt, doubt should benefit nature. In the case of climate change, the Progress Party is doing the opposite. Just to say at the end: I am absolutely sure that no constellation in the Stortinget had come to create a more environmentally offensive management plan than the one presented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e480	SV has programmed to oppose petroleum activity in the Barents Sea and around Svalbard. SV has also programmed that the Lofoten should be a petroleum-free area, and we have heard in articles today that we are talking here about the most vulnerable areas. Nevertheless, SV chooses to open large areas in the Barents Sea. They also oppose the definition of the area outside the Lofoten and the West eels as a petroleum-free zone, despite the programme. SV went in just a year ago to determine how long the tugboat is wearing to reach a wrecked ship. Identical suggestions today unfortunately cannot be included in SV relative to response time of 6, up to a maximum of 12 hours. Nor is SV included in the proposal on zero emissions in relation to land installations, nor will SV consider seeking PSSA status. SV may well have been hostaged to the environment in a LO-dominated government. My question is then: Does the representative from SV acknowledge that the plan that has now been presented, precisely by a Swedish State Council, is involved in weakening fundamental environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e489	No, I don't. I believe that the plan presented by an SV State Council establishes and reinforces existing environmental policies. There has never been an environmental policy for the north with stricter environmental requirements and better shielding of vulnerable areas than this management plan does. This is a strengthening of environmental protection. I am not so satisfied when I think about the areas we have treated and got exempted and protected from oil operations. We start in the north: we have Bjørnøya, the polar front and the ice edge, then we have the 50-kilometre belt on the Finnmark coast, we have the Lop, we have the Egga edge, we have the Vesterålen and we have the Lofoten except – with the knowledge we have today – from petroleum activities. Then I'll be honest to say that the management plan is a real compromise. It has pained the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV on several points. But I am absolutely sure that no constellation in the Great Britain had come to present a more environmentally offensive management plan than the one that the Minister of Environmental Protection from SV presented earlier in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e498	When someone heard Heidi Sørensen's comments, a few people could get the impression that SV's policy is close to what is the reality of the management plan. The fact is that no batch program is as far from what is real as SVS. I assume that an SV in play would vote for all the proposals that the Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting today. The actual ratio, as it appears today, is that SV says no to oil. The result is a gigantic activity in the northern regions. SV says yes to green energy. The result is that renewable energy is stopped. Does Heidi Sørensen understand that more and more people are shaking the head of this betrayal and lack of consistency in SV's environmental policy? And for the sake of safety: is it still SV's policy that one is against all oil activity in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e505	No, I don't see anyone shaking his head, and I don't understand what Mr. Kvassheim is asking about, because it's not about environmental degradation. I believe that everyone involved in environmental protection sees an SV in the government fighting to achieve the best possible environmental policy given the framework that the decision to grant us. I am proud of how far we have just come to secure it in connection with the management plan. I'm not going to ram again, but I'm proud of the areas we've protected for oil companies. But I am also proud – it is wrong what the representative Holten Hemdal said instead – that the zero emission has been fixed. It's not weakened, as someone's trying to say, but it's sharpened. The majority now say that it will also apply as far as possible to farms. This was not done in the Bondevik II administration, so it is a tightening of the zero-emission requirement from the applicable regime. On several points, we've done a lot better, and I'm absolutely sure that no other constellation had presented a more environmentally offensive plan than what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e514	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e517	First of all, I take up the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party. Managing responsibilities are fundamental to the Christian People's Party. The aim of our environmental policy is to meet today's needs without jeopardising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Therefore, we need to manage the soil and natural resources in a sustainable way. Therefore, we must base the precautionary principle on energy and environmental policy. I am pleased that the Stortinget has been given the overall management plan for treatment. The Bondevik II Government started work on the overall management plan, with the aim of establishing a framework for balancing business interests related to fisheries, maritime transport and petroleum activities in the context of sustainable development. I am very pleased that all parties will base their environmental policy on the precautionary principle. These are committee comments that oblige. For the marine environment, the sum of the impacts of shipping, fishing, aquaculture and petroleum activities is essential. When all parties agree that the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten must remain one of the world's most untouched natural areas, it obliges us all. The entire Committee considers that the vulnerability of marine areas imposes particularly high environmental standards for oil and gas extraction. These are big words, but they have to be followed up with concrete measures because the environment needs them. The Christian People's Party is concerned about climate change, and it is also confirmed in the setting up of an overall committee that the Barents Sea is very vulnerable to climate change. According to CICERO, the Arctic temperature has increased twice as much as the global average. This is very serious. Unfortunately, it is the poor people in developing countries who are most vulnerable to climate change in relation to food production, water bodies and housing patterns. We must therefore strive to achieve our climate obligations mainly through emission reductions in Norway. All parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, also stress in the vote that today's Kyoto Protocol is just a first step towards meeting the global climate challenges we are facing. For me, good environmental policy is to know what to do, and thus to have knowledge of the consequences. The opposite would be running a risk sport, which the Christian People's Party will not be involved in. It is therefore good that an overall committee believes that a good knowledge base is a condition for sustainable ecosystem-based management of our coastal and marine areas. All the parties also agree that it is overall that we have knowledge of what possible activity in the area could bring. Although many good measures are in progress, the Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government has come up with a few new and concrete proposals for what they will do to acquire knowledge. It is also disappointing that government parties do not agree on proposals that sufficient resources should be allocated to building knowledge, although we all agree that there is a significant need to cover knowledge gaps in how the ecosystem works. The Christian People's Party and the Left have the support of the government parties when we refer to the message, where it states that: ‘knowledge needs relate to a number of aspects of marine ecosystems’. Unfortunately, the government parties do not allow words to follow in the form of concrete proposals either. The zero-emission target for the petroleum activity is targeted at the dangerous substances which are hazardous to the environment. Also here it is important to have a leading var-approach. The Christian People's Party believes that zero emissions to the sea must also apply to farms. It will be an important contribution to reducing damage to health and the environment. Unfortunately, we note that the government parties do not fully share our views here either. The Christian People's Party wants petroleum activity in the northern regions. Petroleum activity will contribute to value creation and employment in Northern Norway in particular, and will be important for Norway in general. The potential of oil and gas activities is high, both for offshore, for the supplier industry and for downstream activities. It's important, as the Christian People's Party sees it, that it facilitates the creation of value locally along the coast where the resources are located. The extraction and transport of energy resources, fisheries and aquaculture remain an important part of the basis for northern settlement. A fundamental consideration in Norwegian north-eastern politics is and must be to ensure that this is managed so that the values we have can be harvested and further processed by the next generation. It is therefore important, as the Christian People's Party sees it, that close cooperation is established between business, management, research and higher education in the north. In order to achieve a balanced and comprehensive management plan, the Christian People's Party believes that opening for development in some areas must be balanced against petroleum-free zones where the environment is most vulnerable. Oil extraction must not occur in vulnerable natural areas where environmental considerations suggest that it is irresponsible. The most vulnerable areas need long-term protection from the oil industry. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that a petroleum - free zone should be established outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. Petroleum activity must not be opened until it has been demonstrated that extraction can take place without damage to fisheries and the environment. It is very disappointing that neither the SV nor the Centre Party, which has programmed this, can support the proposal to establish petroleum-free zones in this area. In the oil message we treated two years ago, SV and the Senterparte were also very disappointed that the issue of petroleum-free zones was not addressed. SV even said that they feel this as ‘a fall for the business interests’. I then wonder how disappointed the SV and the Senterparte are today when the petroleum-free zones are completely missing from the message we have received, and I am familiar with it also makes it quite difficult to stand in the knee, as some parties are doing here today. It is also quite alarming that, while even the Progress Party is on a number of proposals to improve oil protection, the red-greens are on the sidelines. Coastal populations depend on clean and productive seas. All batches are concerned about the consequences of acute discharges from maritime transport due to ground impact, collision, structural failure and fire or explosion. We know that if oil activities are allowed within 120 kilometres, oil emissions will reach important natural values in less than two days. The result could be irreparable damage to both nature and local communities. When concerned about the serious impact this may have on fish and birds in the area, it is also appropriate to contribute to strengthening oil protection. The Christian People's Party believes that when we now open large areas of petroleum activity in the Barents Sea, and at the same time recognize that long-distance transport along the coast will increase, it is irresponsible not to rust up oil protection equipment accordingly. Once again, the great word from the Government is, but not concrete action. Current oil preparedness is not dimensioned for future needs. These include: not take into account future increases in oil transport from Russia. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have proposed that we have to have a satisfactory and up-to-date preparedness. Unfortunately, the government parties are not on it. The same applies to the proposal for a response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours for tugboats. This was a policy that stood for a year ago, but one unfortunately does not stand for today. The aim of an overall management plan was to assess the impact of the sea areas overall across sectors. One important idea behind the entire management plan was that it should be long-term, and the instruments should be seen in a long-term perspective. I therefore think it is unfortunate that the government will roll the plan already three and a half years after Storting's treatment. That means we're now on the rematch. We have been challenged today by Nature and Youth on whether we are ready for other rounds in the fight for oil in the north. We are. We have to be there. The Christian People's Party has eleven good players, and it's good that we're on that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e564	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e569	During the entire campaign last year, the Christian People's Party was very diffuse about its view of petroleum activities outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. But immediately they were out of government, they proclaimed petroleum-free zones — yes, actually both in Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. It would have put an end to a kind of employment and industrial development in the north forever. Petroleum-free zones are a concept which does not take into account the fact that technological development, the acquisition of experience or new knowledge may lead to other conclusions. I believe that fishing and petroleum activity will be able to survive in the future, including in the Lofoten and the West. Does the Christian People's Party believe that it is politically right to exclude these areas from economic development, and thus to say that one still wants to move away and quit industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e578	The Christian People's Party has always been clear that we should base the precautionary principle on our environmental policy. I cannot agree with the Labour Party representative that the Christian People's Party has been diffuse in relation to what we have thought about petroleum-free zones. The Christian People's Party has a clear programme, a clear programme in which we want petroleum-free zones. The Christian People's Party says that we must have knowledge before we can possibly open these zones as well. We don't want to be involved in any risk sports here. But we're going to be involved in finding a balance point. That is why this plan is so important. We need to find the point of balance between environmental considerations, fisheries and value creation. That is why we have said yes and we are today taking part in opening up areas for the development of the oil and gas industry, because it is helping to create employment in the north. But we must always have a precautionary principle that takes account of the environment, fisheries and future generations in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e585	The Christian People's Party obviously has long training in standing on its knees. I can assure you that this is an exercise we have not planned to do; we are upright on the management plan presented. I have a question for the Christian People's Party. It's about zero emissions. This is what I'm concerned about. The setting has reinforced the requirement for zero emissions, not weakened it, as Line Henriette Holten Hemdal said. On page 62 of the management plan, the existing zero-emission regime for the Lofoten-Barents Sea area is outlined. There's not a single word about what's going to happen in farms. In the setting, the Committee writes: «The existing zero-emission regime must, as far as possible, also apply to land installations.» [[...]] Does the representative Holten Heimdal not agree that this is an intensification in relation to the existing zero-emission regime as described by the Government of Bondevik in the main message «Rent and Rich Seas»?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e600	Thank you for that question! I'm also concerned about this. If you look at our proposal, we do not have from the Christian People's Party with 'as far as possible'. So it's the opposition here that sharpens the government's policy. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that says ‘as far as possible’. But if you look at the proposal, which we believe goes one step further – and it is necessary to go one step further – it is the Christian People's Party's policy. We're not in a kneeling. We stand upright, and there we must stand – for the environment and for the generations to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e609	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e612	In the Center Party, the ostrich is strong. Not only should you manage well what you have, it should also be handed over to the next generation in better condition than when you took over. Through this management plan, we provide a good basis for doing just that. Today, and in the coming years, this hall will take very important decisions for large northern sea areas, which are not only one of the richest food barrels in the world, but can also prove to contain one of the world's most important energy reserves. When we know that the state of nature and ecosystems is good today, we are very pleased that this plan and a concerted expansion state that we will in the future have a development and management of the area that will take place within an ecologically sustainable framework, and with the practice of the precautionary principle based on knowledge. We therefore assume that future generations will benefit from the rich nature and reap from it in the same way that we have the opportunity to do it. Much attention has been paid in the public debate to the petroleum activities associated with this plan. It is undoubtedly important, but this plan also points to some other challenges that need to be addressed wisely. The management of fisheries resources has been a success, if we compare with many other seas. Nevertheless, considerable work is needed to secure fish as a resource for the future. In the case of other marine biological resources, these must be managed in a good manner in order to ensure balance and sustainability. We know that shipping is growing rapidly. This also requires action. In particular, the presence and active management are important to support our territorial obligations and requirements. The centre party is very pleased with the basis this plan provides for a good and active policy in all these areas in the coming period. In the big group, we have been very pleased to note the government's focus and the resources that the government invests in an active north-eastern policy. The northern regions are one of our most important areas of activity in the future. Through this plan and other important measures, the Government and the bulk of the population have proved that we are serious. The centre batch was chosen not to open the most vulnerable areas to petroleum activity. We're going to sign that election vow today. At the same time, there has been an important movement in the Central Party on the issue of oil and gas activities in the northern regions. From saying a bastant no in the past, we have opened up activity under very strict requirements in the staging program for the current period. This in recognition of two important factors: firstly, technological development has made extraction safer and more environmentally friendly, and secondly, oil and gas activities have significant industrial and value-added effects both at regional and national level. No one can claim that the developments we see today in Hammerfest are not positive. In line with the main focus of the plan on knowledge-based development and management, a process will also take place in the Centre Party in the coming years to prepare for the roll-out of the management plan. The closure of marine areas for petroleum activity is an instrument to protect highly vulnerable and valuable areas from pollution. If it should prove possible that we find it environmentally sound to open larger areas of oil and gas activity through new technology and knowledge, we do not reject this bartant in the Center Party. The years ahead are thus also a challenge for the oil industry. Today, Stortinget releases areas of activity in the northern regions. If the companies in the next few years demonstrate that new technologies, efforts and not least the willingness of local initiatives are capable of meeting the demands of the environment and society, the way to opening up other areas is shorter. This perspective is important for growth and development in the north, but it is also very important to stress that this is one of many perspectives to be taken care of and that they all depend on nature and the environment not to be confused. Even with a strong growing industry in oil and gas, North Norway must succeed in many other things if one is to reverse the negative trends. Fisheries, agriculture and tourism are industries that will be crucial for the success of the region in the future. The management plan presented today, with an overall increase joining the main strands, is a step forward for Norwegian resource planning and Norwegian north-eastern policy. When, in addition, the balances are in line with our policies, I am not afraid to say that we regard this as a victory, and that it lays the basis for a policy that gives the generations of the future the same opportunities that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e632	One of the issues that many have raised, but on which the government parties have still not answered, is the logic of allowing an impact study on Northland VII and Troms II, but not having any activity and knowledge acquisition in Northern Ireland VI. Can the representative explain why a distinction should be made between three areas that, according to the government parties, are all vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e637	In the case of Northern Ireland VI, the Government declaration states that there shall be no petroleum activity during that period. In the case of Northland VII and Troms II, knowledge is acquired, not as an impact study under the Petroleum Act, but as the State itself acquires this knowledge. There is a big difference, simply because you don't take the next step and say that the purpose of this is to open these fields for expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e642	The centre party likes to market itself as a batch that wants to put the whole country into use. In contrast to this, the Centre Party in this case has emerged as a major brake block for increased petroleum activity in the north – contrary to the assurances given to its voters by the centre party people in the north. The role of the central party leader as mediator between the Workers’ Party and SV has also not contributed to increased activity, but to mitigate the level of activity. The Troms and North Nordland are being deprived of important opportunities for development, and the region feels brand new. I have two questions for the representative Borten Moe. Can the Away Moe explain why the Center Party says that you want to use the whole country, but only parts of North Norway? And can the Away Moe explain why the lot cannot be included in the comment from the Right and the Advance Party, which requires government agencies in the field of petroleum activity to be strengthened in the north, as activity increases in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e658	The management plan balances well the considerations between business development and the environment. With regard to the most vulnerable areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole and in Troms II, it states that today we do not have enough knowledge to open up activity in these areas. This is in line with the Central Party programme, and what we have said both before and after the elections. As far as areas further north are concerned, it is my opinion that we are opening up quite a lot of activity with opportunities for development and growth and value creation in this region – also in line with the programme of the Centre Party. With regard to the note on increased administration northwards, it has been tried earlier in relation to the Oil Directorate. It was centralized. We have chosen to support the Government, which says it is important to maintain an overall professional environment. So there's technical grounds for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e667	Ola Borten Moe said there has been an important movement in the Center Party on issues related to oil and gas activity in the north. That was a good illustration. The center part is barely recognized, and there's a reason to ask, where is the journey going? In today's program, the Center Party says that you don't want to open up gas and oil exploration outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. Nature and Youth today invited the parties to meet in the lawn outside to hear on which side they will participate in this work further. The center part didn't meet up, so it might be a good opportunity to solve that question right now. Now when one is moving away from the old point of view, can Ola Borten Moe say something about which side the Center Party will participate in the next round, towards 2010? Will there continue to be petroleum-free zones outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål, or is there a position on the way away?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e674	That I didn't get started early enough today to play football with the representative Kvassheim outside the Stortinget, I don't think you should put too much into it. Of course, we will be working towards the next roll-out of the management plan to say that the environment is at the centre and that all activity will take place on the basis of sustainable development in the region. It permeates the programme of the Centre Party. It also, in my view, permeates this management plan, and I hope and believe that we should be able to have constructive discussions on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e685	The work on the management plan was started by the Bondevik II Government. The aim was to provide the basis for good management of environmental and natural resources. The plan was also intended to provide the basis for positive developments in the northern part of the country. The plan currently in place can help to achieve these objectives. The methodology of the plan may be a model for other countries facing similar challenges and similar plans for other sea areas should be developed. But the left also had other expectations of this plan. We wanted a balanced plan, and we wanted a plan of long-termity. Unfortunately, these expectations have not been met. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, has said that the plan opens up huge petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. She's right. It is well done by the Workers' Party to get the SV – the only batch that is programmed to work against all petroleum activities in the north – into the structure contained in the management plan. One could understand that if it were a balanced plan, where it also included petroleum-free areas where the conflict with environmental and fisheries interests was most evident. But I can't find such a balance in the plan. This means that there is a fight going on even for the areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestral, and the development interests say they have good predictions and opportunities to reach when the plan is due to be rolled in 2010. Several central workers' parties have said that it is in the cards that these areas should be opened in the next round, and I was not reassured when I heard the answer from the Central Party representative here when he was asked on which side the Centre Party will participate in that work. He did not clarify whether the Center Party will also, beyond 2010, oppose activity in the Lofoten and the Vesterålen. As government parties act, it can unfortunately be a realistic prediction – as the oil industry hopes – that these areas will be opened at the next intersection. The left shall make its way to a different outcome, namely a petroleum-free zone outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. It is regrettable that the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party on this very matter today are supported only by the two parties mentioned. The left, as opposed to SV, goes in for petroleum activity in the north, but we have foreseen a balanced arrangement. A balanced approach means that when some areas get green light and some areas get yellow light – a person should gain more knowledge before a person decides whether it becomes yes or no – this must be balanced with the most vulnerable areas getting red light. What we have today is a plan of development. The Minister for the Environment has called the plan ingenious. That, I think, is alarming, given the distance the reality of the plan has from the SV program. In addition to the lack of balance, the Left considers it critical that the plan has too short a time perspective. It should provide clarifications that could at least have been valid until 2020. The government parties have a majority in Stortinget. That means they can do what they want in this and other things. In the past, it has been suggested that a would seek cooperation in the United Kingdom – anchoring this important decision more broadly. It has an unrelenting will to — not in any materially important areas the Government has shown the will to include, for example: Left and Christian People's Party to get a stronger environmental focus on the plan. This lack of cooperation means that good proposals on oil protection, tug capacity, means of covering knowledge gaps and zero emission requirements for farms are being voted down here today. It is alarming that all opposition parties are united behind several of the proposals. The Progress Party is also in favour of good environmental proposals that SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party will vote against. Oil preparedness needs to be strengthened when petroleum activity is increased in the northern regions. The government promises such strengthening, but the promises are little obligatory, and what one does in practice, is neither uplifting. For example, there is no willingness to provide the necessary support for the ‘Clean Coast’ project of the Villlmarks Fund — a project based on mobilising voluntary efforts in coastal zone preparedness. It is important to have such voluntary efforts in addition to public and company preparedness. The ‘Clean Coast’ action has mobilized significantly with people – at a low price – and I am amazed that the Government does not see the significance of this. There is no good promise in any way as to the willingness to further prioritise oil protection. The left focusses on the need for administration to be knowledge-based. Significant gaps in knowledge have been identified, and it is natural that this is followed up by a clear strengthening of research and monitoring. The government must use sufficient resources to strengthen the knowledge base in environmental and climate sciences, maritime law and marine ecology. The government must also ensure that sufficient resources are made available to ensure further monitoring, coordination and follow-up of the management plan. Research environments depend on long-term and predictable funding in their work. That is why we propose that the Government should allocate sufficient resources to meet the knowledge needs of the overall management of the marine environment in the Barents Sea and in the sea areas outside the Lofoten already in connection with the state budget for next year. I hope the present state councils can confirm today that such a commitment is already in the next state budget. There has been practice in the Norwegian Concession Rounds on the basis of which environmental and fisheries advice is sought from the underlying agencies of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Fisheries. The Left assumes that this practice will continue and attaches great importance to the availability of environmental and fisheries advice to the public. The left considers it important that the advice should include proposals on which blocks should be avoided due to environmental and fisheries conflicts, as well as recommendations on any remedial measures, such as: drilling time limitations. The left is concerned about the overall impact of long-distance pollution, future activity and the harvesting of natural resources in combination with climate change pressures. The left considers the announced investigation of the consequences of increased levels of CO2 in the sea and the atmosphere to be very important. It must be assumed that the oil activity of the Government is carried out under the Kyoto Protocol. The left considers it necessary to focus more on the control and monitoring of the renewable fishing resources in the Barents Sea and to support the Government’s measures to ensure good management of fish stocks. It is positive that the management plan addresses illegal fishing as its own theme, and it is important that it intensifys the efforts to reduce illegal fishing. We need to strengthen control of Norwegian and foreign fishing activities, both at sea and when landing catches. The left is alarmed by the signals that larger trawlers are destroying the seabed, important coral reefs and fishing grounds. The management plan recognises that heavy bottom gear irradiation damages the bottom so that the bottom communities change character and are thus destroyed. This message shows, for example: to 30-50 pst. of Norway’s corals have already been destroyed by such radiation and that ‘new’ findings are made by fungal communities and corals at each exploration. In particular, Tromsøflaket has been designated as an important area where there is currently little radiation. In one area there has been a change since the plan was presented, and we have had a public debate on it. It's been a positive change. It was announced in the management plan that the Government would add new required maritime transport sailing managers about 30 nautical miles from the coast of Vardø to Røst. Against this background, it was disappointing and alarming that the Government sought the IMO to lay its ranks much closer to the coast than 30 nautical miles. There were strong reactions in the environmental movement, and the Fiskers were drenched. When I signed on behalf of the Left in Stortinget, the Minister for the Environment confronted with this breach of promise, the response was that the arrangement with the sailing team was good and could not be adjusted. Later on, you adjusted it anyway, and that's good. However, parts of the members are still being laid up up to 18 nautical miles from the coast of East Finland. This undermines the professional base and recommendations made by the management plan. The positive effects of the management plan on North Norway have marked the debate today. It's natural. The left also wants to contribute to a positive development in North Norway, and we see that petroleum activities can contribute to it. Some exaggerate expectations about what will result and underestimate the importance of other industries such as travel and fishing. A positive development in North Norway will depend entirely on a good interaction between industrial development and sustainable resource management. Unfortunately, the management plan that we are dealing with today is not based on such a balanced principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e726	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e729	The Chairman of the Committee from the Left now says that they will establish petroleum-free zones in Northland VI, Northland VII – and Troms II. The first one isn't so eye-catching. The Bondevik II administration also assessed the creation of a petroleum-free zone in Northern Ireland, but not in Troms. The left was involved and presented that policy. In St.meld. No 30 for 2004-2005, Possibilities and challenges in the north, what we call the Northern Region Communication, as the Bondevik II Government presented, we can read the following, and I quote what was then the Left's policy: ‘The potential for new findings in the Barents Sea is good New findings could lead to further developments outside Troms’. [[...]] When the setting for this message was presented on 9 June last year, the left was for oil extraction in Troms, but on 8 June this year, when the setting was presented in the present case, they were against. What is the reason why the Left has turned this case around in 364 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e744	The left has always said that the advice and recommendations given to us in the management plan are to be given decisive importance in determining the areas to be opened up to activity and the areas to be petroleum-free zones. It's based on the principle that we've made our choices. This means that we follow the technical recommendations in the areas where we propose that there should be petroleum-free zones. As can be seen from the proposal, it is primarily linked to the Lofoten and the Vesterål, because we hoped that there could be a minimum of what a compromise with the government parties should contain. Because we have noticed that SV has been bastant that a prerequisite for a balanced arrangement was that there had to be some petroleum-free areas. That's why I concentrated on the Lofoten and the Vesterål in that context, to form the basis for support from the two out of three government parties that share our views on this matter. I can assure the representative of the Workers' Party that the most predictable thing in the debate we now have on petroleum-free zones is that we are going to be on the barricades at the next crossroads of the position we are fighting for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e751	I said earlier in the Chamber that the management plan is a real compromise. That means it's hurting everyone who's been there. I have also publicly said which point pains SV the most. What is alarming about the treatment in Stortinget and today's debate is that on the point of environmental which has hurt us the most, the Left and Christian People's Party has also agreed with the Government. What I think was the most difficult environmental to accept on the basis of professional criteria are the oil drillings that are going to happen close to the Finnmark coast, and the ones that are going to happen on the Tromsøflaket. They have the Christian People's Party and the Left Eclatant jump into the notes, and no one has mentioned it in the debate. Of course, I could be happy about that. But is it because, in a way, there are real conflicts of interest that the Left does not dare to go in, that here it's just easy to refer to the Lofoten and the West Pole, which everyone agrees with, and then you don't take the real thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e758	I thank you for this angle, because it gives me an opportunity to point out again an area where the Left and Christian People's Party is responsible for a more environmentally friendly policy than the SV and the other government parties. We tried with a formulation when it was at least Goliath was going to stress that the work currently being done to map the resources was not going to automatically open up for development, that it was going to be an open process, with an open outcome. I see that as an outstretched hand to the government parties to get a formulation in an area where large parts of the environmental movement now fear that the crash from SV and the other government parties in the case of oil activity in the north will lead to that there will not be a real assessment of the Goliath project when it comes to treatment. It shows that we are also consistent in our policies in this area and are on a more offensive line than SV does.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e763	The representative of Kvassheim addressed the issue of the publication of environmental advice in his statement. If I am not completely wrong, it was precisely the government of his party that kept this information from the public. I would like to ask Kvassheim if he can guarantee the Norwegian people that it will be the Left and Christian People's Party that imposes on Ivar Kristiansen, Børge Brende and Right one of their greatest defeats, if they in government will join in on the proposals that the Left here put themselves as guarantors behind. Finally, Kvassheim was occupied by the slide flight carried out by the Centre Party. I have also noted with interest that the Left has done about the same thing, you were in the previous period against activity in the Barents Sea, during this period you are in favour. So my question is, where is this going to end?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e770	First of all, with secrecy: it is right that the Workers' Party established the practice, which was continued by subsequent governments, that information in the context of the concession rounds was exempt from disclosure. It lamented the Left and the work against both in position and in opposition. I'm glad that the change that has taken place has contributed to the transparency of these processes. What we have done in addition to fighting for this in government and opposition is to make sure that changes in the disclosure law mean that there will be transparency in documents from underlying agencies, so this is in place. With regard to the Left’s point of view, it is right that we have gone from a position where we were opposed to activity in the north – and that is where we distinguish ourselves from SV, which is still opposite everything in the north – to open up a balanced development of activity and protection. It is reflected in the document, and that is the basis on which our policies are to be based, in this period and in the periods ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e777	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e780	The size is currently examining the first regional management plan for the marine environment in a Norwegian sea area. The Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten have unique natural values and large renewable fishing resources. There are large populations of cod, hyss, herring and solder, as well as coral reefs and bird mountains of international value. We must take care of this! At the same time, this is a sea area where we expect considerable activity in the future. The extraction of oil and gas, the transport of oil from Russia along the coast and increasing traffic by cruise ships will be the main activities. The challenge is therefore to be a leader, so that we ensure the maintenance of the good environmental status by strengthening the management of the marine environment. This is an important reason why the Government has chosen to start with a management plan for the Barents Sea. The approach to the management of the marine environment presented by the Government in St.meld. No 8, is a preliminary work in an international context. The management plan is also a milestone in establishing a comprehensive ecosystem-based management of all Norwegian seas, as committed by Norway in the Johannesburg Declaration of 2002. The government has as its objective: The management of the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten shall facilitate the sustainable use of the areas and resources for the benefit of the region and society as a whole. The management plan identifies particularly valuable and vulnerable areas: these are areas that have a significant impact on biodiversity and biological production across the sea. The areas are well professionally documented, with an agreed professional basis. Possible adverse effects may have long-term effects. Therefore, these areas are given a high level of protection in relation to human influences in the Government's proposal. Important measures here are to proceed cautiously with the petroleum industry and to ensure safe maritime transport and sustainable fisheries. The Government’s proposal for a framework for the petroleum activities in the sea area takes account of this fact. The proposal provides protection for particularly valuable and vulnerable areas along the coast and other areas with the same status. At the same time, the proposal provides for foreseeable framework conditions for the petroleum activity. The Government’s solution has therefore found a good balance between the environmental and petroleum considerations. Some of the other important challenges ahead are the reduction of long-range transport pollution into the area, the further development of sustainable fisheries, the provision of safe maritime transport and ensuring that we meet the key knowledge needs. The northern regions act as an outlet for pollutants transported here by sea and air flows. The environmental toxins have harmful effects on seabirds and polar bears. This is a global problem, and the Government will therefore strengthen Norway's leading role in international environmental work through systematic knowledge building on the effects of pollutants and through new initiatives in international forums such as the Stockholm Convention. The government will further strengthen efforts to ensure biodiversity. The fisheries management must be further developed, inter alia: by setting management targets and strategies for several fish stocks that are commercially exploited. In particular, the government will focus on stopping illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Ship traffic is the highest risk factor associated with acute oil pollution and it is therefore important that the risk of acute oil pollution from ships remains low. The Government has therefore applied to the United Nations Maritime Organisation (IMO) for the establishment of required navigational managers outside the territorial waters. This will prevent accidents at sea and allow more time for emergency measures, while ensuring the transparency and control of the movement of vessels. We have extensive knowledge of the Barents Sea-Lofoten sea area. At the same time, we have identified and prioritised significant knowledge needs in the plan. In response to the knowledge needs, the government will introduce a more coordinated monitoring system for assessing the state of ecosystems. Monitoring the marine environment will provide a good basis for proper decisions and actions in the future. Effective monitoring requires adequate monitoring of sea areas. The government is now giving priority to monitoring the prevalence of seabirds through the project SEAPOP, and monitoring the seabed in the most valuable and vulnerable areas of the management plan area through the project MAREANO. How important the mapping is, we got evidence of a very recent incident when the Marine Research Institute reported a wrecked seabed on Tromsøfladet. Not only did they find the deep beam tracks across the entire area, they also found wires and parts of trawl bags. This is an area we wanted to take care of because of the rich and ecologically important fungus fauna. Now they're asking if it's already too late for parts of this area. It is therefore high time that we started monitoring Norwegian sea areas. The management plan covers the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea. The government wants the entire maritime area to be guaranteed overall governance in the future. The Government therefore proposes to strengthen cooperation with Russia on a number of points, in particular in relation to the new Norwegian-Russian marine environment group under the Norwegian-Russian Environment Commission. The government attaches great importance to the fact that we can't rest on the laurels. Through a professional forum, a monitoring group and a risk forum, a more coordinated follow-up shall be ensured. Interest groups shall be involved in the work through a reference group. This shall be a living management plan, in which systematic knowledge acquisition and flexible follow-up ensure that activities in the area do not threaten the natural basis. The diverse and productive marine environment must be ensured for the future. This is also how we ensure the potential for continued value creation for our descendants. I am pleased that the Committee in its position supports the steps taken by the Government in the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. This will also form the basis for the further work of this government on the management of other Norwegian sea areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e826	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e829	The theme I have addressed earlier without having received a satisfactory answer, so I try again, now at the highest level. The issue of the impact assessment of Northland VII, Troms II and Nordland VI has been discussed many times, and is that which is largely a unanimous political wish from the states of North Norway, it is that one can at least carry out an impact assessment, without one having thus concluded in advance that it should result in an opening or not – that the impact assessment must conclude. We have seen that impact assessments have been carried out before on the Norwegian base, without it having resulted in opening. The question then arises: what is the environmental justification for not being able to carry out an impact assessment of Northland VII and Troms II, and what is the environmental justification for implementing seismics on, for example: Northland VII, but not Northland VI?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e836	It is true that the impact assessment under the Petroleum Act – as the representative is also concerned – is carried out for the purpose of oil extraction, although it is quite correct, as the representative says, that there is not necessarily any automatic way of doing so. But it's for oil extraction. Then we've said in this plan that we don't want oil extraction now, because we need to have some knowledge about Northland VII and Troms II. It has been especially related to seabirds, and it has been linked to the seabed and coral reefs. Now we're going to acquire that knowledge. In the case of Northland VI, we have said quite explicitly that there should be no petroleum activity there. This is an area where we already have a lot of knowledge. So it's not like the knowledge holes are everywhere. There's a lot of knowledge, and we have so much knowledge that we can say it's not relevant with petroleum activities there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e843	There is a large area of the management plan, and there are many themes that it could have been exciting to raise. But the Council of State raised this point with the fact that we may have been operating on the seabed that we – as the Council of State itself said – may have destroyed forever, and the Council of State referred to the Evening Post's lookup this week. On the part of the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have challenged the Government in the position, asking it to ‘assess to temporarily protect the areas designated as highly probable valuable bottomhabitat areas against bottom radiation now’. On the basis of the post that the Council of State has now made, and with the heavy she put on this, can I expect the Council of State to assess it, and that it might also be a positive assessment – that some areas already need temporary protection before the large programme is closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e850	One of the most important steps we take with the management plan is to be knowledge-based. That's why the government has also prioritised a lot of work on knowledge mapping. We have knowledge of a lot of things, but one of the areas where we have a big flaw is what's really about the seabed and the coral reefs. That's why it's high time we started mapping. In the case of temporary protection, it is per. today not the question that we will be able to confirm. However, as Minister, I make continuous assessments of both the situation and the measures that need to be taken to improve the situation of the natural and environmental state. So we make assessments continuously, and of course it includes all types of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e857	In the past, the Minister for the Environment has told Stortinget that it was not desirable or possible to adjust the IMO’s application in respect of the route of navigation so that it remained in line with the management plan. She could use the opportunity today to explain why this was still done. She didn't. The Christian People's Party and the Left have proposed that the Government introduce zero emissions for petroleum-related land installations. To the press, a representative of Bellona says that it would be scandalous if the SV and the Central Party today voted against this proposal. Does the Council of State consider that this proposal on zero emissions for petroleum-related land installations is a good proposal which could be of good support to her in further work and which would make it clear that a high and predictable level of ambition is required in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e866	First a few comments on that with sailing trails. It is quite right, as the representative of Kvassheim says, that we have submitted a corrected application to the IMO regarding the boundary of the sailing path. It is primarily for the sake of new information related to fisheries issues that we have done so – it is possible that the Minister for Fisheries will also come up with more details later, but that is the main consideration. This makes it possible for us to keep this combination – to have a route of navigation below the monitoring system, taking into account, among other things. the fishing interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e871	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e874	The management plan deals with the sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, and with the expected North Sea bet that two governments have set up, this plan is a good document for the specific policy to be pursued for the northern regions. The management plan shall clarify the overall framework for marine activities and facilitate coexistence between different industries such as fisheries, maritime transport and petroleum activities within the framework of ecosystem considerations. Fisheries in these marine areas shall continue to be managed in a manner that ensures the livelihood of our future generations. At the same time, culture and industry, tourism and tourism should be further developed. It shall also be the petroleum activity. When we know that 25 pst. of undiscovered resources of oil and gas assumed to be in Arctic areas, it goes without saying that these resources should be put into use. We need more feet in industrial development in the northern part of the country. Then we are totally dependent on being able to use the natural resources we have. This can help young people to remain in the country. Through the Government Declaration and the Management Plan, we have had a postponement in both Nordland VI and VII and Troms II until 2009–2010. I was disappointed, and many with me. But we northerners are not known to give up, because with the signals in the management plan that no areas should be defined as petroleum-free zones, and no restrictions have been imposed away from land, we regard this as a postponement while strengthening the knowledge base. I am pleased that the Government is not pursuing the same policy as the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then there had been lasting protection from the Lofoten to the Barents Sea, and the North and South Troms had been taken by the oil map. I wonder if we would have had any management plan at all if the Bondevik II government had continued. Everyone knows that Sponheim of the Left has stated that without petroleum-free zones outside the Lofoten and the Western Pole had left the Government. How would the Right turn out of that situation? Nordland has a big challenge, and we're going to take it. We need to build up knowledge of both natural areas and technologies and develop them together. This is best done in our own part of the country through the R & D environments we have. We have to be prepared when 2010 comes. The Narvik University has been conducting technological education for over 50 years. It educates engineers at all levels and also has Russian and Chinese students. North Technology, co-located with the university, is a technical-natural research institute intended to be a central element of R & D relevant to the north. We also have the College of Bodø, which is about to become a university. It has good research environments and has already established cooperation with Russia on education and training programmes in energy. Northern VII is one of the most promising exploration areas on Norwegian pedestals, with great potential for detecting oil and gas deposits. It is therefore important to use the period up to 2010 in relation to the environment, but also in relation to what a development in this area will provide in terms of employment and value added. Some claim that the petroleum industry will create jobs in Northern Ireland. It is therefore worth noting that the Ministry of Local Affairs will launch a project to identify the ring-fence of petroleum activity on land in North Norway. But it is also important that industry itself is aware of creating ring-effects locally. This can be proven before 2010 by the activities that are imminent further south in Northern Ireland, for example: through the development and operation of Skarv/Idun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e902	This is a sad day for North Norway, and in particular it's a sad day for Northland and Troms. The rapporteur of the case, Tore Nordtun, said in his speech that North Norway is the national part of the possibilities. It is therefore sad that this day will remain as the day when the Workers' Party allowed environmental fanatics in SV to win over reason and thus refuse a whole part of the country to take advantage of the opportunities that lie there. When I say it's a sad day for the people of North Norway, I'm talking not only about those who vote at the Advance Party, but also about all those who believed in the Labour Party election promises about oil and gas extraction. When I say that this is a sad day, it is not only because oil and gas extraction is being pushed far out in time, but also because this decision helps to kill the optimism and positiveness that was spreading around the country after the population has seen the impact of the Snow White Development on the region: more direct jobs, more jobs in the supplier industry and more jobs through the subcontractors. We already see the result. The removal after the government proclaimed its position, has already shot speed. In several coastal communities, such as: Bø in Northern Ireland, where the optimism and confidence that oil and gas extraction outside the Lofoten and the West eels was to be started, thereby providing more jobs, had stagnated the relocation. The decision taken today is a blow to the face of these small municipalities, and therefore the inhabitants and most municipal government representatives are also raging, regardless of party affiliation. I hear that the government parties, and then especially the Workers' Party, are fossils away from their election vows. Yes, they even call the decision positive. What the Workers' Party calls positive is only perceived by the environmental fanatics of SV and Left as one win. The many people I've spoken to from North Norway, and among them are municipal government representatives from both the Workers' Party and the Center Party, see the decision as a betrayal of North Norway and as another nail in the chest. It is claimed by the opponents of oil and gas extraction that the risk of pollution is so high that if pollution occurs, the consequences are so great that extraction must be prohibited. In particular, it was claimed from SV. In this case, it is not about believing what the future will bring, but to a large extent about what experience we have from oil and gas extraction in the North Sea over 30-40 years. It is my claim that the few emissions that have been, are not measurable today, and have had no negative impact on life in the sea. The oil industry, like the aviation industry, is probably the safest part of the business we have. These two have clear similarities. There is a risk that operations will go wrong, there are major consequences if things go wrong, and both have therefore taken precautions, so that things will not go wrong. Every day there are thousands of planes in the air above us, with hundreds of thousands of people. If these planes were to fall down, it would be a disaster that would far exceed an oil spill. There are thousands of aircraft that are up there every day and pollute with their emissions, even if they wouldn't fall down. Nevertheless, I hear no one, not even in SV, who wants to ban air traffic. Now this is not a call for SV and the Government to put all the planes on the ground, but a picture of two types of industry operating in fields where an accident will have dramatic consequences. But yet there are just these, with their focus on safety, which have fewer accidents. When I used to talk about the people of North Norway being positive about oil and gas extraction, I'm building this on things I've talked to people about, but also on polls that have been conducted, and that show that there's a large majority that require oil and gas extraction as soon as possible. Yes, even fishermen, who have been the greatest opponents in the past, have turned around, and the atmosphere is much more positive for extraction. More and more fishermen are out in the media and say straight away that if we are to have people living in the districts of the north, the oil industry must come as soon as possible. And what's really interesting is that after the ringing effects of Snow White have come for one day, several S.B. and centre party peaks have also been out and demanded extraction. Finally, I would say that everyone wants safety around oil extraction, not least the oil companies themselves. Over 40 years in the North Sea, they have proven that they can deliver safe production. Now it's time for North Norway to have its share of the cake, and to participate in the value creation that has taken place in oil extraction in other parts of the country. We want that participation as soon as possible, and not in 10-20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e928	A few years ago, one of our co-founders said at a meeting in Kirkenes that north-eastern politics is horn music, balalaika and a little culture. This claim has been put to shame by the Stoltenberg government, and the nation has taken a quantum leap to offensively meet all the challenges we see in the north. Oil and gas extraction will be the dominant driver of future developments in the Barents Sea, which will also have consequences for Norwegian policy in the north. Employment in the traditional industries of North Norway, such as fisheries and aquaculture, has fallen substantially in recent years. There is therefore a need for new activities and new industries that, together with existing ones, can provide a robust basis for the settlement. During a 10- to 15-year period, the petroleum industry will become a new basic industry in Finnmark. At Melkøya outside Hammerfest, the first stage of the Snow White construction is about to be completed. Preparatory planning takes place for a step two, and we already talk about a train three. The promising findings in the Goliath field open for the landing of oil. In Northern Norway, there is considerable attention to landing and the ringing effects it may cause. On the Russian side, progress is now at a rather high pace. The planned expansion of the Shtokman field and Russian oil transport through the Barents Sea may have an impact on the development of Finnmark. Increased activity along the Murman coast and the expansion of the oilfields in the Pechora Sea is a new option for the Norwegian petroleum industry, subject to the establishment of mutual cooperation between Norwegian and Russian business environments. I am therefore pleased that the government is adding to the escalating preparedness along the Norwegian coast as maritime transport and other activities increase. In this regard, I would like to quote one of the leaders of the Norwegian Polar Institute, Bjørn Fossli Johansen, who, in meeting the Energy and Environment Committee a few months ago, concluded that the collapse of the Norwegian-Russian fisheries cooperation is the greatest threat to the Barents Sea. Several Nordic authorities stress that long-term industrial and competence development and the maximisation of ring-effects in the region are a prerequisite for petroleum activities in the north. Given this premise, oil and gas extraction is strongly supported by the population, and also by the members of the Fisheries Team. The potential for new societal and industrial development is strongly emphasised, and there are high expectations of what the region and the nation can achieve from the ring-fenced effects of petroleum development, in terms of both competence and qualification measures, industrial development and infrastructure. It is therefore so good that a joint committee decides that a strategic commitment to infrastructure in the region is necessary. Furthermore, a joint committee says that, in the Committee's view, such a commitment to the necessary infrastructure will be a natural part of the North Region Initiative and a necessary measure for the successful development of petroleum in North Norway. From Finnmark's side, we are very pleased that the areas south and west of the Snow White and Goliath fields are reopened. This will strengthen the resource base of the two fields and ensure the long-term and efficient use of the infrastructure in the area. The removal of previous drilling time limitations in large parts of the Barents Sea South will also contribute to higher activity levels and more efficient operations. The adventure of Snow White continues, and a new one comes about Tower Rose. The new adventure of the Tornerose field is under writing. In line with opinions both from the Nord-Norway County Committee and from the county councils of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, attention will be paid to the value creation and the ring-effect perspective. Petroleum activities in the north will provide a strong growth impetus not only in terms of the number of new jobs, but also in terms of increased optimism, improved infrastructure, increased private investment and increased value creation. Petroleum activities will facilitate the establishment of knowledge-based jobs and help make highly educated young people move back to the region. This is gonna be good!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e959	The Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten and the Western Sea have significant natural resources. From nature we have been so lucky that the cod has chosen this area as its food and growing area. This gives rise to a significant fishing activity, which has been the bearer of the Nordic community for generations. But this does not stop. In addition to the amazing fishing resources we have in this area, large petroleum resources have also been detected just off our coast. This adventure started in the south, and we've been developing the petroleum business for a 40-year period. This has contributed to significant value creation both nationally and regionally. It may be worth noting that during these 40 years we have developed two internationally competitive oil companies, and at the same time we have a supplier industry that is now exporting nearly 50 billion kroner a year, while also having a lot of activity on Norwegian base. The adventure we've seen in the south is going to continue in the north as well. We believe, and it is assumed, that there may be significant petroleum resources in the Barents Sea and in the area outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. The Oil Directorate estimates that about one third of the remaining undetected petroleum resources on Norwegian soil are in this area. Some believe that petroleum activity is a major threat to rich environmental and natural resources. Of course, there are challenges related to the management of petroleum resources. At times, there will be challenges in combining the development of petroleum activities and the protection of the environment — let there be no doubt about it. However, the way in which this is handled is through active and predictable management, where the different interests need to be balanced. That's what I think the government has done in a good way through the management plan. The main environmental values and the impact of the various sectors on the environment have been identified by a comprehensive investigation process. The frameworks for the petroleum activity take particular account of the main environmental and fisheries areas, either by not allowing activities in these areas or by imposing specific restrictions, such as: exploration time limits. Through this work, the Government has gained more knowledge about the consequences of oil activities and more knowledge about the resources available. The environment is taken into account by not opening the most vulnerable areas. Account is taken of the fishing industry, including: in relation to coastal areas and in relation to what we did in the 19th concession round by not assigning the More blocks, as the fishing industry had strong objections to doing so. Clear and predictable frameworks are essential for an industry that invests significantly with capital long before they receive a return on these investments. Through the management plan, the Government has now established a framework for the petroleum activities that will facilitate positive development in the coming years. The development we see in the Barents Sea today is both encouraging and exciting. In Hammerfest there is a significant growth in snow-white development. We see that local companies actually deliver significantly more to the project than they initially assumed they would. This also shows that the Nordic business and supply industries are on the road and are now qualifying for future tasks. The findings made on Goliath and the newly granted extraction permits in the 19th round also facilitate an increase in activity in the coming years. The framework provided for the petroleum activity through the management plan provides good opportunities to develop the Barents Sea into a significant petroleum province in the future. Of course, this shall take place within an environmentally sound framework. Such a positive development will result in value creation, it will result in employment, and it will give rise to optimism in North Norway. The government will take environmental considerations seriously – and has done so through the plan. The government will make it possible for us to have the greatest possible ring-effects of the activity that is now coming northwards. We have given the industry predictability and long-term frameworks to work under, among other things. through, for example: removing the drilling time limitation in parts of the Barents Sea in order to have a full-year activity, within an environmentally sound framework. We gain more knowledge about the areas that we know too little about, and the vulnerable areas. And we've given companies the predictability they need to develop the industry further north within environmentally sound frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e981	Previous speakers from the government constellation give the impression that an impact assessment does not include knowledge acquisition. So you have to do bird counting, seismics and a little bit of other things before you can do an impact assessment. This is misleading, and it is also not in line with the signal that workers' party representatives for the northern regions joined in the election campaign. However, I register the government's unwillingness against an impact assessment. I'd like to know a little bit about the reason, when you're talking about impact assessment. What knowledge gaps exist today, for example: in relation to Northland VII, which will not be covered by an impact assessment, but which must therefore be covered first? Will not, for example, avian census is part of an impact assessment? Are there other areas that the Council of State believes need to be highlighted, which will not be highlighted in an impact assessment, since he does not wish to carry out an impact assessment now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e988	An impact assessment under the Petroleum Act is the steps taken to open an area of petroleum activity. Contrary to what the representative said earlier in the debate today, there are no examples of an impact assessment without the areas being opened. It has not been clearly stated that all areas in which impact assessments are carried out are open, but parts of these areas have been opened up in any context. So you actually have no example of an impact assessment without opening up this area to petroleum activity in the next round. The government doesn't want to do this in this game. The government wants to gain more knowledge of this area so that when it comes to 2010 and has the first evaluation of the management plan, it will have the most reliable basis for making the assessments to be made by the Government in 2010 in relation to the vulnerable area we are talking about here. The professional bodies have agreed that this is the most difficult area in relation to the environmental perspective and in relation to fishing activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e995	On November 14, last year, the Council of State, Enoksen, stood ahead of three full-pages in Today’s Business as the freshly frozen champion of increased oil activity in the north. The title included: ‘Says no to SV’s heart matters’. ‘Will give full gas in the north’ was the main title. It says: ‘On the contrary, he says that the red-green government can become a greater driver of oil activity in the northern regions than the previous government.’ The result today shows that this was not the case. What comes of the fact that the newlywed has not fought hard enough in his own government? The result was that it was not supposed to be. It was SV's heart issues that won and won. Does the Council of State understand the deep disappointment that people in the north are left with after the many broken promises from central peoples of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1009	No, I have absolutely no understanding of that. There is no reason for the people of the north to feel disappointed. The people of the north are more dependent than any other on taking the necessary environmental considerations in relation to the development of the activity that we are talking about here, that can become important for this part of the country, and that the Government will facilitate. However, it is an activity which must be balanced against the fishing industry, where necessary environmental considerations must be taken into account in vulnerable areas. The government has arranged for this, and we will also work to develop it further in the future. The representative Kristiansen is well-known that headlines and ingresses in the media can become so numerous. I've never seen myself as a newly-breathed follower of activity in the north, and then I think it's actually also that the undersigned and the representative Kristiansen put far different things in the concept of full speed in the north. Yes, the Government intends to facilitate balanced development, not least where the precise purpose of creating activity on land is also to be taken into account. This means that a step-by-step approach to activity expansion in the north is the sensible way to do this, so that the business community in the north can also qualify as much as possible for tasks on Norwegian soil and contribute to what this business has of knowledge and qualifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1016	This government has put up more petroleum activity, and it requires more oil protection, as the Christian People's Party sees it. This also points out Veritas in its 2004 risk analysis. It opens up the Barents Sea and opens up oil activities along the coast of Finnmark much closer to the country than has been recommended by professional bodies. That is what the Christian People's Party believes is very unfortunate. It is opened without dimensional or upgrading the oil protection equipment accordingly. Does the Council of State think that we already have a good enough oil protection preparedness, adapted to the challenges facing us as a country in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1023	The issue of oil protection is an important issue. It is possible that the Minister for Fisheries will address this matter in more detail. Before an oil company obtains agreement from the authorities to drill, such consent is also linked to emergency requirements, i.e. oil protection requirements. This means that the extent of the emergency requirements is determined by conditions such as proximity to countries, particularly environmentally sensitive areas and other industrial interests to be taken into account. It is therefore that drilling will not be authorised if the authorities believe that this drilling cannot be carried out safely, even if the companies have been granted extraction permission in the area of which they are talking. Increased activity will mean that the authorities will also impose stricter requirements on the company's preparedness, while, of course, we too, on the part of the authorities, must pay attention to the oil protection preparedness for which we as the authority are responsible. But I would like to stress that there is an interaction between authorities and companies, where preparedness is expanded as the business takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1033	The biggest government party is not to recognize from the election campaign. The taboo Workers' Party started at the presentation of the management plan, we have been confirmed here today. The Prime Minister's many assurances that it would not be on the Workers' Party when it came to ensuring a high level of activity in the north prove to be of zero value. His conduct at the NHO annual conference comes after this in a strange light. Yes, in fact, the Prime Minister himself should have been here today to explain and defend himself. I actually believed that the Prime Minister after the NHO conference would put his foot down and show who was the boss. But also here it is clear that the manager has allowed others to take the lead. Many in the north are now wondering about the Prime Minister’s shift in focus – from ‘hands on’ to ‘hands off’ in the petroleum policy. It is alarming that the Workers' Party today is under attack on the Right when everyone knows that the Workers' Party will actually do much more than the compromise it is forced to make. The debate here shows, in my opinion, that the Workers' Party is on the defensive and in serious contempt with its own people and voters in North Norway. Of course, North Norway should have more legs to stand on and more than oil and gas to live on. But we're barely running. And when it comes to putting in place a real foundation for the petroleum industry in the north, this management plan could have contributed to it. There's more to it than beautiful speeches. We must make an offensive effort to further develop the fisheries and aquaculture industry, tourism and Arctic agriculture, which I believe is underestimated. The point is that we need more legs to stand on, and then it's not useful to replace one leg with another leg. For this reason, development opportunities need to be provided through higher activity and search activities in new areas where the findings are considered particularly good, both in the Barents Sea and beyond the North and Troms. In this way, we can provide the best basis for building a solid North Norwegian oil industry. Right-wing predictions in the election campaign that the party SV with a red-green majority would get hand on the steering wheel and prevent petroleum activity in the north have really turned on. At least the working party is not recognized. It is alarming when the Workers' Party will also not support comments that the gradual increase, after all, comes into search activity in the north and as a result of the start of production at Snow White in 2007 must lead to increased government activity in the region. Unfortunately, many suggest that the formerly so broad an oil policy alliance in the United Kingdom is now history. The working party has jumped off and later now significant parts of North Norway. The Workers' Party owes North Norway answers to the following questions: Why does the party shade away when the Right and Advance Party express a clear expectation that the authorities are now responsible for ensuring greater ring-effects of oil and gas activities in the Norwegian and Barents Sea as petroleum activities increase? New challenges in the north require authorities to focus on being ahead of the necessary measures. From an environmental point of view, it is therefore essential to strengthen peer review so that supervisory activities will continue to be adequately carried out in the future. This is a responsibility of authority, and it's a natural development that we get an activity growth in that part of the country where the need for supervision will increase in the years to come. The oil environments in Harstad have national top competence in the Barents Sea. Supervisory activities in the north will require close interaction with the Oil Directorate and the National Barn Sea Group of Statoil in Harstad. The Right Party and the Advance Party have therefore pointed specifically to Harstad and asked the Government to investigate how best to discharge its Petroleum Supervision and Supervision duties when petroleum activity increases in the northern sea areas, either by setting up a branch office in Harstad or by other means. It is with considerable wonder that I note that the government parties will not support the proposal. I know that many have been engaged: the Labour Party rapporteur in Harstad and the County Council in Troms – and this week has a unanimous assembly in Troms' appeal to the government parties to turn around when voting in the Stortinget today. I have noticed that co-workers from the Workers' Party in Troms have made some dubious attempts to explain that they will vote against the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. In business policy, we are committed to compensating for distance disadvantages. In this case, Troms and Nordland experience a different kind of distance disadvantage, namely the distance from the 2005 election campaign. It is not easy to understand how the Workers' Party, with the Prime Minister at its head, has jumped from more focused election campaigns on exploration activities outside major parts of the country. Frustration and despair are great in the north. From the Right, we do not conceal that the least common multiple represented by the management plan is not ambitious enough to meet the plans and visions of both the previous and this government for the development of the northern regions. The management plan could indicate how North Norway would seriously move into the oil age and lead to the positive development of the northern regions. This was not the case, and it must be the primary responsibility of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1067	Throughout history, people along the coast have been harvesting from the sea. Norway’s wealth and well-being are largely based on the opportunities and resources that the sea has given us, in terms of fishing, maritime transport and rich petroleum resources. Some of our greatest prospects are also in the sea and in the north. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten is an important document in order to continue to be able to carry on traditional business activities and to start a new one, within a sustainable framework. The fish in the Barents Sea are managed in a sustainable manner, including: in view of the fact that we have been conducting good marine research for many decades and have achieved good cooperation with the other countries that manage and harvest the populations. But there is also a dark cloud in the sky. The main threat to sustainable management of the marine resources in the Barents Sea is illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing. That's why the government has prioritised the fight against overfishing very high, and we work on many levels to get rid of it. Some of the first government did after it joined last autumn was to strengthen the budget of the Coast Guard and the Fisheries Directorate, so that they can step up their control efforts. However, Norway cannot control overfishing alone. Therefore, measures against illegal fishing were a major theme in the Norwegian-Russian fisheries negotiations last autumn. It is a theme that has been followed up and will continue to be followed up with the Russian authorities. It is also important that we have good cooperation with the EU and with EU countries, because it is important markets for the fish that come from the Barents Sea. And it is important to prevent the illegal caught fish from entering these markets. A joint working group between Norway and the EU Commission has been set up and a landing control agreement has also been signed with Portugal, which is a breakthrough. The need for more effective port State control has also been put on the agenda, through the UN system and through the regional fisheries organisations. In the coming period, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast will cooperate with the industry in order to establish good tracking systems, so that the consumer can certainly find out whether the fish in the fishing disk is caught legally. Oil protection is a great deal of space both in the management plan, in the Committee's comments and also in the debate here today, and that is not so strange. I would like to stress that the most important part of our readiness is to help prevent accidents from happening. The AIS system, our monitoring system, is an important tool in this regard. The same is true of the new traffic monitoring centre, which will be in place on 1 January next year, and of the routes mentioned in the management plan. As mentioned in the plan, the Government has submitted to the IMO a proposal on the heading of approximately 30 nautical miles from the coast. The location of the flight path shall take into account conditions such as: safe time for the navigation response of the assistance petroleum activity and the fisheries; The position of the member must necessarily vary with the baseline and other natural conditions, and account must be taken of the coverage of the AIS to 30 nautical miles. The proposal on the pilot-in-command was sent to the IMO on 12 April of this year, but due to new information on the importance of fishing grounds not found in the consultation round, an adjusted proposal was sent to the IMO at the end of May. In the amended proposal, both the northern and southern members are further away from countries outside Troms and West Finland. This means that both members go outside the fishing grounds in West Finland, and therefore also outside the Goliath field. In this context, the AIS chain of the Coastal Plant will be reinforced by three new reception stations in West Finland, in order to keep the traffic centres of the Coastal Works under control. In order to ensure that the Norwegian proposal for a Head of Navigation is consistent with the regulation of traffic in the Russian part of the Barents Sea, the member has not been adjusted off the coast of East Finland. As in so many other areas affecting the northern seas, we must also cooperate here with the other countries in the region that have interests in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1105	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that the Government realized that it bombed with the first application to the IMO for fairway restrictions. Governments are talking about the fact that the sea has been harvested for centuries. Today, not only legal actors are harvesting this sea, it was also the state councils inside. There is a lot of illegal and unregistered fishing. Many suggest that illegal, unregistered fishing in these days is record large. We have already been confirmed that the toolbox that the Council's colleague Eriksen spoke about in the election campaign has become a jewelry box. And then I wonder: What concrete measures does the Council of State have for Pedersen to prevent further increases in illegal fishing in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1112	The illegal fishing in the Barents Sea did not start at the government change. It has been going on for years, without significant political attention. This has been taken into account by the new government. We have strengthened control efforts by a significant number of millions, and we have called for international cooperation to overcome this, because Norway cannot solve that challenge alone. We have agreed with Russia on a number of concrete measures. We'll follow that up now, and they'll be implemented. We are cooperating with the EU, and we are working within the UN to prevent the illegally caught fish from entering the markets. We solve that through landing control agreements, we solve that through port state controls, and we do that by preventing ships engaged in illegal fishing from accessing ports. As I also mentioned in my article, we are working on establishing proper tracking systems. Consumers would have legally caught fish if they had the choice. They must know when they come to the shop that the fish lying there is legally fished. We shall contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1119	It is historic when an aggregate accumulation today opens up the opening of the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea to oil and gas activities. Unfortunately, it is not a total collapse which today decides that oil protection equipment should be stepped up corresponding to the increased oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. I think that's quite incredible, and it's actually quite irresponsible. I would like to hear why we cannot vote in favour of the two concrete proposals that the opposition parties have promoted. One is about strengthening the tug capacity, so you get a response time of six hours, and a maximum of twelve hours. What is the reason why you do not vote for this? Does the Council intend to implement this, regardless of what the Storting decides here? The second concerns our proposal to strengthen oil protection in line with the development of oil and gas in the north. Why can't the government parties support these two proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1126	I do not agree with the reality description presented by the representative Burnde here. Firstly, current oil protection preparedness is based on the analyses carried out in the context of the Storing Communication ‘On the safe side — maritime safety and oil protection preparedness’. Today's oil preparedness is satisfactory in relation to the activity we have today. Then we're going to escalate the oil preparedness in line with the activity that's coming. But even if we open new areas of petroleum activity, it does not happen overnight. We have time to design demands for private actors, and we also have time to strengthen state preparedness. That's something we'll come back to in the annual budgets. In the case of towing boat standby, we have a state standby in the north with a response time of 10 hours. In addition, we get three private boats in place at the end of the year at Melkøya.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1138	Unfortunately, the government’s willingness to invest in oil protection was made visible as it was unable to support the ‘Clean Coast’ project of the Villmarks Fund, a contribution to mobilising civil society in emergency work. I am concerned about the further development. The Minister for the Environment asked me about the ambition of the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal for zero emissions from land-based petroleum plants. One of the reasons why the environmental movement wants such a decision is that it must be so strict that land-based petroleum facilities are not a threat to the marine environment and to fisheries resources. Does the Minister for Fisheries agree that in the case of petroleum installations on land, there must be zero emissions, as proposed by the Left and Christian People's Party today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1145	Firstly, in the case of the World Wilderness Fund beach area project, they have in fact received support from the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department, not to the extent they applied for. In parallel with this, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has set up a coastal zone project where we want to bring together the various actors in this arena – including municipalities, the NordNorsk Emergency Centre and the WWF – in order to have an overall organisation that can enter into force if the accident is first out. At the same time, I would like to stress that oil protection is made up of several different things. The most important thing is that we have systems in place to prevent accidents from happening. Beach area stand-by is the last part of that chain. As I said, the risk in the area today is low. We're going to build preparedness in line with the activity that's coming. Environmental requirements have never been as stringent as they are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1152	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1155	Let me start by saying that there is really more consensus in this matter that we are dealing with today than the debate might suggest. It's in many ways a relatively offensive plan. You agree very much. That's why it's a shame you can't get a larger majority than 87 representatives behind most of this plan. I remember the Djupedal State Council in the election campaign. He didn't just talk about him stopping the movement power from North Norway – he had to make sure that there were 40,000 new Nordics. State Council Pedersen has, since she entered the Department of Fisheries and Coast, talked about that she wants there to be light in the houses. I will refer to the municipality in which I was born and raised, namely the municipality of Øksne in the Vesterålen. It's one of the municipalities most people have moved from. It's a municipality right south of Northland VII. And I can say: this plan does not mean that there will be 40,000 new northerners, this plan does not provide light in the houses of the Lofoten and the Vestralen, and it does not stop the relocation from Øksnes and the municipalities around. The debate so far has been very much about oil. There's more than that in the Barents Sea. There are also rich fish resources. I'm very glad that State Council Pedersen talked a lot about it. Fishing has been the basis for the settlement in North Norway for thousands of years. Fish have been exported from the continent since the 1400s. Storgga, Northland VII, is one of the richest fishing areas in the region. It is clear that this makes many considerations to be taken into account. Thus, an impact assessment does not threaten the fish in Storegga outside the Western Sea and Lofoten. But it is quite clear that it is of the utmost importance that the fishing industry and the oil industry can cooperate on seismics, exploration drilling and production in these areas. It is not just the petroleum industry that can pose a potential threat to the natural environment in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea. Several seabird populations appear to have dramatic decreasing populations. I'm called Lomvi, the loon bird, the testicle and the sea sole, but also the crutch, which is perhaps the foremost character bird of North Norway – quite painful, you might say, sometimes, but still a character bird for the part of the country that also has strongly falling populations. That's why I'm very happy that SEAPOP continues its work, so we can figure out why these bird species have as dramatically decreasing populations as they do. We have to figure out what kind of grip is going on, and also the Progress Party is going to help save these populations. This is the case with the Royal Crab, which has been proposed and noted by the Advance Party. It's called an overall management plan, and there's a lot of writing about introduced species. The most dangerous of the introduced species in the area, the king crab, is rewritten correctly, but no action is presented in the plan for dealing with the king crab. I don't call that a whole plan. So I hope that the story will show that Tord Lien and the Progress Party were wrong in the debate on the spring 2006 management plan, and that the continued increase in the population of royal crabs that the administration and the majority of the population add does not have serious environmental consequences, that the management of the royal crab does not lead to the disappearance of the tares forest, and that sein, roeches, lots, etc. good grazing areas and spawning areas can still be found in the tares forest north of the Finnish coast. But it's an opportunity for me and the Progress Party to be right in this matter when we fear that the population of these fish species can be reduced and perhaps also disappear from the coast of Finnmark and Troms. Then it is disappointing that we see as little willingness to action by the Government and the majority as we do in this matter. I hope that the Government and the majority will dare to go further when the announced message of the royal crab comes to the Stortinget about – hopefully – not for long. Both fisheries and fish stocks are threatened by other factors as well. Such a threat is the possibility of massive oil spills in the event of a loss. If you get a situation where oil hits the coast, this will hit the industry for years because of the lack of and failure of sales. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government realized that they had bombed, when in their application to the IMO they asked for a fairway of up to 14 miles from land. The Progress Party supports the Government’s current position in this specific case, but the point of the whole fairway restriction is that it should take at least six hours from a vessel to have an engine failure and land. Then it is also a prerequisite that you get a tugboat in place within six hours. It's not the government willing to be with us, and it disappoints me. I am absolutely sure that SV is not familiar with the exact side of the matter. Although we do not now discuss South Norway and other parts of Norway, but North Norway down to Lofoten, I would like to say that I hope that the Government will soon come back to Stortinget and tell us how to secure oil protection also south of Røst. The Pedersen State Council noted that one of the biggest threats — if not the largest — to the fishing and fishing industry in the Barents Sea has been poached. We've heard a lot of talk from the Government about this. But I feel that we have seen little action so far. There has been some action, but I miss more concrete action – a tougher attitude from the Government on this matter. When pirate trawlers get to Norwegian ports and receive equipment, all the words about the fight against poaching become a little empty words. But I look forward to the government coming back with a tougher line in this area. Because it's like, for a year, the pst has stood for 20 pst. of the total taxation of the species of fish in the Barents Sea, and much may suggest that the figures in the last few years have increased and perhaps now have passed 30 pst., that 30 pst. are illegal and unregistered fishing. This is the theft of the legitimate actors, in line with other theft, and it must be taken seriously. The recipe is very simple: we have to increase military presence in the north, and then we have to be tough on those who cheat. And of course, as the Council of State says, we have to do it together with the EU and Russia. We must get an exclusion from all European ports, and perhaps we should start in Fredrikstad – which is, however, a Norwegian port. But not just to stand here and spread oaths and bile – I think I have been rather moderate – I will end by saying that this is not so terrible. A large majority agrees on very much. If we do something about the king crab and the situation of the reduced stocks of seabirds, and we get a proper oil protection system in place, and we get control of the barents, there are only two things that are not in place, and that disappoint me. One is that today we're going to have 87 large-scale representatives who are voting for the rough lines of this message, and then 82 are voting against it. It doesn't provide the necessary predictability that the industry in North Norway would need. But what saddens me most about that part of the country it's moving most people from – the Western Sea, the Lofoten and parts of the South Troms – is that the Western Sea and the South Troms have been sacrificed at the SV's environmental age in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1189	There was great tension in the management plan that Stortinget is dealing with today. Many said that it would be impossible for the government to come up with a unified solution in this big and demanding case. They were wrong. The government has reached a good compromise and a balanced solution. Some wanted a greater pace of petroleum activity, while others wanted the most protection. Today, the Storting adopts a plan with a good balance between just these considerations. The management plan is about how to manage our most important natural resources in the north, including: say oil, gas and fish, and how to do it in a long-term perspective. The purpose of the management plan is to facilitate value creation, while ensuring the environment and resources in a sound manner. In order to achieve this, the effects of petroleum activities, maritime transport and fisheries are linked. I believe that this plan provides the basis for new value creation and many coastal jobs based on good environmental technologies, strict business requirements and close monitoring. The overall management plan well weighs fisheries interests, energy interests and environmental concerns in the north. There will be petroleum activity in large and important areas of the Barents Sea outside Finnland and beyond the southern North. Important fields such as Snow White and Goliath must be further developed. All areas with granted exploration and extraction concessions, including the 19th concession round, shall continue to be subject to petroleum activities. The oil industry now has a predictable framework to deal with. This will provide a basis for increased value creation and employment across the country. No sea areas are permanently protected from petroleum activity, but the particularly vulnerable areas off the coast of the Lofoten, the Vestral and Troms are not opened to petroleum activity during the current flooding period. Several studies, geological and seismic studies are now to be carried out in these areas in order to strengthen the knowledge base. So Northland VII and Troms II are not closed to activity forever, but we recognize that these are areas we need to know more about before we move on and take new steps. Possible future oil and gas activities here must be carried out in safe co-existence with fisheries. If we can't do that, we'll fail. More knowledge will strengthen the basis for future decisions. The government’s management plan allows Norway to continue to show its way in the development of the marine fisheries and energy industry. The management plan is a milestone in the management of natural resources in Norwegian sea areas. The plan facilitates the further development of the fishing industry in interaction with other industries and emphasises the great importance of the fishing industry for value creation and employment for the northern part of the country, but also for the rest of the country. In Northern Norway, we build housing and employment on natural resources – fisheries, aquaculture, tourism and traditional industries. We're going to keep doing that, but through increased petroleum activity, we're also getting new opportunities for value creation and employment. It needs the county. Let me end by raising a slightly broader arctic perspective in today's debate. Climate change is a pervasive factor in the northern regions, and in a long-term perspective will be of great importance for life and activity in the northern regions. The major climate report, also known as the ACIA report, was launched at an Arctic ministerial meeting in November 2004. More than 300 researchers worked with the indigenous population in the Arctic to gather available materials for climate change in the Arctic. The results are presented in a report that is alarming in many areas and has been a major contributor to the climate debate in many Arctic countries. It is important that we in Norway support the further work in this field, including: with further monitoring of the Arctic climate and dissemination of the knowledge we already have to the population. From the fall Norway takes over the presidency of the Arctic Council. It gives us a good opportunity to focus on these challenges. Arctic countries must prepare for the changes that we know will come. Increasing temperatures will change the conditions of industrial activity both on land and at sea, thus also affecting the living conditions of humans. As I said earlier, the overall management plan is an innovation. This is where Norway leads. A long-term objective of cooperation in the North must be a comprehensive management plan covering the whole of the Barents Sea, not just the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1213	Norway is, as is known, the third largest exporter of oil and gas in the world. We are also one of the most important gas suppliers across Europe. The EU clearly states that if they are to make good efforts to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in the years to come, they are dependent on replacing closed-end coal-fired power stations with gas from Norway. Today we open up that gas from the Barents Sea can also contribute to such long-term work. It is also true that oil and gas are no longer just a commodity exported by Norway. So we've become the world's second largest exporter of offshore equipment globally, after the United States. Last year, Norway exported 37 billion kroner of equipment worldwide, which is high technology and equipment adapted to the most stringent environmental requirements globally. As I said in my reply to the Minister for Fisheries, today is historic in the way that an aggregate increase opens up for the launch of oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. Of course, it is also interesting to observe that when the Storting decides this together, it produces among other things. It's like a big environmental victory. I have no reason to criticize SV for that. In fact, I want to commend the SV for having gone in and taken responsibility, and helped Norway to continue as a large gas supplier in the years to come. Then it is actually more interesting to follow the development of the Workers' Party. In the election campaign there were several from the Right who suggested that the Workers' Party in the government could stop development outside the West and Troms II. It was totally rejected by the Labour Party. That we could even think of such a thought, it was unfine. When the Minister for Fisheries was confronted with this, she said to Today's Business on 5 September 2005: ‘I have not feared that the oil/gas options will be negotiated away. I can guarantee it won't happen. Therefore, a new government is a great opportunity.» People in the West Sea and Troms are disappointed that they have not been given the opportunity to participate in this oil and gas development. They're disappointed that the government doesn't even open up an impact assessment. It is not then decided whether there will be oil and gas activities there in the future, but it is for the purpose of doing so. That is what we warned against in the election campaign, that the Workers' Party could sacrifice this on the altar of cooperation, and that has happened. There I had actually expected that the representatives of the Workers' Party had been a little more humble and said: Yes, we think it is terribly sad that the most vulnerable areas in the Nordic region in terms of relocation had to be sacrificed on the altar of this cooperation. At least one should have been large enough to say that when the Minister of Fisheries guaranteed that this would not happen, we would have had to go back on it in cooperation with SV. Instead, you try to talk it away by saying that this is a great victory. It is a total increase that now agrees on developments in the Barents Sea. In that case, the winner must be that he has also got an SV on this. But no one says that you have to abandon the principles and guarantees you gave to the people of Northern Norway. Otherwise, I noticed that you spend a lot of your time wondering what any Bondevik government would have done in this context. The speakers from the Workers' Party say that the management plan would have become more stringent with Bondevik. There was also one who quoted Sponheim. At the same time, the representative Heidi Sørensen says that the management plan is the most environmentally friendly one any government could have provided. How can this be related? Both the Labour Party and the representative Sørensen are not entitled. What is regrettable is that Nordland and Troms are not allowed to participate in this development in 15-20 years. The Labour Party sacrificed this part of the country on the altar of cooperation, and I think you should admit it and complain to the people of Northern Norway that you haven't taken enough into account what was your own promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1233	The Stoltenberg government has designated the northern regions as Norway’s main strategic area of activity. This area has moved from a security policy area to an energy policy force area. A quarter of the world's unused oil and gas resources are estimated to be located in the Arctic, a significant part of the Barents Sea. This could be one of the world's most important resource areas for oil and gas. Large findings are also expected east of North Cape. At the same time, market opportunities are very high, especially in the United States. The coast of Finnmark is the best starting point for international players who want to bet. At the same time, the coast of Finnmark is suitable for land-based processing facilities. Therefore, it is so important that the Government now actively facilitates such development. From the outside, Finnmark has moved into the centre of energy policy. We need a national strategy where, in my view, five elements are important. Firstly, the North must have a focus on foreign and security policy. The government has already done so with full weight. Secondly, Norway must take a leading role in the development of the Barents Sea. Norway must take the initiative. It has been facilitated by the management plan. But we must be offensive in the follow-up. We need to develop the petroleum activity in the north in interaction with Russia. We must have the ambition to contribute to development on the Russian side, both through the participation of Norwegian oil companies and supplier companies on Russian base and also by developing basic functions in Norway that can provide services. But first of all, we need to focus on the possibilities on the Norwegian side. Of course, this is where the main Norwegian interest lies. This is how we need to safeguard our strategic interests, so we need to develop technological solutions that make development possible, and that is how we need to create jobs in Coastal Finland. Thirdly, we have to add an environmental standard. Oil and gas activities must be carried out in interaction with the fishing industry. We need to ensure that the fishing resources are taken into account. We need to strengthen surveillance and oil protection. We need to impose high environmental and technological requirements. But most importantly, we need to develop technologies that show that it is possible to meet these requirements. Fourthly, we need to have a targeted national technology development. Developments in new areas raise new technological challenges. Norway must have the ambition to further develop a role as the world’s leading country in offshore petroleum activities — underwater installations, multi-phase transport and gas processing. Our suppliers must have the best solutions. Our oil industry has to get to where the oil and the gas are. It will also give our industry competitiveness on the Russian side. Fifthly, we need to use the oil and gas resources for a conscious regional development in the north. The Finn Markings have massively closed up a new oil and gas business – but not to see all the workplaces created elsewhere, and not to see the oil being loaded onto ships from the field and passing by. That's why we need three grips: We need to strengthen knowledge in the north. On the one hand, by facilitating petroleum-oriented education at a higher and higher level in North Norway, and on the other, by strengthening petroleum-oriented research and development efforts in the region. The ring effects must be in the north, the suppliers cannot remain in Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger. Companies must actively develop local suppliers. And we need to interact with large national and new regional suppliers. I would like to ask the Government to set up a development programme for enhancing the competence of the supply industry in North Norway. We have to make arrangements to bring the oil and gas to land. That's how we can create the biggest regional ring-effects. That's how we can create most local jobs. That is why it must also be the political leadership. Oil and gas resources provide enormous opportunities for northern areas – not least Finnmark. But it takes political will and action to make opportunities real. This action force has been demonstrated by the Government through the management plan. And then it was quite strange to hear what the representative Burnde and the representative Kristiansen said earlier today. For is it not the case that the three parties in the previous government have very different views in this debate? Isn't it true that the Christian People's Party and the Left are actually in favour of petroleum-free zones in parts of North Norway? The main question then is not whether the current government should have gone further, but whether the previous government had at all been able to present any management plan. That's what you can ask questions about. We have heard the glaring views of the three former government parties in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1270	No one can remember that the northern areas have ever been as focused as they are now. This is because the petroleum age has also reached these areas and our northern part of the country. We have been presented with a very comprehensive and useful management plan that will benefit so much more than the petroleum industry. I notice that we have received very good documentation here on these large and important geographical areas, which had not come without having been talking about oil and gas activity in the north. I am of those who warmly welcome the age of petroleum to North Norway. No one is more concerned about taking care of nature and the environment in North Norway than we do, but we also rely on the fact that the country has activity and housing conditions. Then the county cannot remain as a protected area. That's why I'm glad that the management plan was not a protection plan, but that it became a plan for managing our rich resources. I look at the setting that the opposition is strongly divided in this matter. The previous government parties have clearly positioned themselves on each side of the line drawn up by the Government for the further work. This tells me that the government has made a good deal, and that we had hardly been where we are today, without the government change that last election gave us. The Snow White project in Hammerfest has clearly shown the potential of a petroleum activity in the north. I hope, and I think this is just the beginning of something far more for this industry in the north. The world needs energy, and the country, including the northern part of the country, needs new businesses and new jobs. With today's and future technology and safety requirements, I have no doubt that both the environment and other industries will be able to live alongside the petroleum activity in a very good way. I believe, on the contrary, that we need an upward and strong petroleum industry in the northern part of the country at a time when, on the Russian side, there is also a great deal of petroleum activity. Norwegian technology and Norwegian safety requirements have undoubtedly much to contribute. I regret the attitude that the Christian People's Party and the Left want the Lofoten and the Western Pole to become petroleum-free zones immediately. I also see that these parties are busy creating programmes to create more jobs in the northern part of the country, but there is nothing very specific about what they come with. The country part needs something more concrete than such airborne signals in the form of a note. Now we have to move on to the work of making North Norway the Energy Power Center part of the country. We have to keep in mind that it takes many years from what is done and until extraction can begin. In the meantime, technology is further developed to make extraction even safer. As a coastal population, I am concerned that we have a coastal towing boat capacity, which is to be ready for both the petroleum activity and other activities at sea. It is also important that the Petroleum Inspectorate will soon be in place in the north with their competence. The Oil Directorate is too far in place in Harstad, and it will be quite natural that the Petroleum Control will also be there with a department as soon as possible. Unlike the representative, Aspaker, I want the Petroleum Control established in the north, not just an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1296	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1299	The main challenges in this case are balancing the different and very many interests that exist, and I think that the management plan does very well. It's actually so that our future is shaped by the choices we make today. This may in particular relate to the consideration of overall environmental management and the consideration of total and total value creation. My faith is linked to the fact that everything is possible, just using the right time perspective. The balance sheet presented in the plan is precisely a confirmation that everything is possible, but necessary and correct time assessments have been made. With regard to the criticism raised in the debate on the acquisition of knowledge, I would like to acknowledge that it needs courage and wisdom to recognise the need for more knowledge. Unfortunately, someone in this room lacks that courage. There is a good balance between the areas open to oil and gas activities and the areas in which one chooses to wait. I understand that someone wants to go directly into the so-called attractive areas outside the North and Troms. But it is absolutely necessary to balance this against time and knowledge. Attractive areas do not disappear. They are there and ready for development in our near future. After comments from perhaps the Right in the debate today, one would believe that the management plan made it possible to remove some of the areas from the map, and in a way to remove them forever and ever. But that's not the case. According to the Oil Directorate's estimate, that's still 26 pst. of the total resources on the Norwegian socket undiscovered. This gives us an image of our opportunities, of our time perspective, and not least of what these could contribute to future value creation and employment. In terms of value creation and employment, I think it's worth mentioning that I, and many more with me, have clear expectations that those who are now going to participate in the development of our northern seas, take land-based employment seriously. It has been and is such that Norwegian capital provides significant activity in the rural economy, and in particular perhaps now in the supplier industry. But this activity can get higher, and that's where the focus needs to be directed. I will allow myself to add that the participation of the oil and gas industry in the development of the land-based industry and industry must be great, and perhaps even greater than today. In my opinion, this is one of many important areas and elements that the plan takes into account and that it expresses well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1312	Today, the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten are clean and rich seas. They're of great importance to Norway. Here we have important marine resources, there are growing-up areas for different fish stocks, etc. Fishing wealth has long been the basis for exports of national importance. There are also many seabird colonies, sea mammals, coral reefs and fungus areas. Furthermore, the sea area is an important transport route, and an assumption that there are large amounts of petroleum resources up here. From being a security policy area, the north is now becoming an energy policy force center. Because of the richness of the land on natural resources, they also provide great commercial opportunities for Norway. At the same time, ensuring good coordination between different industries is a pressing challenge and must be done in a resilient way. It was with this in mind that work on the management plan started. This is not an industrial plan. It's not a protective plan, either. The aim is to establish a framework which allows business interests to be balanced in relation to fisheries, maritime transport and petroleum activities within the framework of sustainable development. Man has a responsibility to manage the creation. For the Christian People's Party, this is the trustee's responsibility and keep the commodity-principle fundamental. We need to use the resources that exist in the area in a way that is both sustainable and environmentally friendly. We also need to deal with the climate and environmental changes that we see are emerging in the particularly vulnerable regions of the Arctic. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to be able to combine its role as a major energy producer with being a transitory country when it comes to the environment and environmental protection. Norway shall be world-leading on environmental protection quality and standards. We must also ensure that ecosystems and habitats in the northern regions are kept intact and intact. Therefore, we are investing in research within the petroleum industry, therefore we require zero emissions, and therefore we are concerned with having the best possible preparedness. We don't gamble with futures. We will establish a petroleum-free zone outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. These areas are so rich in valuable species and have an extremely vulnerable ecosystem. Therefore, we cannot accept a risk of harm. The combination of ambitious environmental requirements and a high level of competence has made the Norwegian industry at present far-reaching when it comes to finding good environmental solutions. This strategy must also be used as a basis for future action. We need to have high ambitions, and we need to ensure that the north becomes a priority for sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1329	We are now discussing the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea area, and, as others have been before me, this is a historic day. Before I go into these moments, I can't avoid commenting on Kvassheim's explanation of why the Left, while they were in government, chose to keep quiet when important reports from the Marine Research Institute and the SFT were put on lid. Today you're on the field. That time we asked for Left's help to get these out. We didn't get it. But then to the plan. We have a balanced and good management plan, which takes into account the environment, safety, fishing interests, oil and gas and other industrial interests in the north. For the Central Party, it is important to point out that we want long-termity in our policies, so long-term that we look beyond the oil age period into which we go, and want to have a viable part of the country after the oil age is over. Then we have to take the necessary steps to have an up-stream business, a strong fishing sector and an up-stream travel life. We're going to take advantage of the diversity that natural resources in the north give us, so that we also have a diverse business life. That's why it's so important that we have a waiting attitude for Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. Unfortunately, there are some people who have not realized that these are particularly vulnerable areas. If you have an interest in it, I ask that a reader read the research articles in Ottar Nr. 2, 2006, where a number of researchers are just asking for great caution in this vulnerable area. As far as knowledge is concerned, researcher Gunnar Sander at the Polar Institute has just framed a series of key knowledge gaps that we need to use the time that comes to fill. So to those who are skeptical about something going on from us. If we have 600-800 billion lying on the seabed in the Lofoten/Drome area, is there anyone who thinks that oil companies are forgetting if they have to wait a few more years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1343	Knowledge is the key to value creation. Knowledge is also the key to managing values. Knowledge makes it easier to make good decisions and shows us the way out of difficult and dangerous waters. All wise decisions require good knowledge. Therefore, wise nations always make their decisions based on the knowledge available at all times. The management plan submitted by the Government contains all available knowledge needed to make the right decisions. The management plan shall be based on the knowledge and importance of petroleum activities, ecological balance, the environment and marine resources. Therefore, this plan should be called a wise and sound management plan for present and future generations. There is no doubt that in modern times oil and gas have been the most important resource for the national economy of some countries in a simple and rapid way. Oil and gas have undoubtedly contributed to raising the standard of living of many countries and to providing national revenues against which no other product can measure up. There is no concealment that oil and gas resources have lifted many nations out of poverty, while for others it has been essential to preserve their developed common well-being. Norway is thus no exception. Therefore, it is tempting to set in motion the fastest possible expansion of petroleum activities and serve what can be served. But the question is whether we are willing to disregard all the knowledge we have about marine resources, the environment and ecological balance. The answer is no. We can't afford it, not just because we want to preserve nature as it is, but because we see what these resources have meant for these areas over hundreds of years, and not least what they represent for the future. Petroleum activities in the north are the future of the country. Let's get it fixed right away. But that doesn't mean that only this business is the future of the northern regions. Marine resources other than petroleum activities also have a legitimate place in the future development of the northern regions. Therefore, all the knowledge is used to make the right decisions in the management plan, in order to strike a balance between the different resources represented by these areas. It is probably a bit too narrow of some batches to believe that only petroleum activities are to form the basis for development. Petroleum activities in the north cannot be a single parameter for the measurement of the development of the area. It's a whole plan, and the whole thing tells us not to choose between resources and industries. On the other hand, knowledge shall form the basis for developing different industries and exploiting all resources in order to avoid conflicting interests between different industries. Wholeness shall reconcile different interests for the benefit of the community. With the knowledge that we have, it is fully possible to use different resources without going to the expense of the others. That's why it's important to be wise. We're going to use the whole country, but with the knowledge that we have, to make ourselves the maximum use of all our resources to the best of our community. Let's move forward step by step because of the knowledge of the future and future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1356	The joy in North Norway was great when we were finally going to get a test drilling and show the rest of the country that we also had great values of gas and oil. Fisheries, together with industry and agriculture, have been and are our primary jobs. Now we were going to be oil and gas sheiks, but then one. The world that looked bright according to petroleum activities, including: workplaces, IT and research in North Norway, were shifted far into the blue. The government parties have too much party mind to assume that we in the Nordic countries can benefit from our resources in the Nordic countries VI and VII. The need to strengthen the knowledge base is the argument of the government parties not to initiate impact assessment, test drilling, but they will assess this in a management plan in 2010. Then we can add at least 20 years before we can get started. Is this a good district policy? It should be believed that the knowledge base is well-lit in the environments involved in Norway. You may not have to invent the powder twice! Last week I was so lucky to visit Melkøya outside Hammerfest, and I got to see the positive ringing effects and not least the optimism that prevailed there. This optimism cannot be said in the Nordic countries because of the government's will, or the government's lack of such, to begin drilling or impact investigation in Northern Ireland VI and VII during this period. The people of Northern Ireland need to regain optimism, so those who have moved from North Norway may want to move back to the part of the country. The Norse women and men look positively at a test drilling. The population welcomes the oil and gas adventure. The only one who doesn't, it's the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1367	It was a happy day when the Northern Region management plan was presented earlier this year. It was gratifying because it is offensive in terms of exploiting resources for the benefit of the region and the nation, and because it is committed to sound and sustainable management, where the vulnerability of this area has been adequately protected. The proposed use of petroleum resources with year-round activity in the Barents Sea is important in several respects, not least because it takes into account and plays towards the activity on the Russian side of the socket. At the same time, it is wise policy to await the exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources in Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II. This is a highly vulnerable area, where consideration for fisheries and other marine resources has had the right to drive. For this reason, a type of impact assessment required by the Petroleum Act in connection with the search and exploitation of resources is not open. Instead, the management plan provides for the monitoring of the seabed outside the Nordic countries VII and Troms II with seismic surveys. This is important in view of the longer-term management of these areas. The management plan describes a strict regime in terms of monitoring and control of these vulnerable areas. A wide range of research and development activities in environmental knowledge, monitoring and technologies are important elements in this context. In this way, the use of resources can be consistent with the knowledge and preparedness we have at all times. The measures proposed by the management plan describe one of the most stringent regimes of petroleum activity known in terms of the environment and safety. The management plan focuses on the environmental framework conditions for sustainable development in the north. I'm glad that the Government will come back to the issue of social effects and value creation on land. However, it is tempting to comment on the suspicious claims made by parts of the opposition that the management plan now makes it impossible to survive in the north. Then I have to remind you that the snow-white development alone has given more than four times as much counting for Northern Norwegian companies as it was assumed in advance. And that's all reason to think that in the north there's far wider and better competence than the 2.8 billion DKK associated with the deliveries at Snow White refers to. In other words, the submitted management plan opens up in every way to growth in the whole of the northern part of the country, not least because this government, in its Northern Territory initiative, is committed to a policy of participatory and active involvement in value creation – not only in this area but also in fisheries and marine industries, in travel and other emerging industries that are knowledge and culture-based. It is an exposure that must be taken in close cooperation with the operators that are granted concessions in the north. They also have a great responsibility in this way. It's the differentiated business in the north that can create the development that we live in the continent wants us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1381	I have followed with interest the development of the people in North Norway in general, and in Finnmark in particular. I looked at the numbers that now came for the first quarter of 2006. What you see, as disturbing, is a general decline in almost all of Finnmark's municipalities, with the exception of two, Alta and Vadsø. One of the most interesting things about it is that there was also a decline in Hammerfest, by ten in the first quarter of 2006. What you can't avoid reflecting on when you hear this debate is that a very large proportion of all posts are about how the petroleum industry in the north is going to rock North Norway from moving away. So you can see that despite that activity, Hammerfest even has a decline in the phase in which the activity is at its greatest. We see that municipalities like Loppa, Kvalsund and Passvik, which are neighbouring municipalities, have a decline in line with or greater than ever before. That means that the answers given here by some representatives cannot be the right ones. I have to say that when I listened to Børge Brende, he was not able to recognise when he was Minister of Environmental Protection. Khalid Mahmood said you have to use the whole country, but when I hear Børge Burnde, I think you have to use the whole intellect too. For he is not near the reflections he did earlier on having a sustainable environment, as one could see him standing in the moon boots in Antarctica and speaking wisely. What strikes you is that fisheries also have to play a key role in a long-term perspective in North Norway. That means you have to create a sustainability for the fisheries. I was on Rolf Island this fall. There I saw how German tourists now begin to get interest related to the settlement on Rolf Island, so that you can get a new settlement, then with foreigners who are interested in moving there, at least in the summer half of the year. What they are looking for – as you could see in tourist magazines in Germany that are targeting German tourism – is pure nature, clean seas, fish that can be fished and that you can eat. It's clear that if we're not concerned about the interaction between oil and gas extraction and other resources in North Norway, North Norway can lose enormous weight on it. Just since I ended up at Stortinget in 1997, I've seen how tourism in the Finnmark context has come too far. Now you can see that the sletne's guy is being transformed, so you can rent the whole guy and spend the night there. You can do it. In Vardø you can see how the city is completely changing. There's an enormous potential here. But, of course, it's not that there are heavy companies that stand for this, often there are one-man businesses and small businesses, but in sum they can do a lot for Finnmark. If we don't keep that perspective, we'll experience that even Hammerfest is being moved away. I must say that when you hear this debate, it is a perspective that is almost absent. We have to take that perspective if we're really going to reverse the movement rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1394	I will begin by pointing out that for the next decade, the Norwegian authorities have set a target of finding 5 billion barrels of oil reserves by 2015. This means that we both need to increase the recovery rate of many fields already in production, we need to expand several already discovered findings, and not least the detection and expansion of so far undiscovered petroleum resources is important. Oil production in Norway is now declining. In recent years Norway has been the world’s seventh largest producer country of oil and gas, but has now fallen to 8th place on oil production statistics. The fall in Norwegian oil production has been around 0.5 million barrels per year in recent years. a few years ago, in 3.1 million barrels. This is a lot, and this is disturbing. At the same time, oil production in many of the world's largest and most important oil fields is falling in several places in the world. Estimates from the IEA, the International Energy Agency, show that the world's oil consumption will increase dramatically in the future, from around 85 million barrels per barrel. Today, to about 119 million barrels in 2025. So that's an increase of 40 pst. in oil consumption over the next 20 years outlined by the IEA. Both Norway and other oil and petroleum resource countries now have a clear need to replace falling oil production with discovery and development of new findings. The discovery of new fields is important, because we know that it takes many years for production to begin, from the actual findings to be made. We need for these reasons to discover new findings, without delay, and therefore it is pointless to pursue a policy that means that searching in the most prospective areas of Norwegian base is postponed for no good reason, as I can assess it. The energy policy of the red-green government is regrettable in this way, and I believe many in Northland and Troms are now disappointed by the government's policy on the areas there. The government should have gone much further, and now you're losing valuable time. The development of important parts of the country that had been promised petroleum activities by not least the Workers' Party is weakened. So now these plans are postponed for 10-20 years. This is very unfortunate, and we in the Progress Party can only regret this. We are therefore promoting proposals that would not have created any delay in progress, for example. Nordland VI and VII and Troms II.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1405	For hundreds of years, the population in the north has been harvesting and exploiting nature. It has to go on. It is therefore important to establish a framework for balancing fisheries, maritime transport and oil activities in the context of sustainable development. The northern regions are expected to contain a large proportion of the world's undiscovered petroleum resources, and in the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that there is a great deal of consensus that we should proceed cautiously because of the very vulnerable areas. The potential for value creation and jobs in the north is high, with increasing petroleum activity. The Christian People's Party is keenly concerned about facilitating the benefit of large parts of the value creation for the three northernmost states. It is therefore quite remarkable that the current government has not given greater attention to this aspect in the plan. In fact, when the petroleum activity is gradually shifting northwards, it is far more important that both public and company competence jobs be shifted than the question of how quickly all areas should be opened, because jobs related to the operation of the oil installations are very few, according to the notification. In the case of Lofoten, a landing there and jobs would subsequently correspond to about the same thing that the Stamsund fishing farm has of people at work today. I noticed that the Minister for Oil and Energy said in his post: ‘The adventure we have seen in the south shall continue also in the north.’ Yes, then there must be considerable action from a government that has what has declared policy that no public jobs should be moved out of the central strata. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that increased authority activity in the north develops in line with the increased petroleum activity. It is therefore appropriate for the Government to investigate how best to carry out Petroleum oversight and oversight tasks when petroleum activity increases in the north, either by the establishment of a branch office in Harstad or by other means. I now signal that the Christian People's Party supports minority proposal No. 7 about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1423	Now we have the overall management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea presented, and optimism is great in our northernmost part of the country, especially in Finland, in the state of the country that has experienced the largest relocation, and where there is great unemployment in very many municipalities. There's a good reason to ask the question, what now? What is going on for my home country of Finnmark? Petroleum activity has been going on for a long time in the Barents Sea, and it has not contributed to a significant number of jobs throughout the county, with the exception of parts of the western state. In the expansion phase of Snow White, there have been 3000 to 4000 in work over several years. Melkøya has appeared as a Moorgue, and there has been no significant number of workers from all over Finnmark employed here. Workers have come largely from other parts of the country and from other countries. Of course, therefore, the whole state must be involved to a much greater extent in the future. I called on the Bondevik Government to ensure that, in the event of further petroleum activity in the Barents Sea, the central authorities have to contribute to ensure that the entire county has a greater ring-effect from this activity. I also expect today's government to contribute. If we are not to continue becoming just a commodity supplier, the central authorities need to step up their efforts to facilitate value creation and development. Infrastructure such as roads, airports, ports and electricity networks must be upgraded, and broadband to everyone must be a matter of course. The Lofoten and the Barents Sea management plan, as it now stands, lacks areas of permanent protection on the one hand, but it also lacks many forms of social protection on the other. What is going to happen to businesses and communities in the areas concerned has been absent from public planning in many ways. We need to reach, among other things, have a much closer cooperation and interaction between business and the entire school system than has been the case up to now. School and business must not continue to live in each of their worlds. The counselling service needs to be upgraded so that our students from high school know what opportunities for work they will have in Finland in the future. What education will our young people bet on? It is necessary to establish petroleum-related lines at different secondary schools, while at the same time involving the Finnish University and the Sámi College in Kautokeino, so that they can play important roles in the future. If we are to secure applicants for this type of education, we also need to be consciously committed to – and created a much greater interest in – the real subjects both among girls and boys than is the case today, both in primary and secondary schools. The interests of these subjects are not created by nothing. It needs resources to be made available, both for the purpose of continuing training of teachers and in relation to updating equipment at different schools. I'm very concerned that we're going to be able to keep the kids in the north. Today, unfortunately, they disappear as dew for the sun from our part of the country. In parallel with the construction of oil protection and environmental protection and other industries, it therefore needs action to be taken, so that we can take part in and slow down the worrying deportation that we have from North Norway in general, and from Finnmark in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1440	This is a very interesting debate to follow, but there is no new debate. It is rather a debate that has come too late in the case of North Norway. The Bondevik Government and the Minister for Environmental Protection Børge Brende's environmental policy battleships were the management plan. Therefore, they stopped all activities in the Barents Sea, except Snow White. On behalf of the Labour Party, we repeatedly reminded the management plan of the previous period. Petroleum activities in Norway started in the North Sea by trying and failing and working towards what we now have, which is the world's most environmentally friendly petroleum industry and activities. The management plan adopted today opens up the possibility of further development so that we can achieve sustainable development in the north. Sustainable development means that we get a growth and a development that does not damage the possibilities for the coming generations, the ones that come after us. It's a challenge this government has taken seriously. In relation to the environmental policy battleship of the Environment Minister Børge Brende and Kjell Magne Bondevik, one may well have read this setting saying that what is left is a healthy and rotten pram. I believe – and believe – that a Bondevik government would never have been able to present such a balanced plan as the one we are dealing with today. I am very proud of the results that this government has presented in terms of opportunities for development in a part of the country that absolutely needs more legs to stand on. With regard to the role of the Progress Party, I really just want to make a call, and that is: Stop sewing, become constructive, and you can also be involved in building the country stone on stone, or grab a barrel.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1451	This should have been a happy day for the whole of North Norway, but unfortunately this is not the case. Once again, we experience that a small minority is completely blocking what the broad majority wants. I would recommend the Workers' Party and the Center Party to listen to the people of the north. Over 80 pst. want a high level of activity, so that both Nordland VI and Nordland VII, Troms II and the entire Norwegian part of the Barents Sea are opened for exploration and extraction of oil and gas. Unfortunately, the SV, with its policy, has taken its position on board, and this suggests that we have had a ping-pong policy towards the northern regions. We must not forget that Norway is the world’s leading nation in technical solutions related to the oil industry where the environmental perspective is included. It is the challenges of solving our common national tasks to future generations that we should be concerned about. We are able to do this, while at the same time ensuring the environment. Not least, good cooperation with Russia will be a key to success. And then you have to wonder if the government is aware of what it is doing by adding up to a boycott of Russian interests, instead of going the path of dialogue and greater Norwegian presence in Norway and Russia. Greater Norwegian presence will strengthen Norwegian interests, and for this reason it is also clear that we should have a Northern Region Directorate that could coordinate and coordinate everything that should fall into place. North Norway and the North must not become an environmental policy alibi for special interest organisations. The population also has a requirement for development and prosperity. North Norway as a region is the richest region in the whole Nordic region of natural raw materials and should be an area of strong growth. How can it be that this area, which is the richest resource area, is at the same time the area that is most heavily subsidized by the State, and where deportation is part of everyday life? It's a paradox. Our knowledge of the resources in the north is not of a new date, nor is this voter treatment of the population in the north. Today, we experience the same thing that we have experienced decades after decades, where historically, the government that put a complete stop to all developments. Today, it is no longer the sinner’s office, but a labor party-dominated government that has taken over the role of the civil service and carried out a complete kneel-drop for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1471	In Northern Ireland, we expected an impact assessment and were not very pleased that there was no impact assessment of Northland VII and Troms II in this round. When I say it that way, I know with certainty that the Nordland Workers' Party and a collective trade movement in the north are behind it. But as the representative, Torny Pedersen, said in an excellent way: we northerners are not so quick to give up. These areas are among the most promising search areas on a Norwegian base, with great opportunities for oil and gas discovery. There are very large national values with significant ring-effects on value creation and employment in the region, a region characterised by high-needed relocation of new businesses and technology workplaces. As I have seen, it goes at least 15 years from the decision to declare a field until the field is in production, if necessary. Meanwhile, continuous technology development will take place in order to meet increasingly stringent environmental requirements. It is important that we look ahead and seize the opportunities offered by the management plan. I am very pleased that the management plan does not imply that some areas are given permanent protection and that the term ‘petroleum-free zones’ is gone. So the principle becomes like before, that everything is closed until it opens. Strict and objective environmental requirements drive technology development in the future, not petroleum-free zones. The management plan is a good starting point for the development of oil and gas activities in North Norway. As it now stands, the management plan will provide predictable framework conditions and good opportunities for the petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. That's good. The management plan points to the major environmental challenges ahead in our northern seas which are long-range transport pollution, illegal overfishing and trawling activities and the risk of acute oil pollution from maritime transport and petroleum activities. It is worth noting that normal oil and gas operations are not considered to be the great sinner, as some have tried to produce it as. It should provide good cards for future battles. Then to the conclusion. It is important to see the opportunities offered by the management plan, so that the Nordic region will in future be able to take part in the opportunities offered by the development of oil and gas activities and not become an environmental alibi. It is positive that a comprehensive management plan will be revised in 2010. We in Northern Ireland have clear hopes when the plan is going to be revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1488	In the debate we have had so far today, there has been the greatest focus on the impact of the plan on oil activities, and of course with different approaches from the various parties. However, I would like to stress that the plan now under discussion shows that, to a large extent, it is traditional activity through fisheries that is the great winner in the management plan, if we are to nominate some winners. The follow-up to the plan of scientific advice from marine research teams as well as from fishing teams in relation to the areas to be opened up for new oil activities implies a very good balance between environmental interests and various industrial interests such as fisheries and oil. The centre party has underlined in its programme that we want to focus on both housing, jobs and a forward-looking environmental thinking in the north. This means that the development of industry must now consist of both fishing, farming and tourism, as well as oil and gas, among others. The management plan has facilitated the location of marine oil activity in the next few years, but equally important for the region is the focus on land-based industrial development. The tourism, fisheries and aquaculture sectors are and will be the largest industries in the region in the years to come. We have to bring that with us when we discuss the management plan. Oil and gas activities will not be able to provide similar jobs but will be a particularly important complement to the traditional shore-based jobs. We need to attach conditions to the petroleum industry in order to ensure that there is an economic development and job creation on land across North Norway. The centre party will make clear demands that a substantial part of the new jobs associated with the North petroleum activity, both competence and industrial workplaces, should be present in the national part of the country. It shall include, inter alia: is ensured by setting operational and base structure requirements, and we are working to ensure the highest possible share of local suppliers to the facilities in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1501	Let me illustrate with numbers some of the previous talk was about. The first amanunensis Peter Arbo at the University of Tromsø has conducted a study and predicted in 2020 the following figures for the industries to which reference was made: Travel life has the possibility of employing 23 000 annual works, fishing 18 000 annual works, aquaculture 13 000 annual works and petroleum activities 2000 annual works. It gives a picture of the business that you're going to get in the north, and it should draw a lot of arguments down on a more ground level. It is not the oil business that will solve the challenges for the northern part of the country. The first three activities will create an income potential estimated at NOK 71 billion. The activity in the petroleum industry locally will be limited, but we know that it is spending considerable resources nationally. Then to Northland VI and VII. Once the government has chosen to put the handcuff on and let this train move a little bit slower, it is in recognition that developments in the security sector, technological development, are coming against us with stormscratch. Then let these three areas lie there like a captivating jewel. Because some of them are already within the reach of horizontal drilling from land, we can get an extraction from them. This means that we are facing a whole new situation that can give a new impetus to land-based business. We should have time to wait for that. So a little comment on the Progress Party. I allowed myself yesterday to be a bit fluent in the Nordic way when I said that the Progress Party had its own calculator. Now I find that they have got their own receiver. It's not said that 80 pst. the Nordic population has said no. What we know is that someone is deeply disappointed. Many have considerable concerns and feel a relief from what is determined in the Storing today, and many have a pronounced joy. Let's be honest enough to admit it. Otherwise, I ask that the Advance Party get another recipient.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1514	The Christian People's Party considers it unfortunate that the Government is laying the sailing trail as close to the country as it does. It is positive that they have improved the application after the first round of applications. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure the safety of seafarers. The establishment of the coastal facility for AIS along the coast is an important measure. We believe that the route should be within the AIS chain, and with a coverage of 30 nautical miles this needs to be improved. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with value creation, and that it should have sustainable governance. Therefore, we believe that there would be a strength if the societal implications of a possible finding could be documented by the companies in the impact assessment. Therefore, we have noted that we want the regulation to be amended accordingly. I believe that what the representative, Mr Ballo, is about, in such a change, could have helped to solve the challenges he pointed out, even in view of the fact that we have focused on the idea that Innovation Norway should set up a programme to create jobs in this sector. There is not much policy we have changed in this setting. That's how honest we're supposed to be. Today I want to draw out one of the areas where we've done it, and that's Bear Island. When the Council of State presented the message, the Bear Island was important. We all remember it. It is in the setting: ‘The majority assume that extending the current nature reserve on Bjørn Island to 22 km to the sea means a permanent protection area.’ We've confirmed this. We've taken the knowledge seriously through this confirmation, and we've created politics after that. I guess that's how we want the management of our marine area. With regard to the coastal areas to which the Government has granted concession, the Left and Christian People's Party believes that it is very unfortunate that there has been a concession here, since we are opening up an activity that is far closer to country than the trade unions recommend us. The Government has not chosen to take account of the professional bodies. This regrets the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1534	It was the representative of Ballos who made me ask for the floor now. I think it was necessary to thank Mr Ballo for his good words and not least the fact that he misses me as Minister for the Environment. The last thing I can understand is that the government and government parties today will confirm that oil protection is being neglected in the north. Today, if he does not change his mind, the representative Ballo will vote in favour of our proposal to strengthen the towing boat capacity outside the Finnmark coast. The representative will then probably also vote in favour of our proposal to step up oil protection as oil and gas expansion takes place, and the representative will also vote against our observation that the WWF’s ‘Clean Coast’ project will receive increased support. After these nice words from the representative Ballo, I would rather live with the fact that he misses that I am using my entire intellect. Because that's not all that's so easy to understand. That it had to be an environmental protection minister from the Swedish Government to make Norway fully open the Barents Sea to oil and gas development, maybe not everyone had thought, but as I said in my main post, I congratulate the Swedish Government for that, because this gas will replace coal power on the continent, and that is good environmental policy. I had a consistent message – it also had the Right. If it is the case that the representative Ballo said I was not too oil and gas in my previous job, he is actually wrong. In 2004, among others, Bellona and Frederic Hauge my head in a barrel, because I was so positive to oil and gas, but I always stressed that it was to be on the world's strictest conditions attached to the environment. I think it is possible that fishing and oil and gas go hand in hand. But what's not consistent is two of the government parties acting here. It is not consistent that SV, who has linked to Snow White, is now going in the breeze to vote for full oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. It is not consistent with what the parties have stood for in the past, but I would like to welcome it, and I would like to welcome it to turn around. It is therefore not consistent that the Norwegian working party today opposes the fact that it is at all necessary to determine the consistency of the operation of gas and oil activities outside the Western Sea and in the Barents Sea. As I also mentioned in my previous post, Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen was confronted with this in the election campaign and said to Today's Business on 5 September: ‘I have not feared that the oil/gas options will be negotiated away. I can guarantee that it does not happen." That is why people in the West and Troms are disappointed with the Norwegian Labour Party today, and believe it is not consistent. They probably have a point there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1553	The management plan we are dealing with today is a good plan. However, this is not a good plan for North Norway. That's not a good plan for the oil companies. It is not a good plan for the supplier industry nor for Norway as a nation. But that's a good plan to survive politics. That's the most important thing about the whole plan. If you take from what has been said by politicians and those who have been in government in the past, it is clearly a survival strategy. The representative, Ballo, said that Børge Burnde was not to be recognized from the time he was in government. The Børge Burned himself in an excellent way in the post before me. But I can assure the representative Ballo that there are very many of the big ones, especially from the northernmost parts of the country, who are not to recognise today, compared to what they actually said in the election campaign. I have a lot of examples of that. One of the fixed elements of the election campaign was the daily radio duels between Olav Gunnar Ballo and Hallgeir H. Langeland from SV. It was interesting to listen to, because there were two very different opinions. I miss the representative of Langeland here today. Maybe he's standing in the lawn outside and demonstrating to the Government, as he tends to do, or maybe he's taken planes up to Hammerfest and linked himself into Snow White. It would have been interesting. In the case of the Workers' Party, they have a good tradition of double communication. Let me use one example. The former Minister of Oil and Energy from the Workers' Party, Olav Akselsen, closed Northland VI and Northland VII in the 2001 election campaign. Then there was a change of government. The Bondevik II government took over. After two–three months, Olav Akselsen appeared in the media and said that the Bondevik II government did not open Northland VI and Northland VII – he called for it. In other words, the Labour Party has one policy when in opposition and one policy when in position. They have tradition for that. Who doesn't remember Prime Minister Stoltenberg at NHO's annual conference this year? There he stood, high, dark, and mysterious, and had violent visions for the northernmost part of the country, the Northern Region bet. Now, what's left of the North Zone bet? Nothing. Trying to open the door to Russia to get activities going. As far as petroleum activity is concerned, I fear that you will take seven miles past the whole of North Norway and land with both legs in Russia – and I think you will stay there for quite a while. This is a black and dark day for large parts of North Norway, and it's because of the government we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1566	I think several of the representatives from the Workers' Party and SV have given a very strange and caricant representation of the Right's argument for increased petroleum activity in the north. But I understand that the people of the Labour Party, in particular, dislike the situation today and the fact that they have gone from very important promises in the election campaign to a higher level of activity. The compromise in today's management plan cannot be characterised in any other way than a very pale version of the Workers' Party's actual oil and gas policy. Let me make it quite clear that the Right has never claimed that the Government has exposed Troms II and Northland VII ‘forever and ever’, as it has been said here. But we have allowed ourselves to point out the fact that the deferral is a major obstacle to the supplier industry, which was ready locally to take hold. The holdings cannot survive in the long term. They must work and earn money today and tomorrow in order to survive. Nor has the right ever claimed that the future of North Norway depends on oil and gas alone. I put a lot of emphasis on that in my article. On the contrary, we have underlined the need for new and more – and I repeat more – legs to stand on. No industries shall be replaced, but existing industries shall be supplemented by a new, large and important industry. Oil and gas industries demand other skills, which means the growth of new jobs, and which will allow more Nordic young people to gain a future in the region where they were born and raised. My co-representative, Bendiks H. Arnesen from Troms, tried with some sort of explanation of vote in relation to proposal No. 7, from the Right and Advance Party, to investigate an office of Petroleum Control in Harstad. Arnesen reasoned his vote – he shall vote against – that the point is not to determine but to establish an office. I feel the need to ask for clarification from the Workers' Party, but of course from the Government. Is there anything the Storting has not been told? Does the representative Arnesen say that the Government has clear plans – in some drawer – to set up a department for the Petroleum Control in Harstad? In that case, I think this is an opportunity to make that news known.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1577	I think that the figures that Alf Ivar Samuelsen drew out, that he had found in the newspaper Ottar, and that Innovation Norway has also presented on its websites, well illustrates what was my main point, namely that very much of the employment that should and should be done in North Norway is going to happen in other areas, and that the potential is much greater in other areas than in the oil and gas industries. That's why you have to take that potential out. Speaking of Børge Brende's posts, I must say that once I have listened to Ivar Kristiansen, Elisabeth Aspaker and Børge Brende, I get associations to Bjørn Bjørnsen's book on the Battle of Narvik during World War II. It sounds like you're about to depopulate North Norway with a series of destructive measures. It's not like I miss Børge Brende as Minister for the Environment. What I strictly said was that he's probably missing in Antarctica. But since he wasn't here, I can't expect him to quote it correctly. But my point is that in a number of these areas one could have collected in a nuanced way. I think there is reason to praise both the Christian People's Party and the Left in the debate here today, because in a nuanced way they point out a part of the vulnerability that is in the northern regions and that they must be safeguarded. I have heard that Børge Brende is also concerned about before, while he is now more concerned about playing the role of opposition politician and reindeer cultivation it. And that's a choice he has full right to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1591	The battle of Narvik I don't think has anything to do with this debate. On the other hand, I think it is interesting to hear, and that gives rise to some respect, the contributions from two of the three representatives of the Nordic Workers' Party who have had the floor here today, which clearly show that they are disappointed that Nordland VII and Troms II are not being consistently examined, and they refer to their own local decisions. Then it's better to test that the representative Hill-Marta Solberg says he's happy, and is doing the art work today to argue strongly for something that you just a few months ago was strongly opposed. When you refer, as representatives Ballo and Samuelsen do here, to numbers – not unexpectedly taken from Peter Arbo at the University of Tromsøs, who have been able to perform many and many and different numbers, depending on how best to use them – I wonder how much documentation you really need in the government parties if there are such numbers that should be the basis for a decision. The number of persons employed in the Norwegian fishing industry has fallen systematically over many, many years, suggesting that this will also happen in the future. There is also very little evidence that, despite increased production, the number of persons employed in the farming industry will increase. How much documentation does it take to show that the migration figures, the population decline – the demography – show an unhealthy and crazy composition along the coast of the north? And how much documentation do you need to see the wealth built up in those parts of the country that this forum has agreed to be allowed to evolve? We in Norway are at the top of the world in the areas that have been allowed to participate in this petroleum cycle. We have developed the world's best technology and have the world's most stringent environmental standard. Then you devalue the fact that the ‘only’ is about 2,000 jobs in the first place. I don't know about anyone in that part of the country where I come from, who thinks there's any reason to germinate out of 2,000 new jobs. There's nothing you can choose to ignore. That is why I have to say in the end that I share a great deal of the disappointment that Mr Pedersen and Mr Stroem, the representatives of the Nordic Labour Party, have expressed here today. I hope you can listen a little bit more to what people along the coast really think and go in for, instead of frightening with crazy numbers, whether they're from the north, from the university community in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1600	Towards the end of the debate, I would like to thank you for a largely constructive and good debate, which has reflected the different views on such a large and comprehensive issue as the management plan. There is no doubt that when this government was formed last October, it knew what was going to be the test piece and the most difficult thing to land. We have made that clear, and the process in Stortinget shows that it was a sensible and genuine compromise we had reached when we presented the management plan. Let me stop at a few things. At the same time as we presented the management plan, we presented the 19th concession round. In this respect, we also looked at blocks outside the relevant area of the management plan. The coastal blocks on the Dark Coast were important to us. They actually said no to oil exploration, because that area was too vulnerable -- especially it was important for herring and for seabirds. It was a spawning grounds for herring, which was exempted from oil operations. It also promises well, given that we have a common ambition that I am happy to share with the committee. This is just the first management plan for a sea area, we are going to catch up with new sea areas in the future. I would like to make a brief visit to the representative Kvassheim of the Left, who in the debate has said that the government is putting up to full speed in the oil business. When you go through the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party, you see that none of them would stop a single new exploration concession in connection with the 19th concession round. The left hand side has to be on the right hand side. I am otherwise glad that we have as wide a width as we have in the treatment of the management plan. We have, if you compare this setting to settings from previous periods, large committee numbers. And it's wrong what someone said earlier today, that there's a narrow support for the plan. The main action of the plan has very broad support in this room. There is also support for the guiding principles behind it. In the Soria-Moria platform, we decided that the precautionary principle should form the basis for environmental policy in Norway, and that means that doubt should benefit nature. That's how the Barents are vulnerable. It is that the wealth and fisheries resources of that area are the basis for eternal value creation. And by protecting the vulnerable areas, as we have done – the Lofoten, the Vestral, the Lopenhagen, the Tromsøflaket and broad zones along the coast – we can manage them on behalf of our descendants. We now have the opportunity to establish a maritime administration that demonstrates that we are taking a holistic responsibility in the Barents Sea, and that is going to be an example for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1615	As I said in my introduction, if we look at the overall plan presented in the Stortinget today – or the attitude that comes from the Energy and Environment Committee – then there is a very large political dimension in the whole matter. Let's look at the six main parts of the setting. In general, a unanimous committee uses the precautionary principle. In the case of knowledge, e.g., included in Part No. two, we see the possibilities to further develop the whole of North Norway and the competences there, etc. The same is true in the HMS field. In the third pillar, which deals with the management of the whole ecosystem, the Committee states that this involves a common factual basis, the distribution of impacts, the assessment of land and the overall impact on the ecosystem and other industries, etc. The Committee is also grouped at this point. In the case of oil protection, there is a discussion about having three state tugboats in the winter and two in the summer, or vice versa – it says on half a tugboat – but that's what we're going to get back to all the time. If we move on to measures in relation to pollution and biodiversity, the Committee is unanimous on a whole range of five main points, and on the framework of petroleum activities, as well. It does, I think, that the Storting, when we sum up this debate, is quite united about the further development of the sensitive marine areas, the ecological system up there, the management of it and the constraints. That's what's solid. If we look at the extremes, there are two parts that want to have petroleum-free zones, and then there are some that will go a little bit faster. If the Vesterål and the Lofoten area, the majority say that here we should have the var-principle with the knowledge base at the bottom. So I feel that when we sum up the debate here today, it is based on a good, solid development in the north, which is based on the precautionary principle, and which is also based on a guarantee of the framework conditions and how we are going to proceed in this system, and a roll-over, as has been said, for those and those years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1624	The entry for the representative Nordtun is probably a bit of a relief in the government parties and in the Workers' Party that they have come to their senses through this debate without experiencing too many who have demonstrated on the outside, and too many internal divisions. The working party probably has the greatest reason to be satisfied, because if we look at previous oil options, we have experienced that even the Working Party has been split internally, for example. when Snow White was adopted. They've avoided that this time. So you can focus on that there's a lot of consensus. Yes, if one reads the setting, it's very much the whole committee agrees on. Often there are the things that SV boasts about, that had it not been for the government, this had not been implemented, for example. in the field of the environment. Then it's kind of funny that it's just those things that a brawler of, that there's a collective committee behind it. I think, in fact, that almost no matter what the government had done, one got to do those things. But it is worth looking at the collection of suggestions that are at the back of the setting – that is approx. 15 proposals. So many proposals have not been in connection with an oil notification – if we can call it that – at all times. It shows that there's actually a lot of disagreement about some things that you're going to adopt today. And we see that there's actually an overall opposition that's behind some of the suggestions. Nor can I say that indicates that there is a broad consensus about that line of government now. Rather the opposite. Because it never happened in the last period, as far as I can remember, that the Progress Party, the Working Party, the Center Party and SV gathered about anything when a discussed oil matter. But that's clear to this opposition. And it shows which – in my opinion – poor settlement is based on some areas, and which one could do something about if the government parties were serious when they in their time invited the opposition to cooperation. Now we get a management plan that only 87 of 169 representatives feel a responsibility for, and we've already been demonstrated today that a number of the workers' party representatives who are forced to vote for it are now looking forward to taking a rematch on it as soon as possible. It is not the kind of long-term framework conditions that the oil industry should be dealing with, nor is it the kind of framework conditions that Nord-Norway should be dealing with – when even those who adopt the framework conditions are pleased to take a rematch. There are proposals in the case today that, if the government parties had looked at the Progress Party and the Right, they could get 148 votes in 169. Then one had a robust management plan, which had survived almost any government constellation. Unfortunately, we're not getting that right now. That means that the framework conditions that government parties are now boasting of are in place, yes, they will last a maximum of a few years. And if this government cracks before 2009, I'm sure they will already be reworked – for example. becomes a clean work party government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1639	The summary of Heidi Sørensen and Tore Nordtun is not adequate for the actual conditions. Until a short time ago there were many who assumed, on the assumption, that an arrangement for expansion in the northern regions would be balanced with petroleum-free areas. They based it on, among other things, that, in addition to the Christian People's Party and the Left, SV and the Center Party wanted it. One assumption that a balanced arrangement from a government in which some of these lots were present would also result in some areas becoming petroleum-free. So we're going to be able to agree with today's big thing that has to be characterised as a development plan that doesn't meet this need to balance the different considerations. Nor is it a plan that provides a long-term clarification, which many would have expected the plan to do. It has a time perspective for 2020. Realities are in areas such as: The Lofoten and the Vestral, that no one is going down from the barricades when we deal with the management plan, they're coming up. So there'll be no peace around important decisions. There will be a set-up for rematching and continuing fighting, for example. to Lophoth and the brook of the west. The picture drawn in relation to environmental exposure is that the Left and Christian People's Party are now left alone with positions that until a short time ago also had the SV and the Center Party. It is also an image of this treatment that what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that a desire to anchor decisions on petroleum activity in the north wide in the Stortinget is not a real will to seek a broad majority in areas where it should be possible. The fact that one will not be subject to binding decisions in respect of towing boat capacity, oil protection, etc. is an expression of this. I also note that I did not, either by the Minister for Fisheries or the Minister for the Environment, receive a reply as to whether they think the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left on zero emissions from land-based petroleum plants is an important proposal both to set a standard when granting permits from environmental authorities and in relation to fisheries interests. The hindrance to that question was that the environmental movement said that there was a scandal if not the SV and the Central Party voted in favour of this proposal. So there are important areas where the fight goes on and where there is disagreement. In some areas, we have been clarified, but not as many as we should have had with the level of ambition you had for the management plan when it started.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1652	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2871]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1672	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1692	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1708	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1717	The discussions on the social security settlement of the year between the Government and the organisations were held on 22 and 23 May this year. The organisations made a claim to adjust the basic amount by NOK 2418 from 1 May of this year, so that the basic amount was NOK 63 117. It meant a salary increase for pensioners of 3.75 pst. The government offered an increase of NOK 2 193, to a basic amount of NOK 62 892. That's what the parties agreed on, which meant an annual salary increase for the pensioners of 3.5 pst. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the Government’s proposals on social security settlement for 2006. In the event of an incurrency, the figures in the decision-making part were below the ceiling. 2652, item 70, in respect of the amount allocated, error. On 9 June 2006, the Committee received a letter from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion, where the error was corrected. The letter is attached to the setting. In 1967, the intention of the population was that full earnings should give 2/3 of the income. Today you get a little over 50 pst, which documents a significant historical aftermath. The majority of the population with the Workers' Party in the head has, according to the members of the Advance Party, failed completely by under-regulating pensions, as has been done. The Progress Party believes that the Stortinget is obliged to follow up the intentions set out in the 1966 referendum, and therefore proposes in the social security settlement of the year a escalating plan of 2.5 pst. per 1 % years in addition to annual developments based on wage developments. Today, married and cohabiting pensioners also experience that they are being punished by shortening the basic amount to 85 pst. by G. In other words, if you are married or live together, you are punished by reducing income per person. person with approx. 9 400 kroner. It is quite unreasonable, in our opinion, that married or cohabiting persons should be punished in such a way. The Progress Party will eliminate this unfairness and therefore proposes a stepping-up plan so that married and cohabiting pensioners are treated in the same way as single ones. According to the Pensioners’ Association, the income of the minimum pensioners before the social security bill of the year was DKK 6500 lower than the poverty line. If you add to the Government's proposal for social security settlement, a minimum pensioner will still have approx. $2,600 less than what is referred to as the poverty line. We know that many minimum pensioners have a very tight economic everyday life and cannot afford, among other things. for dinner every day – we have seen media headlines about – and can’t afford to pick up vital medicines either. Looking at statistics from 2003, it turns out that 6 pst. of the beneficiaries of social assistance, there are lone minimum pensioners, i.e. single minimum pensioners. We also know that nine out of ten minimum pensioners are women, and we know that over the years they have taken care of the home and the children while the fathers were out working and built the country after the war. So these people have done in many ways what today's kindergartens and SFOs do. The Progress Party also requires a stepping-up plan in the context of the State budget for 2007 to ensure that the minimum pensioners are paid in line with low-wage groups. I think it is unworthy that, in one of the richest countries in the world, there should be minimum pensioners living below what politicians themselves refer to as the poverty line. Had the proposals of the Progress Party for the social security settlement of the year been adopted, a single minimum pensioner would have had NOK 8 000 more. In addition, if the proposal of the Progress Party had been adopted during the examination of the State budget to increase the special supplement by NOK 5000, a minimum pensioner from 1 May and a year in the future would have about NOK 13 000 more in annual income. I think that would have been useful and long-term money for many minimum pensioners. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. One, two, three, four from the Progress Party. The suggestions are in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1736	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1739	The majority of the Committee is pleased that the parties have reached an agreement in the social security settlement of the year, and believes that it would be a little strange if the Stortinget were to enter into and review a concrete outcome of negotiations in a particular settlement. In that case, any changes should result from new guidelines, as examples of which have also been shown in the proposition have occurred earlier. But now it is also the case that the Storting with the very first of all gets a big message about our entire pension system, so there will be plenty of opportunities to discuss the pension system during the autumn coming. I see from the minority's comments that one places great emphasis on what one believes is an ever under-regulation of pensions and a great slowdown, especially for the lowest pensions, over almost the entire period of popular fear from 1967 until today, due to underregulation of G. I really think it's a bit of a shame that such a general claim has been allowed to get attached. As part of this picture, it should also be noted that when the principles for the regulation of the basic amount were laid down, the minimum pension was identical to the basic amount. When considering the development of the minimum pensions, one must also take into account that the special supplement scheme was introduced in 1969 and that the special supplement has been subject to an autonomous adjustment from 7,5 pst. by G i 1969 to the current level of 79,33 pst, respectively. and 74 pst. by G. The picture also includes that before the social security settlement in 2003, the Stortinget clarified the guidelines for the regulation of pensions, that the 2002 underregulation was corrected, that the guidelines were followed both in 2004 and 2005, and I think it is quite natural that the new majority government follows the regulation rules adopted by the Stortinget, as has happened in the year’s settlement. In addition, parts of the so-called underregulation when one sees all pensions as a whole, including those with supplementary pensions, have also been agreed with the pensioners' organisations, because at the same time it has given room for redistribution between pensioners, from those with high to those with low pensions. It also happens that married people and cohabitants actually have improved their pensions. One may well have as a future goal that one should have individual benefits and that there should be no difference, but the danger is that one forgets the lonely pensioners, because that is after all the most difficult ones. This is my first period at Stortinget, but I have let myself tell more experienced representatives that it is a certain year-round phenomenon that we are now witnessing, and that the progressive minority proposals of the Progress Party in social security settlement have a certain ritual impact. Now it is true that the Progress Party in the previous period for three of the four years was part of a budgetary settlement in the Stortingen, but they have, despite that, not been able to get an impact on their proposals in this area. And at the end of the day, it is probably the capacity for implementation that is at stake in the policy. One final point, which I would like to include: Of course, the proposals of the Advancement Party can be very tempting. Asked the question, ‘Do you want more money?’, most people will probably answer yes. But there is another side to this that is not fully visible in this matter, but no less important. Where the Progress Party wants to liberalise well-being, cash in hand, while you have to buy services yourself in a market, the red-greens are different priorities, with greater emphasis on a public service offer for all, regardless of the wallet for the individual. We see it in family policy, we also see it here in the old age policy. When you have to go out and buy older services in a market, a lot of people will quickly discover that the calculation is going to be negative, and that we are no longer talking about what is a constant issue of local government policy today, which is how high a percentage you have to pay when you might have to cover the entire cost in a private market. I also think that's part of the picture. The weighting – services or money – and where is that balance? There we have a fundamental disagreement. There is a lot of wisdom in old sayings – one of them says: ‘There is not gold that shines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1756	The social security scheme did not create the largest headings of the year's income statement, but is, nevertheless, the single line that affects most people. The Government's proposals for the Storting show that there are nearly 1 million people who have a pension/transitional benefit from popular security as income. 279,000 of these are the minimum pensioners. The social security settlement partners have come up with a recommended proposal for social security settlement through the regulation of the basic amount of social security by 3.5 p.m. or the same as assumed wage growth in society in general. So it gives people who have income from retirement in the population, a percentage equal income development with the rest of the population, and fortunately a real wage development, because we still have a low price increase. There's no reason to argue that our many minimum pensioners with this are guaranteed a good economy. That's not what we're looking at today. We all recognise, I think, that the minimum pension, which is going to be $12,2,788, gives limited elbow space, even with favourable tax rules for pensioners. Tomorrow, we may well reduce the proportion of healthcare. However, the fact that the parties to the settlement have reached a agreed agreement means that we can adopt a social security settlement that is consistent with the assumptions made by the Storting and that it is an acceptable result, both for those covered by the settlement and for those who have negotiated it. When I took the floor, it was also to comment on one of the proposals of the Progress Party that we have previously co-existed with the Progress Party. From 2002 onwards, we have put forward proposals asking the government to present a phasing out plan to ensure that full-earned pensions in social security represent two-thirds of employee income. Our proposals refer to the fact that this was the intention when the popular fear was adopted in 1966. Following the decision of the Storting on the implementation of pension reform, it is no longer appropriate to discuss pension developments on the basis of the Storting decision on the establishment of the population in 1966. We are now facing a number of changes in the Law on Social Security and have also adopted the introduction of compulsory occupational pensions. We can therefore no longer see that it is natural to support such a proposal. Now we have to wait for the treatments that come with regard to the future popular security. That's what's going to apply, no matter what we say about the second one right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1769	Social security provision is of major importance to almost a quarter of the country's population and is thus one of the most important negotiations on income carried out this year. The Government and the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the Organisation of Disabled Persons, LO, the Forum of Disability Organisations, UNIO, YS and the Academics have agreed in discussions to increase the basic amount by NOK 2 193 to NOK 62 892 from 1 May, which has previously been explained here today. A minimum pensioner will then receive a salary increase of 3.5 pst. and will get NOK 112 788 per year. The poverty limit in Norway is set according to the OECD standard, which means that if you have less than $88 000 to live for, you will be counted as poor. However, using the EU standard of poverty is a poor one if you have paid less than NOK 127 000. Now I'm not going to go into a long debate about who's poor or not here in the country, but I'm going to point out that some of those who have the least today are the minimum pensioners. The pension is their only income, and they have a very limited possibility of other income. The left stated in our meeting that we would increase the minimum pension to twice the basic amount. That is why, in the Committee's position, we have put forward a separate proposal asking the Government to submit an obliging plan for a minimum pension up to twice the basic amount. However, this has to be seen in the context of the choice of the profit model in the public interest, and the Government has announced that it will present to the Stortinget a matter of that in the near future. We are thus promoting this proposal because the Left believes that if we are to be able to solve the poverty problem, we must have measures aimed at those who need it the most. Living for NOK 112 788 this year is definitely not easy, especially if you're lonely. That's why the Left wants us to get a raise for the elderly who are currently living on the minimum pension during this ageing period. That promise, to increase the minimum pension to twice the basic amount, is a raise left might seem to stand alone at first. Finally, I am promoting the Left's proposal that the Storting asks the Government to submit an obliging plan for a minimum pension up to twice the basic amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15.ana.ud2170e1780	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox That's when the regulatory time for the morning meeting is over. [[Fotation, see page 2873]] The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
