ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e43	The representative Bent Höie will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e46	I would like to propose, on behalf of the big business representatives Ivar Kristiansen and myself, to change the conditions for “special reasons” for exemption under Section 7 of the Planning and Building Act to make it easier for municipalities to make local policy judgement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e51	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e65	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Bjørg Tørresdal, on behalf of the rapporteur, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e76	Parenting is a lifelong project. Parents have an important role to play in children’s lives and development. Therefore, it is important for children to have good contact with both their parents, regardless of whether they live together or not. Mother and father are basically equivalent caregivers for the child. It is a social responsibility to ensure that the interests of children are properly taken into account, regardless of the parent’s life. The proposed amendments to the Children’s Act include: intending to strengthen the rights of children to the best possible overall contact with parents and to be protected from abuse. The proposals made in this proposition are in accordance with the Ot.prp proposal. No 103, which was presented by the Bondevik II Government. In most cases, it is best for the child to keep in touch and to stay together with both parents. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is not in the best interests of the child that parents of common children stop cooperating on the welfare of the child. A responsible parent is not limited in time, but commits both parents even if the relationship between them ceases. The best interests of the child are the main objective of the proposed amendment of the law, and it is also the aim of the amendment to the law to lead parents as a group to agree more togetherness, to strengthen the role of fathers as carers as a result of this change, and to attach emphasis to the children's relationship with the local environment. The proposal is a clear improvement in today's regulations, because the law that we are adopting today will better protect children from care failure and abuse. The leaders introduced by the term ‘usual association’ are involved in ensuring association at all. Many parents experience the definition of ‘usual association’ as a minimum standard. In those cases where it is best for the child to have an association, the definition of ‘usual association’ should be a minimum of contact. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the conversion of the mediation system. These changes will provide the brokers with a better opportunity to help their parents with major conflicts to reach an agreement that provides the basis for the best possible cooperation on common children. An overall committee also supports mandatory mediation for consensual residents with children under 16. The proposal was discussed in the family communication and ensures that children born of cohabiting parents should not be discriminated against in relation to children born of married parents. It is a fundamental objective that children should be given good and prudent care and not be subjected to abuse. A typical feature of violence and assault on women and children in the family is the invisibility. It is related to the fact that the actions take place in the home and with the family as the arena, which has helped to privatize the violence. It is important to stress that family violence is not a private matter. In order to protect children from both direct physical abuse and sexual abuse and from witnessing violence, the former government of Bondevik set down a working group. The work group’s proposals form the basis for the proposed measures to protect children and young people from abuse. These include: as proposed in the legislative text that the decision on parental responsibility, permanent residence and association should take into account the fact that the child must not be subject to abuse. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee believes that the need to protect children from the adverse effects of possible future abuses must initially outweigh the consideration of potential adverse effects by losing contact with one of the parents. Furthermore, it is fully agreed that if there is no good association for the child, there should be no association. At the same time, it is an important task for the courts to detect allegations of violence and abuse that are unsustainable. The Party of Advancement is sceptical about the use of the term ‘best’ in the Children’s Act because they do not want the courts to use discretion. If the aim is to avoid using discretion, you will not be able to capture the individual needs of any child or family. The Courts must always weigh different considerations against each other. The Christian People's Party does not want the goal of good law to be for children regardless of age, commitment and own desires to live just as much with both parents. The courts must have the opportunity to assess how the situation can be optimised for this very specific child in this particular family. The best of children is also a central concept of Norwegian and foreign child law as well as of international conventions dealing with children. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e95	The changes in the child law made by Odelstinget today ensure that the care of the children is taken even better than it has been until now. We are making changes in different areas, and in very different areas, and there is in no way a total review of the child law we are making. We make changes in areas such as issues such as the extent of community involvement following divorce, strengthening the mediation system, measures to protect children from abuse and the reimbursement of child benefits. Today, fathers spend more time caring for children than before, and therefore, after a break in their lives, it is natural that fathers still want to have a close relationship with their children and be an attending father. Modernisation of the Children’s Act to take greater account of the greatest possible contact with both parents after a breakup is therefore incredibly important. Studies also show that in families where there has been a sharing of care for their children before the breakup of life, it is easier to find well-shared solutions even after a breakup. In practice, this means that when there is more equality at home, there will also be fewer conflicts. In recent days, attention has been drawn to the Committee's proposal that the extent to which children are related to the local environment should also be important in assessing the extent of association. Let me make it clear that there is a unanimous committee behind that change. It must also be pointed out that our proposal must in no way be regarded as a removal ban. First, parents can freely agree to this, and as long as they agree, parents can settle wherever they want. Secondly, in agreeing to the extent of association, attention shall be paid to a number of issues and the proposal of the Committee to take into account the extent to which the child is related to the local environment is one of them. In addition, account must be taken of the need to maximise parental contact, taking into account the age of the child, the extent to which, as I said, the child is related to the local environment, the distance between parents and the care of the child. In the case of older children, the relationship with the community will be of great importance. The association with the community has been established to avoid the use of children in a conflict between parents. Children shall not be used as a package. This change is made primarily to ensure the rights of children. This is often forgotten in the debate on the Children’s Act. Many parents want their rights to be guaranteed, but the Children’s Act is there to ensure children’s rights, and to help parents focus on the best of their children when the breakup is a fact and the association is to be agreed. The majority of the Committee is in favour of maintaining the norm for association which is based every two weekends, one day in a week and fourteen days in a vacation. However, the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party believe that today’s standard of association is not good enough, because it gives children less association with one of the parents. We therefore ask the Government to assess the standard of community so that the child’s association with both parents is more equally distributed. We hope that the government will return to Stortinget with this matter on an appropriate occasion. The changes we are making today in the Children's Act will be in the best interests of children. There are no changes that put parents in focus, but there are changes that put the child in focus, and that's the line Stortinget and the committee all the time want to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e116	The party will stress that it is of great importance for children to have good contact with both their parents, even after a break in their lives. Children must not be used as weapons in a conflict between their parents. Most children want equal association with both parents, and this must be done unless there are specific reasons for a different solution. The Progress Party believes that the most appropriate thing for child-distribution matters is that the general rule must be that both parents automatically receive care by separation. This in itself is anti-conflict, and it can prevent the child from becoming part of a long-term battle. Moreover, the Progress Party is pleased that the majority are changing something in the law, so that it is not so easy to move over long distances and move the child up from its habitual environment and its accustomed school. This gives us our subsidiary support. We also believe that more attention needs to be paid to the role of professionals in child distribution matters. From a number of quarters, it is claimed that professionals are starting from a perspective that makes equality between father and mother more difficult. In the opinion of the FMO, it is said, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘When psychologists do not recognise parents on equal terms and do not rarely have a preference for mothers’ special status in children’s lives, it makes no sense to talk about working together.’ Another important theme: The Progress Party believes that the proposition lacks solutions to one of the main problems of today’s family policy, namely co-ordination. The Progress Party believes that this problem must be tackled more actively. We therefore propose that concrete measures against co-ordination should be investigated and presented. Such sabotage should have implications for the distribution of children. The Party has taken note of the proposal to strengthen the mediation mechanism by extending it up to seven hours in cases where it is considered possible to reach agreement. Such a tip of the arrangement is good! However, we believe that the mediation mechanism cannot be assessed solely on the basis of the number of employees and the hourly consumption. It is not always the case that more professionals and more money lead to fewer and more damper conflicts. We believe that there is often a lack of competence that is the problem in mediation. A review of the mediation apparatus should therefore be carried out, with a particular focus on quality and methodology. It must be clear that in cases where children are subjected to violence or abuse — and/or there is a significant risk of this happening in the future — this must be taken into account in child distribution cases. However, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that in some cases false claims of violence and abuse are made to discredit one of the parents. This is very serious. Getting an incorrect assault claim put out is very stigmatizing and can be a big problem in both work and private life. The party of progress sees it as a serious crime to make such false claims, and believes that the reactions to such issues must be strengthened significantly. Otherwise, we believe that there is a weakness in the proposition that a type of assault that is not mentioned is the kind of mental violence that children are exposed to in matters of parental anti-discrimination – Parental Alienation Syndrome, PAS. There is a significant need for research to increase the competence of Norwegian professionals, and in this context the Progress Party has made proposals. Many men have been convicted of a false danger over time or have recognized a false danger. In a not insignificant part of these matters, it is likely that it has been done under pressure. It also seems quite clear that there are also many dangers that have been wrongly determined according to the Father-est-rule. Some claim that 10 pst. of the Norwegian population may be registered with the wrong father. As a legislator and a judge, the state has had a great responsibility in determining its fatherhood. Following the adoption by the Storting of amendments to the Children’s Act, which entered into force on 1 April 2003, which now allows all parties to resume the proceedings, many dangers have been overturned. It now turns out that there is a need to remedy the financial damage caused by these fathers on the part of the State. That is why we have taken up proposals in line with the demands made by the Support Group for convicted fathers. Finally, I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party, and if they are not to be reached, we will give our subsidiary support to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e147	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e150	We are dealing with a case that involves very different aspects: the extent of association in the event of a break in life, the strengthening of the mediation system, measures to protect children from abuse, parental responsibility after death and the rules for the reimbursement of child contributions where the danger changes. There are many different themes we're going to cover, and there's a lot to say about them all. But I think we might have to focus on some people within the context of speaking time. We can see that at the bottom there is broad consensus – across the board – in relation to the fact that these are rules that will consistently serve the consideration that is most important in all matters where children are parties, namely, the consideration of the child's best interests. So let's have that as the big headline! In the case of community arrangements, there has been a point — and it is felt that the Right is very important — that flexibility is provided for in the families. It is the individual families, the individuals involved, who know best how to arrange their everyday life in a practical way so that you can get together to work. And we all know that there are seven days a week. We need to find schemes that work on Monday, Wednesday and busy days – it needs to be picked up, and it needs to be brought. So you have to have flexibility to make this work, and the peace and stability around it may be the most important thing for children. These objectives should theoretically perhaps imply that they were in favour of repealing the legal definition, because it sets a framework in itself. When the Right nevertheless believes it is important to hold it, it is in the light of the fact that it applies primarily in the difficult cases. In those cases, we believe that the legal definition adds a standard that will provide support in the conversations that are taking place between the parties – and also those that are brokers, or third parties involved – to actually achieve a relationship that could be better than what would otherwise have been achieved. We also believe that such a signal from the public as a legal definition is, will actually act as a barrier to conflict. To the right, the provisions in relation to the protection of children from abuse are very important. Children are vermin in relation to violence and abuse in close relationships, and it is precisely in those relationships where not only physical violence but also mental violence, that the abuses become very ugly. The sense of security is one of the most important things we have in life. It can easily be robbed, but it's very difficult to get back. Of the measures proposed, we pay particular attention to those that are practical, for example: the right of the courts to appoint a supervisor and the possibility of obtaining a notional identity and blocked address. Otherwise, we support the facts that are changing the mediation institute, and the creation proposed in relation to persons who are exempt from danger. We also believe that the theme fathers is something we should get back to by many crossroads in the future. There may be little doubt that many people feel that they have come out difficult – and I use the words ‘difficult’ and not ‘bad out’ – in relation to agreements and in relation to how you get things to work. I hope the Council of State has it with it, and I am convinced that she has it. The right is satisfied that we are now adopting these rules with a great deal of consensus. But there are signs in the air here that you want to make an assessment of the community standards as such. It is clear that if you go into a completely new standard of association – i.e. if you go into shared care as a general rule – you will have to put the cabal back on board throughout the legislation. I hope that the flexible arrangements we have, for example. have added up in terms of association, will be allowed to work, and that we can draw lessons from it before we give up drawing a new map of something that we, after all, do not know.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e169	Today, we are dealing with various changes to the Children’s Act. The proposals concern the extent of association, the strengthening of the mediation system, measures to protect children from abuse, parental responsibility after death and the rules for the reimbursement of child contributions where the danger changes – many different issues which individually have consequences for many children and parents. There are few things that so much interfere with the lives of individuals, and that engage so much. It is therefore important that what is communicated is correct information. We've been in the media in the last few days having a storm against us, for example. have proposed a legal text which means a removal ban on parents. We don't! What we are proposing and emphasising in association is that children should have good contact with both parents, and we stress that the arrangements for getting together must assume that mother and father are equivalent caregivers for the child. The law also clearly indicates that there are individual considerations that should be decisive in the conclusion or determination of association and that the best possible overall contact between parents is the objective. We have incorporated child conventions into Norwegian law. In the previous period, The Storting decided that children up to seven years of age should be heard in child distribution cases and that what the child says should be given weight according to age and maturity. It is natural, for example, to: the child’s relationship with the local environment is assessed when establishing association. Young children will be less related to the local environment, while for older children, school and friends will usually be more important. During the previous period, the size decided to repeal the law’s definition of normal rights of access. SV believes that today's law is not good enough, and we now ask the government parties to come back with a case about this. With regard to the mediation mechanism, it is important that the aim of mediation is that the agreement provides the basis for optimal cooperation, with the child’s best in focus. Many children experience a difficult situation in the conflict between their parents. It is important for children to avoid this strain and for adults to reach agreement as far as possible on care and association. It's the responsibility of adults to get the best solutions for their children. The mediation mechanism is therefore proposed to be strengthened and extended by up to seven hours in cases where agreement is possible. This is good. Account shall be taken of the fact that the child must not be subjected to abuse in matters of parental responsibility, permanent residence and association. The right of parents to have relations with the children shall not be at the expense of the best interests of the child. In this context, it is a very important task for the courts to reveal allegations of violence and abuse that are unsustainable. False accusations of justice could lead to criminal liability and, in addition, negatively affect the possibilities of winning out in a child-sharing case. If association is not for the best of the child, it should not be an affair. In these cases, consultation with the child is important, and it is important that those hearing the child have good child-care skills. Here we look forward to establishing a Barnas House in Norway, which will probably increase the competence of hearing children. The proposal that a parent who has not had parental responsibility and is intended or accused of killing the other parent, not automatically receiving parental responsibility, is important and is supported by the entire Committee. The Socialist Left believes that it is good that a mechanism be introduced for the refund of contributions, which means that the impairment of the money value from the contribution was first paid and until it is refunded. It has been a great burden both economically and psychologically for many men to be misjudged as fathers. Fortunately, this will not happen to the same extent in the future, after we have changed the law on DNA testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e186	Born and young people are the most important resource we have in society. The pursuit of well-being, security and development in the world and in the community is important for children, and it is important that child-care legislation has a clear focus on children’s best interests. Today, we are debating changes in laws that are important both for children and for many parents. Among other things, we handle promises that will provide children with a stronger protection against abuse. It is an area in which we must also have a strong focus in the political work ahead. It can be a difficult and bad process, and then it's important to have a code that looks at the children's best in focus. Good brokering arrangements are a good way to mitigate the level of conflict and to ensure good solutions for both children and parents. We are strengthening this system today, and it is joyous. In the vast majority of cases where parents separate teams, it is best for children to have good contact with both parents. How to organise this contact is up to parents to decide. If parents don’t get along, it’s a matter for the judiciary, and then it’s important that the law states that both parents have responsibility and care for the children even after a break in life. I registered that the representative Tørersdal from the Christian People's Party said in his post that the norm of community should be to see as a minimum association. The intention of the Christian People's Party is certainly good, but often community norms do not provide a good answer to how to organize association. One of the reasons for this might be, for example: long distances. On the other hand, norms can be an obstacle, limiting association where one parent wants more association or association organized in another way. Therefore, it is important and right to have a reassessment of the standards of association. We have experienced that this field of action arouses great commitment and strong feelings. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee is broadly in agreement with the changes that we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e201	The proposals for today’s changes will mean that children’s law is much more adapted to the society in which we live. As Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I want to work for a more equal parenthood. Of course, the best thing is whether the best interests of the child and the need for maximum contact between both parents can be combined. My starting point is that, as a general rule, the child should have contact with both parents even after a breakup. Of course, if this is not compatible with the best interests of the child, consideration for the child must be given first. There is no political disagreement that it is good for fathers to take more responsibility and care for their own children after a breakup. When parents do not live together, it is important that things work together, and that both act as caregivers for the children they have together. We see a social development in which men want more association. That's good! Experience has shown that parents who have cooperated well and shared care tasks before a breakup are also more likely to cooperate afterwards. This contributes to fewer conflicts in the legal system. In this respect, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee so clearly points out the need to consider changing the standard of association so that the child's association with both parents is more equally distributed. I am pleased that an overall committee raises the child’s relationship with the local environment as an important assessment theme for assessing the best of the child in these matters. It is important to stress what several of the representatives have been involved in, that this is something other than a removal ban. One way to resolve conflicts is that all parents who move away are obliged to meet for mediation. The proposal proposes to extend forced mediation to cohabiters, while making the mediation system more targeted. I believe that this proposal will help parents to arrive at agreements on children and prevent the conflict from developing. There are cases where it is not good for children to have contact with one of the parents or where contact has to be limited. Violence and family abuse are a social problem, and both the representative Tørresdal and the representative Knudsen were involved in this in their contributions. We know that this causes great adverse effects for children. The law will now provide better protection for children in these matters as regards parental responsibility, permanent residence and association. Let it be clear: in such situations, the protection of the child shall be brought forward as the most important. Also, in cases where one parent may have killed the other, the proposition contains changes that will take better care of the child than at present, and that will help to avoid situations that are perceived as offensive to the relatives. I'm glad that Odelstingen joins these changes, which will help to strengthen the child's legal certainty in difficult matters. I would also like to stress that these measures deal with the specific situations in which the child is at risk of being abused, and do not change the basic principle that it is normally of great value for the child to be in contact with both parents even when they live separately. It is important that parents can cooperate well and share care for their children, whether they live in a traditional nuclear family or otherwise. As a society, we need to be more good at helping those parents who, through their own conflict, make the situation extra difficult for the children. Then we must succeed in getting parents to accept that a person experiences as a bad partner, yet can be a good parent. The child and both parents must experience that they are being taken seriously in these difficult matters. I believe that the changes that Odelstinget is dealing with today are a step in the right direction, and that they will help to make children's law more adapted to the diversity of family types that make up the Norwegian society. Finally, I would like to say that in the case of the nine proposals promoted by the Progress Party, I would like to take a close look at them when we go in and look at an evaluation of the Children's Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e218	It's going to be line change. The President notes that, on the basis of new guidelines, the lines are taken from the interlocutors down the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e224	I thank you for that reminder. The Progress Party believes, as it emerged from my main post, that the most appropriate solution in child distribution matters is shared care. There are many countries that have looked at this solution. Now I registered by the post of the representative Olemic Thommessen from the Right that this was both difficult to get to and something that was perhaps almost impossible. I guess it's nothing new that the Right is a conservative party that's having a hard time reconnaissance. I perceive that the Council of State is many more open to thinking new, and also concerned with equality between mother and father. My question to the Council of State is: Will care sharing be part of the investigation process that she outlined at the end of her article?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e235	First, I want to say that the starting point for a review of the Children's Act will be the best of the child. As an active women's politician for many years, I have worked to make the father's role much clearer, and that Dad's rights should be much clearer. That's what you've meant when you've lived together in a community. That's why the government is now going in to get an extension of the dad's quota of 10 weeks. Of course, it is also natural for Dad to have the opportunity to get together with his child after a breakup is a fact. At the same time, we know that the political divisions intersect across all parties. We need to have a review of the matter. I can't forge what will be the Government's final decision today, but I can promise that the Council of State will take this seriously. I want to highlight all the aspects of it, and I also see that many of the proposals that the Progress Party has put forward today are worth going into and considering in a serious and proper way by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e240	You should listen to those who are carriers of the long lines, especially when it's children, because here it's the long lines that count. So to this with the community norm. The government in the press has also signaled that she would like to see today’s arrangement changed. Now we see from the comments and hear from the red-green parties that you want this assessed and investigated. To what extent – if it is possible to ask the question like this – has this been decided? The councils in the press have taken a position on this, as I have seen. I would like to know if she can confirm here that it is actually such that we are now preparing for shared care to become the main rule when the matter is presented. If so, when can we expect such a case to be submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e247	As I said in my previous answer, we have now started the job of going through the Children's Act. We are taking seriously the very unique signal that Stortinget is giving today in relation to community standards. The government will follow up and do some work on it. But I ask for understanding that in this case is the heavy, serious balances we have to make, and we take them seriously. I also believe that these questions are very complicated to deal with politically, because this is about the most intimate and sensitive of human lives. The children are the dearest one has, and when there is then conflict and struggle about the children, it is quite natural that this is difficult for many. That is why we should also take the matter seriously. I cannot attest today to what the final outcome of the government's work will be, but I just want to refer to the answer I gave to the representative Knudsen instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e252	I would like to ask the Council of State two questions. One is a yes/no question, so I expect to be able to clarify it. There has been a rather strange debate about a unanimous comment by the Committee on the importance of residence. That's why I just want to ask if the Council can confirm that she agrees with Gunn Karin Gjul's definition of that comment, when she's going to put this into action. So to the second question. It is clear that the comments of the government parties on more equal treatment of parents with regard to the allocation of time have created some confusion. I understand that the Council of State cannot prejudge the matter, but with regard to the comment that the Left and the Advance Party are united, that parents must be treated more equally, I would like to confirm that there is a value that the Council of State shares, because it is clear that child law must change all the time as society's standards change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e259	On question No. 1 I can say a clear yes. I fully support what Gjul has said in the public space at this point. As regards question No: 2, if more equal distribution of time, there's no disagreement on that piece. Both through posts in the hall and in previous answers, I have stated that it is clear that we need to have more equivalent treatment for the parenthood.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e264	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e269	So far in the debate, there has been little about the misjudged fathers. As I also said in my main post, it seems clear that there are many dangers that have been misdefined, and there are some who claim that 10 pst. of the Norwegian population may be registered with the wrong father. The state as a legislator and a judge has always had overall responsibility for determining fatherhood in Norway. From a number of points of view, the fact that the fatherhood was properly established did not seem to be so central to the authorities; it was more important to find a eligible father. This, together with the mother being the party that the court often had the greatest confidence in, led to many errors. The Progress Party is very pleased that the Storting adopted the amendments to the Children’s Act that came into force on 1 April 2003, which gave all parties to a farce the opportunity to request the case resumed and clarified by DNA testing. This was a proposal from the Progress Party which we had repeatedly promoted in the Stortinget. The consequences of legislation are that many false hazards have been identified. So far, however, a convicted father will only be refunded the money he has paid in a child contribution in kroner. Many misjudged fathers have had other major economic outlays and have been subjected to considerable mental stress. Many men have been deprived of money by the State on a faulty basis and at least an economic compensation must be provided in the form of interest or indexation. It should also be possible to cover other financial expenses, such as legal expenses. The Progress Party supports the claim of the Badly Judged Fedre Support Group that those who have been granted permanent but should be compensated. We now think it's time for justice for the convicted fathers. Another aspect of this case is that a faulty danger also provides a basis for inheritance being granted to persons who should not initially have a right to it, and many do not receive the inheritance they are entitled to. This should also be amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e282	I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply in the reply to the reply was not finally and blatant in the question of community standards. But I've also noticed what the majority in this room means, and we can well have an expectation. I just want to give the Council some words on the way to that work. It's the way children should be heard. It's an important principle. Children should be heard – and not just heard, they should be listened to, and you should do as they say. It has also been said so correctly from the representative May Hansen that it is the responsibility of adults to get the best solutions for their children. Then I would like to pass on a line taken from the backseat in the car while you were sitting and listening to a program where this theme was discussed, and where there were questions about children travelling here and there. So the line came: maybe it would have been just as nice if it were the moms and dads who had to travel? It might be thoughtful, because when we discuss things where we have – I say – the shirt on, it's not always as easy to distinguish what is really for the child's best. Also, when you take the driving role in a gender equality debate, I think you might want to think a little bit about – whether equality is always at the best of the child. If you see the two grounds of consideration isolated, maybe it's not like that. Sometimes I think you might also think: what is the seventh and last thing that matters? Is the importance of being a driver for equality, for example, or – to take an arena belonging to my political section – freedom of choice, always balanced against the best interests of the child? In many areas, there will be coincidences. One will not contradict the other. But I think anyway, when we come to the question of living in the back, how many of us adults would like to see life if we were to move from one address to another, one week after another? But it is our responsibility to find the best solution, and it is the child's best that is the most important. So let's leave it hanging again if maybe the moms and dads might as well be able to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e309	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines after the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e318	Today, we are dealing with the law on changes in the legislation on pregnancy, childbirth and adoption. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that the consensus is so great in the committee. The changes will simplify the law, and this will give more flexibility to parents. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good work. In its comments, the Committee stresses the importance of simplification in legislation on pregnancy, childbirth and adoption. These changes will provide extended, more flexible and organised benefits to parents and will provide a simplified regulatory framework, which will be more easily accessible to parents while facilitating the practice of the social security system. In addition, as I said, it will increase the family's freedom of choice. The Committee also considers that it is a good proposal to introduce the concept of parental leave to replace the concepts of maternity and adoption benefits, as it is the same performance as it is concerned. As rapporteur-in-Office of the Council and as a midwife, I would like to stress the importance of changing the law so that maternity benefits are now to be granted the right to holiday pay. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and the undersigned proposed this in the previous ageing period. Today's rules mean that the woman gets worse financially if she takes out maternity money than if she's sickened in her pregnancy. As long as maternity benefits have not given wages for holidays, many women have wanted to get sick. This is unfortunate, as the woman is not ill. This also has an unfortunate impact on female health insurance statistics. The reason the woman is unable to work in pregnancy is that the child may suffer from the fact that she is working. It is also important to stimulate the increased use of maternity benefits, so that the foetus is not adversely affected by pregnancy. The scheme applies to women working in an environment that is at risk of foetal development and where it is not possible to relocate the woman. This will also increase the pressure on employers to try to redeploy women in pregnancy. Parties to the Government oppose the proposal to grant entitlement to the withdrawal of the parental quota during the first six weeks after birth. We propose that today's practice be maintained. There is disagreement in the committee. When you open up simultaneous withdrawals for mother and father, the total benefit period will be shortened. This is not desirable when looking at the child’s needs. It is important from a family and gender perspective to give both parents the right and opportunity to be at home and provide care for their children in the first year of life. If mother needs help because of illness after birth, she may be sick, and father may take out leave. This is ensured by existing legislation and by proposals for new legislation. I would like to stress that the father quota was introduced in order for fathers to take a more active part in the care of the child's first year of life. It is important that father is stimulated to be at home alone with the child and take the main care. The Committee supports the restriction of the current derogation for ancestral allowances in order to allow the granting of a derogation from the parental quota only where hazards are prevented from taking care of the child due to sickness or injury. It is also good to allow for a longer and more flexible distribution of the spring quota. We are also pleased that a more flexible system of graduated parental pension withdrawals is now in place, which will make it easier to combine work and child care in the first year of life of the child. The aim is for the scheme to act as an equal opportunities policy and to be attractive to fathers. The aim is to contribute to increased feather withdrawals. This will mean that employers will have to be more flexible and that men will also care for children. Then I would like to point out that in case of an incursion, there have been two errors in the setting. On page 5, in the middle of the page under section 14-10, it says “see section 14-9, second paragraph”; it says “see section 14-9, fourth paragraph”. Same thing on page 8. In § 14-10, at the end of the first paragraph, it says “see § 14-9, second paragraph”; it says “see § 14-9, fourth paragraph”.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e344	It's going to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e347	I think it is important to stress that the scheme we are discussing today is one of the world's best maternity leave schemes. This scheme is very important to ensure the participation of women in employment; it is a scheme that contributes to Norway’s being at the European top in terms of birth rates, and it contributes to the very good condition of Norwegian children during its first year of life. The changes we are making today in the law on birth money are modernisations and simplifications. Firstly, we change the name of the scheme from birth and adoption money to parental pension. It may look like a minor change, but it's not, because it gives a clear and clear signal that this money isn't just mom's money, but parents' money. My hope is that this, along with the other changes we are now making, will help Dad to take out a larger part of the maternity leave. We know that over 90 pst. Of the fathers today, the fathers' quota is five weeks, but unfortunately it's a sad fact that there's a very small proportion of the fathers who take out something more than these five weeks. I think both mother and children are well served that father takes out a larger part of the leave. The child needs to be familiar with and closely associated with both parents. Only when Father is allowed to be alone with the child and has responsibility alone will he have a real close relationship with his child. But Mother too is well-deserved that Father takes a greater part of the leave. This leads to more equality at home and that fathers take more responsibility when both are back to work and the time frame takes over. The Time Account Scheme is now proposed to be simplified. The graduated birth grant scheme and the Time Account Scheme are proposed to be merged and simplified. The current time account system was introduced in 1994, but unfortunately it has been very little used, despite the fact that it is a fantastic good system. The reason is that the scheme has been both rigid and complicated. But now it is said that the parental killers can be taken very flexibly through – call it what you want – the new timing system or graduated birth money. The only exception is that three weeks before birth and six weeks after birth cannot be taken out flexibly. It now opens up so that parents can combine it more closely with being at home with a newborn child and working. In this way, leave can also be taken over a longer period of time and until the third year of life of the child. In one area, there is disagreement within the Committee. The majority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre do not support the proposal that the spring quota be taken into account in the first six weeks after birth, at the same time as the mother is at home. The meaning of the father's quota is that father should have time alone with his child. He does not get that if the leave is taken out in the first six weeks, when the mother is at home on leave anyway. The goal must be that father should take more leave and have more time alone with the child. This is a proposal that could lead in the opposite direction. Another element is that the Work Environment Act gives all newly-baked fathers the right to leave without pay the first two weeks after birth. All employees in the public sector are paid during this period of leave, while there are large variations in the private sector. If the father quota can be withdrawn during the first six weeks, the Workers' Party is afraid that it will destroy the possibilities of winning against those employers who do not pay during leave. All in all, the changes we are making today will help us to have a more modern and flexible maternity leave system, which is already the best in the world today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e362	We perceive that this matter is largely about technical changes as well as some minor improvements to the scheme. We agree with that, with some comments, some reservations and some amendments. As we can see from our remarks, we would have wished that more of the management of this had been up to the parents, among others. by taking out the parental allowance for the first six weeks. We believe that parents themselves have to choose when and how they want to withdraw their respective quotas, and that politicians have to be less eager to rule. At the same time, we will express concern that an extension of rights will be a new burden for employers. It is already tough enough to be an employer in Norway, and a red-green government is not going to be much easier. With this, I would like to address the proposal on which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e376	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e379	The approach to much of what we address in this matter is simplification of legislation and better performance, and there are good principles when dealing with laws. So, there's always a lot of good in this. It is true, as the representative Gjul says, that almost the only – but not the only – batches disagree, is the extent to which newly-baked parents should have full choice as to how to withdraw the parental quota. It is on the right to maintain the Bondevik Government’s proposal that the feather quota be available for collection within the first six weeks, if the parents so wish. When I hear the argument of May Hansen that it is necessary for fathers to be alone with the child in order to get it done, it is a father vision that I must really say that I am almost offended by. We're not in the 1960s anymore, nor in the 1970s. Once it was such that fathers became a bit flattering in their eyes and sweat and warmth if they were to change diapers. It's not like that anymore. The fathers of today actually want to have the best relationship with their children. Today's fathers relate to children as naturally as mothers do. I am absolutely convinced that all, most fathers will be able to find out how best to find the best within each family the first weeks after the great thing has happened that you have had a child. When you say that the child's experience of this, i.e. the child's best, suggests that parents should be absolutely separate, I also have to wonder: What survey has been conducted among newborns to find out exactly how the child feels about the presence of one parent or another? Frankly, everyone who has children knows this is nonsense. The first weeks after a child is born, it's about creating peace and harmony, a good feeling in the house, a good vibration around the little child that's there. It's about giving room for the warming experience that it's for all parties to take in the experience of having children, and making it their own. No one should come and tell me that one should be able to make a norm in order to experience this separately, necessarily better than to experience it together. I think that in that case is a rather arrogant approach given all the parents involved. I want to get back to the topic in the previous case. When the driving role in gender equality, or in other important issues, is balanced against the best of the child, or in this context, it might as well be the best of the family, when is what most important? I have to say that this case really illustrates. This tastes of substitutive motives, with a significant emphasis due to gender equality, not to say a lot more weight than the question of the best interests of the child and the family. This is an expression of a guardianship in which the majority in this room believe that one should have an approach to how people should also in the very, very closeest and most durable relationships set up their lives. This promises very bad for family policy in the future. Another theme on which the Right is also concerned is the interests of the self-employed. At this crossroads, we accept the tightening up that it is proposed in the legislation on the feather quota in the case of self-employed workers only in the case of disease. We take note that the work in relation to the situation of the self-employed when you have a newborn is something we come back to. We hope that the consideration we have here will also be taken into account in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e394	Parents have the primary responsibility for the growth of children, and it is important that society makes the best possible provision for them to be able to follow that responsibility in a good way. What it means, varies from family to family. Families are different and have different needs. In order to ensure the best possible growth conditions for children, flexible family policies are important. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 12 will provide families with simpler and more user-friendly legislation for maternity, childbirth and adoption benefits. This is a simplification that has been strongly requested, and I am pleased that the new government chose to join the proposal that was promoted by the Bondevik II government. The Ministry proposes that birth and adoption benefits should be designated as parental pension, not as birth and adoption benefits, which many have been living in today. The focus is on parents regardless of whether they are biological parents or adoptive parents, and that is good. The term «parent» underlines that the performance is intended for both father and mother. The linguistic change makes it clear that father and mother are equivalent caregivers for the child. The proposal would put an end to the time-accounting system in favour of more flexible and simpler rules for the graduated withdrawal of parental leave in combination with partial work. The purpose is to facilitate the collection of parental leave over a longer period of time, in accordance with a written agreement on part-time work. The withdrawal must be completed within three years of birth or taking care. With the new scheme, parents may, for example: choose to work one day a week and in addition receive birth pay. For others, it may be better to work several days a week and thus extend the leave for a longer period. In the new scheme, reduced working hours are agreed with the employer. It allows for individual adaptation, which benefits both the employee and the employer. Norway is at the top of the class in facilitating the conditions for newly-baked mothers. But it must not be a rest cushion. The community has stressed that both parents should be able to work and combine work and family life. The main intention of the proposal is that parents should be able to combine work and care as they wish, in dialogue with the employer. So to the point there's some disagreement about in the committee. The Ministry proposes to grant access to the spring quota during the first six weeks after birth or the adoption of care. The need for care can often be extra high in the first few weeks, and the proposal allows parents to be at home at the same time, with parental leave, during this period. There may be an increased need for care without the need for a medical report. The Christian People's Party believes that it is desirable that as many fathers as possible use this leave alone, but we want it to be a flexibility and an opening so that some families can assess the need for care so that they take leave at the same time in the beginning. Here one has to view this as a flexible family policy, but the Christian People's Party would like to support the intention that father who gets to be alone with children connects important ties with the child to later on. It is not either – or, but it is both a flexibility and an emphasis on the need for a father to have more time with the child when it is newborn. At the same time, it is proposed to limit the scope of the derogation for the parental quota only to cases where father is prevented from taking care of the child because of illness, and this is good. This rule change makes it visible that parents are equally committed whether you are a father or a mother. The Ministry also proposes to grant the right to holiday pay for maternity benefits. Today, maternity benefits do not pay holiday pay, and it is proposed that maternity benefits should be entitled to holiday allowances equivalent to sickness benefits. As today's rules are, the woman comes out less financially if she has maternity pay, than if she has sick pay during pregnancy, as many have been today. The scheme of maternity benefits is important for healthy pregnant women working in an environment that poses a risk to foetal development. For these women, today’s rules mean that they lose the entitlement to holiday pay for a relatively long period. It is not in line with the goal of being able to combine family life and work in a good way. That is why I am pleased that we are today likening maternity benefits to sickness benefits in terms of earning holiday money. I'm addressing the proposal that the Christian People's Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e417	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestion to which she was referring.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e421	The simplification of legislation and the increase in flexibility resulting from today's changes to the laws are mentioned earlier in the debate. On the centre side, we would like to stress that it is important to have a code that is easy to practice and, not least, that appears to be easily accessible to those who are going to use it. Today, we adopt changes that facilitate the situation of women who take out maternity benefits during pregnancy, by also giving entitlement to holiday money. It is important to ensure that women who work in an environment that is at risk of the foetus. The amendment of the law will ensure greater flexibility in relation to the withdrawal of parental leave, and we are pleased about that. The family quota was introduced to ensure that the child was given more time. Father and children would have time together, and Father would have a more active role in caring for the child in the early days. The solution entered by the minority today does not necessarily give the same gain. On the contrary, she can lead to a less active role for father in an important phase of growth than he would have had with the schemes that the majority advocate. The increase in flexibility to which the minority refers could thus weaken the very intention of the scheme. For the centre part, it is also an independent point that the spring quota increases the period of coexistence between parents and children. In any case, the minority solution will not give the same gain. I note that this is not a point on which the representative Thommes places emphasis. I'm also somewhat surprised that the Christian People's Party can stand behind a system that in many cases will lead to children getting a shorter period of their parenthood. One should believe the party had a goal that was the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e432	The proposals for a simpler legislation on pregnancy, childbirth and adoption provide for greater user-friendliness and flexibility for parents and facilitate equality in care responsibilities between father and mother. I am pleased that the Committee has largely joined these proposals and that there is such a great deal of consensus in the Chamber at this point. The change in the terms ‘paternity allowance’ and ‘adoption allowance’ to ‘paternity allowance’ underlines that the benefit is intended to be to the parents, regardless of whether it is adopted parents or biological parents. The change can raise awareness that the benefit is meant for both father and mother, and I hope that this can inspire parents to share the benefit period more equally than they actually do today. Amendment of the laws makes it more difficult to obtain derogations from the parental quota. This is consistent with the purpose of the spring quota and the responsibility of fathers as parents. It's only when dad's too sick to take care of the child that he's going to be able to transfer the father's allowance to his mother. At the same time, there will be more flexible rules for the withdrawal of the spring quota by allowing the spring quota to be included in a graduated withdrawal system in combination with partial work. The majority of the Committee did not agree with the proposal that the quota should be set at the same time as the mother during the first six weeks after birth. I support the majority's view on this. Such a change ensures that we do not weaken the intent of the quota that Father through the Grete Berget called “lovely coercion” would spend more time with the child as an independent caregiver. Father would be allowed to be a father on his own premises. During the first six weeks after birth, mother has an obligation to take out parental leave. In my opinion, a spring quota withdrawal during this period will give father a less independent role than when the spring quota is taken out later. The Time Account Scheme was an important innovation when it was introduced in 1994. However, the use of the Time Account Scheme has not been expected. In 2004 it was only 2.1 pst. by women and 1,1 pst. by the men who used the scheme. I hope and believe that simplifications can better meet the needs of parents. The conversion of the Time Account Scheme provides simpler and more flexible rules for parents wishing to start part-time work before the social benefit period is over. The changes are in accordance with the right to partial leave adopted by new labour law, and payments of parental leave are now to be extended in time when a written agreement has been reached with the employer on part-time work. The changes also facilitate the allocation of a graduated withdrawal between father and mother, and the aim is that simplifications can help more fathers withdraw from this quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e452	I would like to focus on the situation of the self-employed. It is apparent from the proposal that the Ministry is carrying out an investigation in the case of self-employed persons. In this case, the self-employed men may become, but when it comes to the problem, the various rights of self-employed women related to the pregnancy and birth situation may be equally important or more important. I would like to ask the Council of State where the work is. I assume that the element that we have in relation to the self-employed person in this case is also inserted into the matter that comes, so that you get an overall solution that is good. If not, it's actually a tightening up we're about to do today, and it's isolated not a particularly favorable starting point. So where does the matter stand? Is it going to say something about how long it will take, and you want to drag the theme of the day into a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e459	What I can say is that the government is committed to ensuring entrepreneurs and business interests good conditions in order to combine professional careers and child care. We know there's been a lot of commitment in this field -- from all the games in the hall, I think -- over many years. But I also think we should be honest and say that this is not about a major political disagreement, but perhaps more about what we have had the opportunity to enter our budgets. As you can see, Olemic Thommessen's party, Right, has had ample opportunity to sort out these biases in the years that Right has been in the Bondevik II government. I hope there is some understanding that I can't say anything about how the budgetary process is going, but I want to point out what we say in the statement. I also take it very seriously that it is such a collapsing magnification that has said in many contexts that this has to be done. So here there's no political disagreement, but I think we have to be honest and say that it's more about what we can find space for in the annual budgets than about a real disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e464	I would like to ask the Council of State a question. This matter really surprises me a little bit, because I see the Council of State as quite innovative and modern and quite close to a social liberal thinking in family policy. But here I feel that you fall back very much on old-fashioned thinking that the state should decide how the family should feel. You make rules from an ideal family, but we know that families are so incredibly different, we know that the living conditions of people are so different. I have a friend who has been listening to the debate, and from now on I received a message. He is at home with mother and child and experiences the amazing community as it is. So I don't understand how a modern, innovative state council can agree that there should be a moral index finger to determine the ideal family. The fathers who really need this challenge are the ones who don't take out any leave at all, and not the ones who want to do it. A couple relationship can have major challenges related to a child now, and maybe it's right for someone to choose to be together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e471	First, I want to thank you for the compliment from the representative Trine Skei Grande. It was nice. Then I want to say that I actually share a lot of the thoughts and values left in family policy. With regard to this point – and it may be that the representative from the Left is right – we cannot avoid recognising that we need to look at the actual situation after we have had a forced father's quota. We experienced a lot of resistance. We were met with the same kind of argument from the opposition the time we heard now, that this is an old-socialist policy. In the beginning, it was only 4 pst. That took out my dad's quota. Today it is a success. Almost 90 pst. chooses to withdraw the dad quota. I can see that there are many families that have great benefits from being together about it. The intention of a forced father's quota has just been to get the strong interaction between father and child. I believe that has been very successful. We are on the proposal that is on the table today. [[President clubs]] In the end – I'm going to give up, but I just want to say, of course, if families do this in an excellent way, the Labour Party and the other two parties will also review this. There's no problem. But there I think we're actually not yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e484	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e489	I was challenged by the representative Olemic Thommess – a violent commitment: I had talked about the «best of the child», and I was assigned part of Gunn Karin Gjul's recording. I have not talked about the best of the child in this debate. I did that in the previous debate. What I've said is that when we got a father's quota, the joke was with a father's quota that Dad was going to take it out alone. That was the background for the feather quota. Now that we're expanding our father's quota, it's for the family's total leave to be extended. That's what I said. It is not desirable to shorten the period of leave. When you see your child’s needs, it’s like having children’s kindergartens around the age of one. In fact, the expansion we are now making of the family quota means that the family can share the leave and be at home with the child can have a care situation in kindergarten. So Dad has the right to leave the first 14 days after birth. Some employers do not pay leave for 14 days after birth. That's what we think is quite objectionable. We want to pressure employers to take on the responsibilities of employers in relation to fathers' right to leave after birth. If you grant Dad's quota for the first six weeks, Dad will lose 14 days. So with the expansion that the previous government did, and the expansion that we've said we're going to promote later, the 14 days that we've now given extra to Dad will be eaten up. It is clear that this is a policy on gender equality. It's been the whole time. We've always said a lot about that, both in position and in opposition. But this is, of course, an equal opportunities policy measure for father's rights. I am quite impressed with the fathers today who are largely using the quota, and who are also largely sharing the rest of the parental pen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e500	The Christian People's Party has been a proponent of increasing the father's quota. The Christian People's Party has programmed increased paper issue. There has been an important family policy action, not only for reasons of equality but above all for the sake of the child, for the purpose of the relationship between father and child and for the sake of future care and good and close contact between father and child. The Christian People's Party is in no doubt that it is important for Dad to spend a lot of time with his child in relation to his father's quota and all the way in the first few months and be allowed to take responsibility alone. The main purpose of this is to strengthen the child’s bond for the entire growth. The Christian People's Party agrees that for the vast majority of fathers and families, the father's allowance should extend the leave, not shorten it. But sometimes, in some families, there may be a need to reinforce the fact that both parents are at home. Families are different, and there may be some who make the choice to reinforce and take time at the expense of extension. I believe that most of the families with young children think it's good with long leave and want to take it out as intended with the father's quota. The birth rate is primarily for the child, secondary to the family, and the families are different. I'm pleased to see the extension of the father's quota. I believe – and that’s the most important thing about the father’s quota – that it provides a basis for fathers to choose to be home when the child is a baby and needs fathers to be at home with them, and for father to be more with the child in the rest of their childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e509	It was the intervention of the representative Olemic Thommessen that made it necessary for me to take the floor again. I note that there is a significant difference of opinion between the former government partners Right and Christian People's Party on the issue of father's quota and emphasis on whether it is at all important that father is at home alone with his young child or not. If I have understood Thommes' representative correctly, he doesn't actually think it's so terribly important that Dad is at home alone with the child, that it doesn't matter that Dad takes out a larger part of the leave. Then I just have to admit that I think the representative Thommess has not understood the point. He has not understood how modern men think. Modern fathers, today's young fathers of 30 years, want to take a greater share of care for their children. They want to be more at home with their children. In fact, they want their mother to be gone when they are at home and take responsibility for their children. Because that's actually how we mothers are, as long as we're home, we take over control and don't let dad go to more than he needs. That's the way it is today. It is only when Father is allowed to drive alone at home, that he really gets to eat with the little one and be cared for – and take care of him alone – for the child. So the representative Thommessen asks whether there is a conflict between equality and children's needs. In this case I believe that it goes hand in hand. Because there is one thing that is certain of our experience – we who grew up 30-40 years ago – is that absent fathers are poor equality policies, and that is bad for the child. I hope someday the father quota can be superfluous. For the goal must be that we do not have to have a spring quota. The goal must be that mother and father share so much of the leave between themselves that it becomes more equal, so that the spring quota is actually not necessary in length.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e519	I think that's the representative, Gjul, who didn't quite get the point. It is not that the Right feels that it is not important for a father to be alone with the child. It's probably positive that Dad is alone with the baby – that's good. But it's actually not so important that we decide. When the representative Gjul says that modern fathers want yours or daughter, and wants to be alone with the child, she takes her mouth too full, for she cannot speak on behalf of all modern fathers. But she does so in confidence that the socialist parties, in line with the way you think about it, set up a template for what's best, and then everyone should be so good at what's right in their heads. Fortunately, that's not the right starting point. The right point is that the best solution is where you decide, that those who are in the situation have an opportunity to decide for yourself. To the representative of May Hansen, I would like to say that when I was so easy to tell her to talk about the «best of the child», it is a bit linked to the comments. There is the «child’s need» that has been addressed. Now I understand that the disagreement between the government parties in this case is quite great. We're used to the last period that in the Right, as a government party, we often had to find ourselves in answering for what the Christian People's Party and the Left meant. I understand that's not the case with the constellation of the day, and we're told that we have to argue in free play with each of the three parties. Otherwise I find it striking to notice that the representative Hansen is quite clear that it is not the best thing for the child to talk about, this is an equality matter. She clearly said that. The main aim is to strengthen equality through this instrument and to press employers. Equality is important, and it may be timely to press employers, but for the Right, it is now the best thing for the child to do that is the overall consideration that should be at the heart of all aspects – and I mean in every context – where the child is involved. And the closest we can come to know what's best for the child in this context is what's best for the family. It is the family that is the framework of the child’s life, and this must take precedence over the need to push employers or promote gender equality on a more fundamental basis – and on behalf of many people who are not allowed to express how they themselves achieve equality. It's an outdated view of men from whom I take a great distance, and it's striking that it just comes from these teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e536	The representative of May Hansen gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e539	There should be no doubt in this room that the child's needs and best interests are the background for us in the Socialist Left Party to believe that children should be allowed to be with their fathers. The attack on me was that I had used the «best of the child» in the cabin and torment in my post. I did not use that expression at all, I said that according to the child's needs, we believe that this is important. If the representative Olemic Thommes had been concerned with fathers, fathers' rights, children's needs and children's best, he would have helped push employers to pay fathers the first 14 days after birth. He hasn't been into that. I have great respect for modern men, and the modern man tells me, is that they want to take greater responsibility for their children and have their own rights in relation to postnatal leave. And that's what this is all about. We're also saying that we're limiting the possibility of transferring parental allowances to mother. Why would the Right agree to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e546	Olemic Thommessen gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e549	I take note of May Hansen's corrections. It is true, as she says, that the comments say ‘the child’s needs’ and not ‘the child’s best’. That's how I like to eat it in my mouth. But when it comes to the issue of respect for today's men, I notice that the way SV – because you have to take one party now below – wants to express respect for today's men is to say that they are not mature and do not have the ability to decide for themselves when to withdraw the quota. It's hard to understand that there's a good way to express respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e556	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e572	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e579	This case is a case that is over from the Bondevik II administration, but there is a broad consensus about it, which I as the case-rapporteur am very pleased about. It is an important matter, whether or not it may seem insignificant within the regulatory framework. The funny thing is that there's a little bit different reason why it's important, from the different parties. The main emphasis of most people is probably in both a school policy justification and a social policy justification. The main reason for social policy is to have a fair, consistent system for all. School policy is behind the Stortinget as a whole, so all the parties want the training obligation to be met, so that we ensure that all children get a good schooling. The disagreement relating to the argument is whether this is an instrument of coercion. The hearing bodies have different approaches to it. I just want to drag the lines back to the first post I made today, about the instruments related to forced marriage, where I said that the best way to combat forced marriage is safe young people who are ready for their choices. Safe young people who are clear and safe in their choices are often also young people who have received a school, a training, an education that enables them to make the choices properly. So you could say that this is an indirect effect, related to coercion. There is a certain discussion in the case, and the hearing bodies were also engaged in the reporting obligation that we here impose on the school. I have a personal commitment to this, so I'd like to spend some time on it. Today, there are very few systems that actually register children. Today it is such that children can so say disappear from the surface of the earth without any public authorities noticing it. Some schools, e.g. in Oslo, the inner east, which has had a large proportion of minority-speaking students, i.e. a large proportion of students who have attended school in different countries, to put it simply, have developed very good practice on this. They have developed good systems, which also mark the disappearance of young people and good warning procedures, as the Committee has also noted in its comments. This is something you should take further and see if it can also be transferred to other municipalities. The reporting obligation may be exercised in many different ways. Some are afraid that this can be shaken by the trust between school and student. It depends entirely on how the reporting obligation is exercised. For me, who has traveled a lot around the school world in this city, it is clear that, for example. A school like Tøjen, which follows its students quite accurately, follows up so closely that it happens that the teacher also knocks on the door of the family and asks: Does the child now go to school somewhere else, or is the child at home? That means they use the entire spectrum they have on a legal basis, which is all the way to the door. It's perfectly okay for a teacher to knock on a door, he can't demand to come in, but he has absolutely legitimate permission to knock on the door and ask where the child is. And such an exercise as is seen to have been built up in the inner eastern schools of Oslo is the exercise of the reporting obligation and control that I believe expresses a proper attitude towards actually managing children's rights, and that you actually have the opportunity to discover it the day the children disappear. Now it is not that the Committee is in any way critical of children staying abroad in parts of their growth. Multilingual competence and multicultural competence is a competence that we need to maintain; it is important in future societies. I believe that the vast majority of children who grow up in future Norway will deal with multilingualism and multicultural backgrounds in different ways. That's why it's just a force. Therefore, it is also important in this case to follow and look at the effects of this tightening on this whole field, where it is both about the opportunities of ethnic Norwegian children to be abroad for a few years and the opportunities for children who have a different cultural background to be abroad for a few years. I recommend the setting, which is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e605	The current attitude involves the introduction of reporting obligations for schools in relation to the absence of pupils from primary school education and a tightening of current rules on the payment of child benefit if the child is living abroad for more than half a year, against today, when the payment stops after one year. The Labour Party welcomes these changes on the basis of school policy and social policy considerations. For the Workers' Party, school policy has been a cornerstone in the development of the welfare state. Through a general and democratically organized school, we have wanted to ensure equal opportunities for developing skills and facilities. Over all years, we have seen it as a value in itself to develop the Community School in which the sons and daughters of the director and the industrial worker are to meet and integrate socially and thus be equipped to meet society in an equivalent way. In this way, our school system has helped to give children from different social groups the same opportunities to be equipped to participate in society in different contexts. Under the training obligation, children growing up in Norway shall be guaranteed the right to training that provides them with the requisite ballast for equivalent participation in the Norwegian community. The Labour Party is concerned that schools report children who are absent from school for longer stays abroad. The Workers' Party is concerned not only about a school point of view, where important and necessary education is lost, but perhaps most of all because children are deprived of fundamental rights, rights which are just about to give them the start that is essential to further developing skills and facilities and thus to be able to participate fully in society. The purpose of family allowances is to contribute to the cost of child care, and the level and extent have been assessed on the basis of the cost of growing up in Norway and the contribution of the community to this end. If children are outside the country’s borders, it is not unreasonable for the Workers’ Party to lose child welfare after six months. It is from such reasoning — school policy and social policy — that we support the proposal to introduce a reporting obligation for schools in case of suspicion of school absence in case of long-term stay abroad. We do not consider it reasonable to impose a reporting obligation on high school since the obligation to train is limited to primary school. I also find it necessary to link a few comments to some of the reasons for the changes proposed by the Bondevik government through Ot.prp. No 13th@item: We share the school policy and social policy reasons that are being done here, but we do not find that we can join in the reason that these are measures to prevent forced marriage. In this way, we share the scepticism of many of the hearing bodies, and several of their opinions that one has to approach this problem in a different way. And in this way, we refer to the important work that the Council of State is doing to get a real picture of the extent of coercion and, in this context, to provide targeted measures that should be more accurate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e622	The progress party joins the main features of Ot.prp. No 13 on the law on amendments to the Child Welfare Act, etc. As demonstrated by the debate in Stortinget earlier today, the Progress Party is very committed to preventing coercion. Document No The 8th proposal from the Progress Party, which was before us today, is just one of many proposals that we have put forward in this area. Of course, it is nice that Norwegian young people get into the world and take education. This strengthens our competitiveness in the globalised economy. However, this applies in the first series of Norwegian youth who have completed high school, young adults such as young people. undertakes economic training in the United States, marketing training in Australia or medical studies in Germany. This is positive for Norway as a nation. However, it is not positive to send small children to fundamentalist Muslim schools in the home country of immigrant parents. This is negative for three reasons: 1st@item: inlistbox It continues the anti-Western, undemocratic and anti-woman attitudes of fundamentalist Islam.2. It is the exposure to pregnancy.3. It gives poorer understanding of Norwegian language and society. The Progress Party believes it is obvious that participation in education in Norway is important for minority-speaking children and the integration of young people into Norwegian society. When you are required to report schools to the social security office in case of absences that may be due to stay abroad, we believe that this may help us to stop some of the negative developments in the sending of children more or less forced out of the country. But we're convinced that this must apply to all schools where the students are under 18, not just the primary school, as the majority have suggested. Some of the groups such as: Most vulnerable to forced marriages are those 16 and 17 years of age, when pressure is increasing. We are deeply disappointed that the majority is failing these young people, where perhaps clear and clear decisions and concrete action are most important. However, this reflects how problems related to the immigrant group are handled in Norway: there is talk, it is seen, it is investigated, it is researched, and it is monitored, but little or nothing is done. One is terrified of trotting Muslim environments on toes, and then often the things you put up to become a blow in the air. We have noticed in the hearings that some of the hearing bodies are concerned about the relationship of trust between home and school. Confidence is clearly an important factor between school and home, but the safety and safety of children are more important for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e651	Many good principles have been discussed in this matter. I think this room might also have to ask: how are we dealing with instrumental legislation? So we're talking about a social security rule, a social security rule that obviously has to apply to all Norwegian citizens, whether they're blonde and blue-eyed or brown-eyed and dark. We're talking about a rule that's well-founded as a social security rule. There is no need for any other motivation, either for school policy, for immigration policy or for coercion, to adopt this provision. It's good on its own. I feel that it's a little important to mention it, because many of the posts have been about completely different things, excellent and important things, and I'll also talk a little bit about them. But it's not that we can start to imagine that we're bringing together social security legislation because it's going to serve all sorts of purposes other than social security policy. The order of things must be in order, if we are not on dangerous roads, on very wild roads, in the thinking around legislation. Right and I also think that the legal certainty of this is important. It is linked to the fact that the legal certainty of children as such is an important topic, and we have few links in our law and in our practical arrangement of society that, I say, automatically alerts children's difficulties. We have systems in schools, of course, where concerns are to be reported – there is something. But I think it's important to see the context, see if you shouldn't go inside and strengthen children's legal certainty, see how this can be done better. I think the Oslo Schools approach to this, where absenteeism from school makes you not only report to social security, but also to the police and, I think, to child protection, is a good routine. It doesn't suspect anyone, but it does make the children who need it actually see, and it's very, very important. Unfortunately, we know many examples of Norwegian children moving abroad. This does not apply only to immigrant children. We know from the previous period of ageing debates around Norwegian children in Spain, children who lived under very difficult circumstances, where there was a connection between the auxiliaries in Spain, Norwegian auxiliaries with Spain and the opportunities of the school authorities to deal with the different types of schools down there in relation to school here, certainly a conspiracy of difficulties, which I am not so sure if we got to the bottom of. It is just as important to me as the more immigration policy issues that have been used to justify what we are now talking about. I also agree that going to school in Norway is an important integration area, and we will work to strengthen it. In this sense, there is a positive effect of this provision: it's obvious that when you take away your social security, your children reappear. I think you have experience in school. But that is not the real reason why this rule was adopted, and it says this – the representative Knudsen was involved in it himself – a little in connection with that document. The 8-proposal that was discussed in the Stortinget earlier today, which would therefore use marriage law as an instrument in relation to coercion as a topic. It's not an easy question to deal with, in principle, across the board, but I think it's important here, in order to say it a little popular, to separate the snares and the bars when you're working on legislation, so that you always know what's the main point and the basis of the rules you're agreeing to. Right supports setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e664	The President accepts popular expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e667	The changes in the Child Welfare Act now make it possible for schools to have a reporting obligation to the social security office when children and young people have a long absence in addition to normal holidays due to stays abroad. The home of such a obligation to notify is included in the Law on Social Security. It is for practical reasons that the basis for reporting obligations is added to the People's Security Act. This means that messages given to the organs of the social security system will be for general use and not limited only to child care. The social security system will also be able to use messages for control in relation to benefits under the Social Security Act. Children’s benefit recipients under the applicable law are obliged to report abroad in addition to regular vacation stays, but the social security scheme does not always comply with this obligation to notify, and as a result, payment of child benefits may be made in error. Today’s legislation does not provide an opportunity to impose a mandatory obligation on schools if children and young people stay away from school for a longer period of time. This is why it is important to bring about legislative changes and take action that can help with the provision of training, which is very important for the integration of minority-speaking children into Norwegian society. It should be up to the schools and schools in each municipality to find out how the reporting obligation can best be met and organised. It is important to provide effective procedures for prompt notification to the social security system of absence, so that the establishment can assess the right to family and other social security benefits and whether they have been properly paid. It is important to develop procedures to prevent mispayments. It is important to point out that the change is made mainly on the basis of school policy and social policy grounds. The training obligation must be followed up by the school authorities. The reporting obligation does not apply to secondary schools, since they are not covered by the training obligation. However, children have disappeared from schools without the authorities knowing where they are, and this is also happening in high school. Oslo Municipality has developed procedures to register this. It is positive that there is an overall committee behind the comment to ask the Government to consider appropriate measures against this group. As the Socialist Left Party sees it, we share the doubts of the hearing bodies that there are some appropriate measures to combat coercion. The Socialist Left believes that other instruments and crisis measures need to be taken to address this problem. This government will come back specifically through a new foreign law during 2006. Finally, it is important for the Socialist Left to point out that being able to attend school abroad can enrich children and young people and provide cultural and linguistic benefits and understanding for their cultural and ethnic backgrounds. We live in a globalized world where knowledge of language will be an important factor in being able to cope. It is important that the Ministry carry out an evaluation to identify any unintended negative consequences of this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e682	All children living in Norway are obliged to attend primary school. Such training shall provide all children with a common knowledge, culture and value base. Students shall be provided with equivalent and adapted training for the purpose of good public knowledge. I think it's great that in Norway it's not just a right to school, but it's a duty, because it's so crucial for every child. Today, when we decide to tighten up the right to child protection while living abroad and introduce reporting obligations for schools, the main aim is both to strengthen the integration of minority-speaking children into Norwegian society and to introduce measures against the payment of child protection errors. It is a goal that descendants of immigrants, to the same extent as children of parents born and raised in Norway, will receive education and work to enable them to take an active part in Norwegian society. Long stays abroad may make this difficult and, in some cases, may lead to forced marriages. Discontinuation of child protection and compulsory school reporting can help prevent such situations from occurring. The social security system depends on good tools to avoid the payment of social security benefits. When the school is now required to report, several of the fault payments can be avoided. Preventing the payment of errors is important not only to avoid the loss suffered by the country. It is also important for the beneficiary. If a person has received large amounts unduly, a recovery claim may be a heavy financial burden. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that there is a danger that the trust between home and school may be impaired when the school is required to report if students have absences due to stay abroad. At the same time, we know that both Oslo and Drammen have had procedures for reporting illegal absences to other bodies for several years. I know from my own work for many years in school that having good routines to follow the individual child's absence is a part of and contributes greatly to the performance of this right or duty of the individual student. When this fails around the individual student, the school shall ensure that the child is trained as required. We also recognise that tightening the rules of the Children’s Rights Act on living abroad could have negative consequences, for example, for parents of exchange students, some foreign students with children and families who have a longer vacation stay abroad. The Christian People's Party has assessed the different aspects of each other and has concluded that the positive consequences of the proposal must be weightier. At the same time, it is important to stress that all parties, apart from the Progress Party, agree that going to school abroad can enrich children and young people and bring cultural and linguistic benefits and understanding to their cultural and ethnic backgrounds. So we ask the department to evaluate how the contractions work in relation to it when they've been working for a while. The Progress Party does not agree with this. In their reply, they say, among other things. the following: ‘These members are therefore totally opposed to children being sent alone to other continents, even if this is done in the name of globalisation.’ [[...]] One is tempted to ask: is this also true for school exchanges with the United States or Australia? In this debate, it is important to be nuanced. If we dare to be impressed by other cultures and religions, even experience ourselves to be a minority in another country for a period of time, I think we're contributing to increased understanding. The same is true of interreligious dialogue. We have recently seen good examples of its importance in Norway in the context of the Muhammed caricature conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e709	Odelstingen today has proposals to introduce the obligation to notify schools to the social security office when students have absences which may be due to stay abroad, and proposals to tighten the child benefit law with regard to the right to family benefits while living abroad. One of the reasons for the proposal has been that this can help prevent forced marriage. I am, like the majority of the Committee, uncertain as to how rigorously this action will be in relation to preventing coercion, but I am pleased that the Committee stresses the importance of following up work in this area. In this way, the Ministry’s work on identifying the extent of forced marriage is important. I would like to begin by stressing that it may be positive for children to go to school abroad, as the representative May Hansen was also involved in his post. At the same time, it may be unfortunate, from an inclusion perspective, that a child to live his or her adult life in Norway spends much of his or her childhood in another country. This may apply to people who have their ethnic origins in other countries, as well as ethnic Norwegian children of the Roma people. Children who have had long stays abroad may have forgotten their Norwegian skills and lost contact with friends and the Norwegian community in general. I believe that the changes adopted by the Odelstinget today can contribute to the reduction of foreign residence for some children and young people and thus facilitate their integration into Norwegian society. The proposal on compulsory school reporting also has a different justification. The parents' obligation to report to the social security office about their children's stay abroad is not always met. This means that child-responsiveness can be wrongly paid. When the social security code is notified to the school that the absence of a child may be due to the fact that the child is abroad, the social security code may examine whether the right to family benefits is retained and, where appropriate, stop the payment. This may prevent the payment of errors. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee does not want high school to be subject to the notification requirement. However, I note the Committee's disclosure of information that some children are missing without the authorities knowing where they are and that this is also happening in high school. I would like to say to the representative of Skei Grande, who was inside his post, that this concerns me too. That children in our society disappear without us knowing where they are is serious. I don't know exactly what we have in answer to this, but what I can promise at least is to put in place a job to see if there is anything we can do about different types of action in this field. I have also noted the Committee's opinion that it is important that good and effective procedures are not taken into account, so that schools are not imposed unnecessarily much administration. I am here pointing out that the odelstingsproposition states that the school budget and the school in each municipality will find out how the reporting obligation can best be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e731	No one has drawn a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e736	It was the representative Knudsen who made me take the floor again. He made statements that we are failing these children, and that we are afraid to drag the Pakistani population on the toes by saying that high school is part of the training obligation under Norwegian law. It must be capable of being described as a lack of knowledge. There are very few young people who are sent to Pakistan to go to high school. That part is pretty microscopic. What's the challenge is something completely different. I think the Thommess had some good principal balances. We must make our laws on the basis of universal principles, and it is clear that the general thing here must be that society's rights and the obligations of society are interrelated. I believe that there is a clear link between child welfare and the obligation to provide training, but that link is lifted in high school. It is not possible to show here that the effect the party wants to achieve can lead to something like that. It is important to note that there may also be other things that can lead to parents not wanting to have their children in Norwegian school anymore, and that go far into school policy, among other things. that the government has now removed the second foreign language, which would have given parents the opportunity to have the mother tongue as a foreign language for the children. Now parents send their children to their country of origin to learn the language that they could have learned in Norwegian school with equal happiness. As the City Council for School in Oslo, I took the initiative to gather police, child protection, social security and schools around the same table to make similar routines. When it disappears approx. A hundred children from Norwegian school are not just children of ethnicity other than Norwegian. Ethnic Norwegian children are also disappearing, and children are linked to ethnic minorities, such as ethnic minorities. the Gypsy population. It's a much wider and harder field than what this is. I would like to encourage the Council of State to ensure that other municipalities, too, make it possible to bring together all the important agencies to ensure the legal certainty of children. I think it's scary that we live in a country where children can just disappear, no matter what ethnic background they have, without anyone being able to explain where they are. If we're going to do that, some creativity is needed to see different relationships between all the different state institutions we have in order to ensure the legal certainty of children. But then they have to be able to sit around the same table and cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e747	When you have any possible action you can take that which is obviously very negative, i.e. forced marriage, and you don't choose to put them in, it's quite obvious that it's a failure of a group. As also emerged from the debate in Stortinget earlier today, it is part of those who are being coerced, among others. in Pakistan, who are under 18 years of age and are young people per year. are in high school today, including: in Oslo and in my home town Drammen, which is no. 2 for immigration statistics. Another little clarification: when I talked about being terrified of troubling some people on the toes, I didn't say that it was about the Pakistani environments, but the Muslim environments. In fact, there are more Muslim environments in Norway than exactly Pakistani. But this can of course be about Pakistani as the largest Muslim environment in Oslo, as far as I am aware. I feel that this debate and the debate we had earlier today are a bit symptomatic of a misunderstood genius and dialogue that characterize some Norwegian social summits. In relation to fundamentalist Islam, which is ideologically close to communism, fascism and Nazism, and which preach violence, oppression and impotence, I do not think dialogue is possible. There it has to confront. And as I was in the Question Time yesterday, in an exchange of words with the Minister of Culture, has, among other things, the well-known author Salman Rushdie ordered the West to take a settlement with fundamentalist Islam. Other, more moderate parts of the Muslim communities are possible to have a dialogue with. Otherwise, the president said there was no line change because no one had drawn. We were informed by the secretary that it was not possible to draw a line. But if there had been a line change, I think I might have asked the council a question. We record that the state councils in the media are very actively pointing out the difficult situation of women in the immigrant communities. Among other things, she said: last November that imams must refrain from violence against women and not make statements that can legitimize this and that they would use State aid as a means of pressurising against these groups. I could imagine asking the Council of State what she has done specifically to strengthen the position of women in the immigrant communities – and then I don't think about research, investigation and screening, but about concrete actions. In that area, I feel that it is very thin.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e760	While the president was out, it was informed that there was no reason to change lines, nor is it. So the president takes what he said on his coat. Otherwise, the President will note that the characteristics used in relation to Muslim environments, such as fascism and Nazism, can be seen as strong characteristics, and the President warns against such strong characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e765	The previous article on Knudsen made me take the floor, but this should really lead to everyone in the room taking the floor, because what the Knudsen now said about dialogue between different cultures and religions was quite shocking. I have gone through life and always believed the best of all, and it has saved me too much trouble. I also choose to believe the best about Mr. Bullshit. I would therefore ask Knudsen to say what he means by confrontation. What does the representative Knudsen actually say about Muslim countries meeting with ‘confrontation’? What does he put in that word? It would have been very enlightening for us to know. It is clear that the Progress Party has never been close to having power. They have a fascinating belief in this hall's ability to regulate themselves out of any problem, to regulate themselves out of any moral dilemma and to regulate themselves out of any cultural conflict. It's actually not that we can regulate ourselves out of it. Sometimes it's about political creativity. Sometimes it's about getting agencies to sit down together, do a political craft and make cooperation routines. We can adopt rules here until we get blue, green or red, but it's actually not going to help us out of the big challenges we have here. Here are the good, hard-working bureaucrats who can do the job on behalf of the Norwegian community. Here it is actually the teacher at Tøen School, who goes from family to family and knocks on the doors, who can change attitudes, and who can improve integration. The Knudsen will never be able to legislate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e774	Ulf Erik Knudsen gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e777	Whether the Progress Party has been far from power, you can see by looking at the last period of government, where we actually made three budgets together with, among other things. Left. So far away from power, the Progress Party has not been. In terms of ways of confronting fundamentalist Islam, it can be done through clear and concrete legal regulations, by withdrawing money from religious communities preaching attitudes that we do not want to have in Norway, such as terror and violence, or by stopping the transfer of funds to the terrorist organisation Hamas, etc., by being clear and clear to fundamentalist Islam that we do not want these attitudes in a civilised Western world. But as I also said, there are moderate Muslim environments with which it is possible to have dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e784	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e792	We're going to vote on case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e800	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposals No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e843	The President will first address proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal concerns the new second paragraph of § 6 of Kinderelova and reads: ‘Section 6 new second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:If the person entitled to bring an action before the courts following this paragraph is dead, the heirs shall enter into the legal claim of the deceased person after that person.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e861	The President will then bring up proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal concerns the second paragraph of Article 28a and reads as follows: ‘Section 28a, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:If the person entitled to bring an action before the courts following this paragraph is dead, the heirs shall enter into the legal claim of the deceased person after that person.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1014	This will be replaced by the alternative between the setting and proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 80, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:If a person who has paid or agreed to a child’s birth grant, later released from the father’s custody, he or she may claim the sum of the amount paid back from his or her nationality. The sum shall be indexed according to the consumer price index of the Statistical Central Bureau from the date of payment of the advance until payment is made again. The person who has been paid in advance is paid the index adjustment after payment. The requirement may be set down or dropped if it is clear that he did not have reasonable reason to agree to the danger, or that he should have raised a case for change earlier.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1048	The President will now deal with proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1098	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1108	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1116	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1409	The President will draw attention to the fact that this has been corrected in relation to the vote. The setting refers to the second paragraph of Section 14-9. The correct reference shall be to the fourth paragraph of Section 14-9. For this sentence there is an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 14-10 is amended as follows:However, this does not apply to the extension in case of multiple births, see the fourth paragraph of Section 14-9 or to the withdrawal of a family allowance, see the second paragraph of Section 14-12.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1516	The President will address here the voting proposal, No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 14 to 12 shall be replaced by the following:The father may also withdraw the parental allowance for the first 30 days of the social security period after birth or the care allowance at the same time as the mother receives the parental pension.’; [[6 weeks]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1858	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1868	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1946	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e1956	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09-lower.ana.ud367e2008	Thus, today's map has been processed.
