ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e41	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of Odelstingen's meetings today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e51	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President proposed that cases should be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e76	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e83	We are going to deal with two issues in this debate. It's Ot.prp. No 88 for 2005-2006, which concerns the implementation of Directive 2001/84/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right of the author of an original works of art, and Ot.prp. No 101 for 2005-2006 on amendments to the Law on the Law on the Sale of Visual Arts, the Law on Art Fees. In the submission, the Ministry refers to the tax on the placing on the market of visual art as a system that has existed for more than 50 years and which has well established procedures and rules for the collection and distribution of money. However, questions have been raised on several occasions about whether the fee should be extended to cover several art species. The rules on supplementary benefits to be introduced into Norwegian law have given new impetus to this discussion. The Ministry considers that there has been an additional need to harmonise the two arrangements, in order to simplify the administration. According to the Ministry, harmonisation will also make it easier for users, both in terms of artists themselves, and in terms of those who are to purchase their works. It is therefore proposed to make some amendments to the Arts Tax Act in order to bring it into line with the rules on supplementary rights proposed in the copyright law. This means extending the tax base to several types of works of art, in particular crafts and photographic works. In addition, an increase in the charge itself is brought to the level of the general rate of the supplemental allowance. The majority, i.e. all lots, except the Party of Advancement, have acceded to this part of the legislative proposal. But an overall committee asks the Government to follow closely the development of artistic turnover after the changes in the rules. I would like to point out here that there is a concern expressed by art dealers that the rules could lead to a move to the rest of the world. With regard to the special position of the Progress Party, I would like to point out that we do not see the logic that the art fee should be increased as a result of the introduction of the right to follow-up, and that this should be so much easier to manage and deal with for all parties when the rates or fees are set at the same percentage. In a number of sectors, among others: in the retail trade, it has been relatively straightforward to deal with different rates of VAT. It is also well known that the Progress Party believes that the level of taxation in Norway should be reduced, not increased. The right of follow-up shall be added to the arrangements resulting from the 1948 Art Tax Act. This law introduced a fee of up to 3 pst. in the case of the public placing on the market of visual arts in Norway. The fee goes to a special auxiliary fund, the Visual Artists' Help Fund, which manages the scheme. The fee comes as a supplement to the price of the work. According to Ot.prp. No 88 the art fee is a special scheme that does not have its own in the other Nordic countries. For many years, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland have had different forms of right to follow. The amendments proposed in Ot.prp. No 88, concerning the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right of follow-up for the benefit of the author of an original work of art, which I mentioned earlier. A new provision of the copyright law provides for the right of the author of a copyrighted works of art to be resold for professional resale of the original of the work. The Ministry’s proposal provides that the bill on the placing on the market of visual art should be maintained, but that no charge should be paid for sales covered by the accompanying legal system. The accompanying legal regime is proposed to apply only where the selling price excluding VAT exceeds EUR 3000. According to the Directive, the rate may be set at 4 or 5 pst. for that part of the selling price not exceeding EUR 50000. The proposal proposes 5 pst. Furthermore, the rates are laid down in the Directive. In line with the Directive, the total remuneration for resale will not exceed EUR 12500. The Progress Party supports the implementation of the system of supplementary rights in Norwegian legislation. However, we are sceptical that the Ministry's proposal has been based on the highest tax rate, and we are proposing 4 pst. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to the remarks in the motions for resolutions, and I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e113	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 236 and 237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e131	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President proposes that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e138	The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture hereby submits its position to Ot.prp. No 5 for 2006-2007 on the Law amending the Law on Social Security. I'm going to be very brief, because this matter is mainly about legislating today's practice on the right to parental leave in early stebarn adoption. We have had a very rapid procedure in the committee, and all the members of the committee support the vote, except for the Progress Party, which is opposed. The Christian People's Party has an additional remark. I believe that the respective parties themselves will set out their vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e149	This matter is, of course, undramatically heard – a bill on the right to parental leave in the event of an early adoption of a step-child. But what's it really about? Well, that gay people should have full rights to adoption of stepchildren. The representatives of the Progress Party voted against the Partnership Act in due course. The Progress Party has programmed that you are not a fan of having homofiles adopted. Of course, we accept that homosexuals want to live in obsessive couples, and that homosexuals also have children. We believe, however, that in the same way that there can be no human right to have children, it is not a human right to adopt children. The party of progress will highlight the heterophoric marriage as the most stable and secure framework for a family relationship. We're of the opinion that children have the best upbringing by having parents of different sexes, and we don't want to let homosexuals adopt. On the above basis, we do not want equality between heterophilic marriage and partnership with the subsequent right of homosexuals to adopt. So we're going to go against the proposition. When this is said, we have to say that we find it alarming that the Christian People's Party, which has previously shared the views of the Progress Party in these matters, is now flat on the policies of the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e160	I initially want to clarify that this matter is not about adoption or not about homofiles. The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen is probably quite aware of the Christian People's Party's view on that matter when it comes to homosexuals. The amendment we are adopting today will give children better overall parental contact. This is what children need, and it is important for both parents who have parental responsibility. Parents and children lay the basis for a good relationship already in the first year of life. Research shows that parents who have a longer period of time with their child during their first year of life will give the child more priority over the entire infant period. Therefore, it is important that society facilitates increasing the time of both parents with the children. It's a good investment in the future. In the family announcement, the government outlined Bondevik II proposals for changes to the maternity allowance scheme, focusing on parents as equivalent caregivers, freedom of choice for the family and a simpler regulation. It is important to have an equal birth grant scheme, so that each parent is entitled to a birth grant on the basis of his own earnings. It is also important to continue the extension of the spring quota by extending the overall period of leave. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government does not take new steps to strengthen the fathers and – after today's amendment – the partners' rights to time with the children from the beginning. I am surprised at the attitude of the Progress Party in this matter. It is stated in the note to the Progress Party that adoption is ‘no human right’, but the Progress Party ‘accepts, of course, that homosexuals want to live in obliging couples and that homosexuals also have children’. At the same time, children who actually live with parents in gay partnerships should not have the same rights as other children. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that all children have good contact with both parents who have parental responsibility, regardless of whether they are biological or not. When a child lives with parents who have entered into a partnership and both have parental responsibility, the child’s rights of good contact with both must be guaranteed. It is the children's right to good and early contact with both parents that is central to the proposition we are dealing with today, not the issue of general adoption rights for homosexuals. In cases where sterilisation takes place where the parental leave period continues to run, the care situation and the need for both parents to be able to take part of the benefit period will be the same as when both parents are biological parents. We may have different views on the issue of adoption, but I don't think anyone who adopts will think it's a human right to have children. Neither do those who give birth to the children themselves. The key, however, is that children must be cared for, regardless of the sexual orientation of their parents and the choice of form of life. Marriage represents a commitment that other forms of life lack, and experience and research show that marriage provides the best and most stable framework for child growth. A modern family policy, however, must take into account that families are different, with different needs, and want the freedom to create their own daily lives. Then our role as politicians is to guarantee children's rights, regardless of the choice of adults. That should also be the concern of the Progress Party, if they have the ambition to be a broad popular party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e177	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 239]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e185	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e192	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e280	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 4 November 1948 No 1 on the tax on the placing on the market of visual art shall be repealed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e351	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e362	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e370	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e547	For the purposes of point (a) of the third paragraph of Section 38c, an alternative proposal from the Progress Party is available. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of point (a) of Section 38c of the Law on Public Works is replaced by the following:4 pst. of the part of the selling price not exceeding EUR 50000.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e570	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e580	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e727	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e739	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e749	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e894	The President proposes that the processing of this record be suspended until the selection appointed by the Government to investigate the criminal cases against Fritz Moen has been investigated. Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e899	I agree with the vote, but I would like to add a few comments to the matter. The enquiry, or review, from Tore Sandberg is dated 18 September 2006. The reason why it was not referred to earlier in Odelstinget is that at that time the Minister of Justice started investigating the murder of Fritz Moen, who was 18 years old for something he had not done. There was also an assessment by the Minister of Justice of whether he should extend the term of office of the Committee of Inquiry to include the proceedings of the Court of Justice on the Fritz Moen cases. Therefore, it was expected that it was decided what the Minister of Justice would do. It belonged directly to each other, because these are the Supreme Court judges who have been reported in some way. The Minister of Justice has recently extended the term of office of the Committee of Inquiry to include the criminal proceedings against Fritz Moen, the original criminal proceedings. The enquiry from Tore Sandberg is about the resumption request both in sub-courts and in the Supreme Court. They are, in fact, exempted from the investigation, so that the matters relating to this case are excluded from the scope of the investigation. Nevertheless, I understand that there are some members of Odelstinget – and I assume that Odelstinget’s members have gone through the very thorough documentation that came from Tore Sandberg – who, although it has no direct connection with the notification and the processing of the resumption request by the Supreme Court, want more material from the review committee. And because it has such a short deadline as the end of March, we have also accepted that this is delayed in terms of the record, to the time when we become familiar with the review committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e908	Several have not asked for the word to be given to Minutes No. 28. The President again proposes that the procedure be as follows: The treatment of reference item No 28 have been postponed until the sample appointed by the Government to investigate the criminal cases against Fritz Moen has provided its investigation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e925	The President here proposes that the matter be settled. Siv Jensen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e930	I will be allowed to address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber, as an alternative to the President's position, and I would like to be allowed to justify the proposal. The contents of the letter from RV are actually from the book to former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, where there are therefore very serious allegations about possible leaks from the Government Security Committee. The party of progress is of the opinion that such serious claims, which do not come from anyone, should in fact be examined in greater detail, in order to clarify the facts. Not least, this should be done in the light of the then state councils to which this actually applies. There are persons who have no opportunity to clean up this type of accusation without an examination of the case. That is also the starting point for the Progress Party to promote this proposal, because we believe it is right. Then I assume, since the President has not justified the vote, that there is a majority in this Chamber who support the vote. And I have to say, I'm somewhat surprised at that. I'm amazed at that because it's very rare there are cases of this nature, and when they occur, I think Odelstinget has a special duty to go closer to them, because there are not many other ways to clarify the matter. But that's why I'm dealing with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e941	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. We'll come back to this when we're going to take the final reading of record no. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e944	No one in this room should be in doubt that this is a matter we in the Right feel a considerable discomfort about, firstly because the media's handling of the information that appears in the former Prime Minister Bondevik's book has been interpreted as they have been, and because the search light has been directed to some Right Councils for a relationship that was never investigated when we were in government. And the investigations that have been carried out so far, at least for their own account, indicate that there is no basis for saying that there has been any leakage from the Security Committee in the government. The fact that no investigations were carried out at that time, I believe that it is also not true that information about government disagreements necessarily stems from a meeting of the Security Committee. I think today's government understands that there are disagreements. Information on disagreements may arise in many ways other than through direct leakages from internal meetings of a government. But there is no doubt that there is a considerable discomfort for people when the media also starts to speculate, with anonymous sources, about who it would be, in meetings where there are many people, where some are politicians and others are officials. So the situation is like this, based on our belief that there has actually been no leakage, that there is an incorrect interpretation of a situation in the book of former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. It is understandable that you can sometimes do that kind of thinking, but the connection has probably been wrong. So we had probably thought it would have been most comfortable if a unanimous magnification, with that as the reason, had also settled the matter. Because it is something special to launch studies that are actually preparing for a possible and possible national law. I believe that for all those who have been involved in this, it would have been perceived that the Storting had taken a position and said that there is no basis for doing anything so serious – if it had been a unanimous big deal. But the situation is that when it doesn't, it's almost impossible for the Right today not to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party – not because we think there's a basis for launching this type of investigation, but because when we've been designated as the source of leakages and there's no unanimity in this big deal about settling the case, it means that at least we won't ever get the rumor that we wanted to sweep this under the carpet. And we don't want to sweep this under the carpet. We really wanted it to be declared dead and powerless, because there are people who actually get hit when that kind of speculation is going on. On the other hand, it would have been fully demonstrated if there had been a unanimous biging that had laid down this, and that had in some way given it the upliftment. But when that is not the case, the Right Group will vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party. We don't want to top off what has been published in the media and in the report from Bondevik's book, that we should somehow be able to sweep some issues under the carpet. And I do it with the clear understanding that I have a very good conscience considering what all the Right Governments did in the previous government, and that a possible investigation would show that there were no sources from the Right who should have said something about what happened in the Security Committee. There are probably no sources that have said anything in the Security Committee during the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e961	The Christian People's Party has full confidence in the President's assessment. This is also consistent with the Christian People's Party's assessments and with our conclusion. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the removal of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e969	First, I want to agree with the representative, Siv Jensen, that Odelstinget is going to take it very seriously when you have an assessment of whether you are going to undertake an investigation, which in the next paragraph means starting a possible national court case. I can assure you that this has taken our group very seriously, and we have also studied carefully first and foremost what is the Riksadvokat's letter in the matter. After all, it is clear from the letter of the Advocate General that the Advocate General has found this information of such a nature that it has been assessed whether it should be the subject of an investigation. So it's from the Riksadvokat's letter. So, of course, the National Attorney makes his assessments of this. I allow myself to refer to the conclusion of the Riksadvokat's letter, where it is said: ‘From the material known today, there is nothing leading to the suspicion of any leakage in a particular direction. The lawyer returns to order research against the participants in the meeting who fall outside the circle of persons under § 86 of the Constitution unless the Odelstingen undertakes investigations. For the sake of order, it should also be added, in conclusion, that one of the foregoing has not indicated that investigation would be initiated as to whether the relationship as a whole belonged to the ordinary prosecution authority.’;» It is very difficult to conclude differently after the conclusion of the Advocate General. This is a clear and clear assessment that the case should be settled. The Workers' Party Group fully supports the President's recommendation to settle the case. In addition, I have no reason to doubt what was said by the representative Erna Solberg about the facts of the case. It probably has Right-Right better knowledge than signing. But it's also how I think it's a little special. If you are so sure that there is nothing in it, which corresponds to the conclusion of the Workers' Party, I believe that you should also vote in favour of accommodation. This is not a matter where, for purely party-tactical reasons, one should vote differently. That's my assessment. In summary, my recommendation to the Workers' Party Group is to vote in favour of the President's proposal to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e987	We in the Left also believe that this is a matter that needs to be dealt with properly and properly. We agree with the position of the odelstingspresident, and after Hill-Marta Solberg's posts I have no need to explain it carefully, because she gave a very good reason. My recommendation to the Left Group is that we support the President-in-Office's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e994	The Central Party also gives its support to the President's recommendation. We're some people in that one of course has to take a case like this seriously. It is very rare that we have a case for treatment that could lead to research and possibly national law. We feel that we have taken the matter seriously. We put the same weight, which is already referred from several, on the Riksadvokat's letter. I also join the sitata that Hill-Marta Solberg referred to, and that we also regard as the most relevant. There may be reason to wonder that former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik mentioned this matter as he did, all the time he did not do anything to follow up this himself. But we see no reason why there should be any further action on this matter from the Odelstinget side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e1001	The SV's group has also gone into this matter carefully, because it is not daily that preparations for national law should be started. That's why we've spent a lot of time on it. We have reached the same conclusion as the President-in-Office that the matter must be settled. The reason is that I see the representative Hill-Marta Solberg speaking in a good way. I'm joining that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e1008	I need to point out two relationships. First to the representative Erna Solberg: I understand very well the arguments and reasons of the Right in the matter. I just want to mention that there is no justification from the president, or from the majority in this room, except the fact that you want accommodation. So there is no justification for the conclusion that has been reached. In other words, the claims hang like this in the loose air. There is also a justification of the Progress Party to wish for further investigation. Secondly, I have a little problem using the Riksadvokat's letter as a good reason to resolve the matter. For what the Rikslawyer writes in his letter is that he cannot order an investigation of the case on his own initiative, because it is constitutionally responsible persons who are exposed to these kinds of claims. That means that then Odelstinget must address the matter – therefore the proposal to ask for an examination. So when the lawyer said so clearly that he cannot order such an investigation on his own initiative, he has based himself on the material he knows today, and it is obviously quite small, especially when you have not gone into the matter or investigated it more closely. I think that in itself there is good enough reason that Odelstinget should carry out further investigations of the claims. It may in turn be enough to ensure that there is no national legal case, but that investigations are actually carried out that may be sufficient to lead to a decision in the case. That is the reason of the Advancement Party, and I just have to repeat: no one ever served these claims. It's a former prime minister, a long-standing big-time representative, who at least I expect knows the constitutional rules, knows the system and knows what to do when you make those kind of claims in a book right after you've left as prime minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13-lower.ana.ud2029e1019	Several have not asked for the word to be given to Minutes No. 29. There are two proposals. There is a proposal from the Presidency that the matter should be settled, and the proposal made by Siv Jensen. The Siv Jensen proposal reads: ‘The Board of Appeal requests that the King of the Council of State shall have the effect of assisting the Advocate-General in carrying out the investigation in order to clarify the facts referred to in the letter dated 7 November 2006 from Red Valgallianse and to write from the Advocate-General of the same date, together with the annexes relating to any national liability for potential leakages from a meeting of the Government Security Committee on 8 November 2004, in respect of the persons responsible for the constitution.’;» The President will propose that there be an alternative voter between the Presidency's proposal to deal with the matter and the proposal put forward by Siv Jensen.
