ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e24	The representative Ivar Kristiansen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e35	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e38	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Kari Lise Holmberg, Bent Höie, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I have the honour of proposing to delegate the concession authority for micro and mini-power plants to each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e43	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e46	On behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Gjermund Hagesetter, Børge Brende, Ivar Kristiansen, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I would like to make proposals to grant Statoil's application for an emission permit for a cogeneration plant in Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e51	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e63	The voters wanted change in 2005. That's why we won the red-green election. For this reason, the Government is presenting a budget for 2007 which will change Norway. We want to strengthen the community.We want to take responsibility for the environment.We want to distribute fairly.We want to create values across the country. The 2007 state budget shows that the government is doing well to meet the Soria Moria declaration and keep the promises we made to the voters. We're lucky in Norway. We have room for action. We can choose what we think is most important – and bet on it. The previous government has chosen tax havens. It had a price. The price was too few kindergartens. In school, the price was fewer teachers. The elderly paid the price when they got for poor services. This is what we want to change. The big money is going to go to the big problems. We're going to build the Norwegian welfare state further. Never before in history have so many people in the country had a job. The number of persons employed has increased by 70 000 in the last 12 months and there have been 36 000 fewer unemployed. Low unemployment and high employment are the main objectives of economic policy. Having a job gives you access and the ability to contribute. It creates income for the individual and values for all of us. Earning wages instead of social security means increasing wealth for the unemployed. It's important for fair distribution. Norway is now within its fourth year of strong economic growth. Now it's about making sure that we can have low unemployment for many years to come. The government is providing a government budget that will contribute to it. If we use too much oil money, many jobs in the competitive sector will be at risk. Then unemployment can increase again. If interest rates go up fast and up a lot, a lot of people can have big debt problems. Debt crisis is a bad policy for distribution. We're proposing to use 71 billion oil crowns in 2007. It corresponds to the expected real return of the State pension fund – Rest of the world at 4 pst. We follow the rule of action, as we have said. This gives room to spend 6 billion more oil crowns in 2007 than in 2006. We've never used more oil crowns over a government budget. At the same time, we bring the taxes back to 2004 levels. Within these frameworks, we have cleared up space for major and important reforms that people will notice in their everyday lives. Children are the most valuable parents have, they are the greatest joys of grandparents, and they are the future of society as a whole. The most important thing in life must be the policy. Therefore, the 2007 State budget represents a massive effort on Community solutions for children and young people. There has never been a government budget in the past with such a strong investment in kindergartens – an increase of DKK 3.2 billion. That is what we believe if we are to achieve full child-care coverage in 2007. The budget provides room for 15,800 new children to go to kindergarten in 2007. It corresponds to the children on the waiting list at the beginning of 2007. There is now a national effort to ensure that all children have a kindergarten. The municipalities are in. Preliminary figures suggest that this year municipalities will be able to harness themselves to find good solutions — quickly. And it's time for jam! Babies’ parents are in a desperate situation when they want a nursery, but do not find any safe place for their child. A nursery manager I spoke to the other day told me that she had a daily visit to the kindergarten all August by the desperate little children's parents who were going to try the last way out. They trod up with the child, took the chance that it appeared from its very best side, and hoped for the longest that there was still a place for them. But everyone had to leave her again with the wrong case. She didn't know what solutions they finally found, but we know that a lot of people are flocking together a solution -- with a neighbor one day, day mother two days, grandmother the fourth day, and maybe free the fifth. It's a tiring reality. The government's aim is that no young child's parents should have such a daily life. Our goal is for all children to have a good kindergarten offer. It's an important investment for society. Children are most molded in their earliest years of life. A good kindergarten provides a good basis for learning for the rest of your life. Labour and competence are the main source of future income. The government invests in children and in knowledge. Norway’s main assets are not oil and gas. Norway's most important asset is people. What each of us can contribute to the community is our most important resource. Schools must use the curiosity and learning ability of children and young people. It shall disseminate knowledge and meet the needs of each child. All children must be withdrawn from the start in order to maximise their participation in the construction of Future Norway. We carry out the promise of Knowledge, but with important changes. Privatisation of primary schools was a blind-track. We've left that. There would be increased differences and more centralisation. Now it's going to be put in the primary school around the country. In the election campaign we said, "The floor has been reached for School-Norway. The arrow shall now point upwards.’» Aurskog-Høland municipality is one concrete example of many where it is now moving in the right direction. This year, they have developed their services to citizens in a wide range of areas. In schools, the follow-up to the Knowledge promise has been strengthened, the Government has, no, the students — and the Government — have gained more adults to whom they can contact. [[muttering in the hall]] We have a high level of education in Norway and a good education system. But many have too poor professional benefits from school. We propose to allocate SEK 1.4 billion for the implementation of the Knowledge promise in 2007. The majority have to go to different measures to ensure quality in school. This means the development of skills for teachers and other employees in school, new teaching materials, the strengthening of a number of subjects, including: real science and language, and better learning for linguistic minorities, to mention something. It also means stimulating more varied and motivating teaching. We also want to ensure good school construction. It gives clear signals that school is important and that children and young people are important. It gives a better working environment too small and too large. That's why we're expanding the investment framework for school construction by $2 billion. Many high school students and parents get a big bill every harvest for school books and equipment. The government wants all young people to have a real opportunity to take upper secondary education. That is why we are starting the reform with free teaching materials in the state budget for 2007. We start with free textbooks and digital second-stage learning material for the first year, then for the third stage, and from 2009 the reform is fully implemented, when also the first step is included. In addition, we propose scholarships through the Staten Loan Fund to other necessary teaching materials. While we're going to have a good school offer for everyone, we're going to have research and development at a high level. The Government aims to increase the overall research effort in Norway to 3pst. of GDP by 2010. It's an ambitious goal, and there's going to be a split layer between the state and the business community. We are increasing research appropriations for the state budget by almost 900 million in nominal terms. kr. And we're increasing the research fund by $10 billion. Norway has one of the world’s best health services. We have a high level of competence and good service. We treat more patients than ever. Most of them can tell that they have received excellent treatment from caring professionals. We want to do a good health budget even better. Everyone should get a good health offer, no matter what they serve or where they live. The appropriations for operations in health enterprises are actually increased by DKK 1.6 billion. Of these, 104 million are granted. kr to correct the misalignment of Health West and Health Mid-Norway. Too many people in Norway are struggling with mental illness, without the need for follow-up. It's bad for the individual that's being hit, and it's bad for the nearest one. The roadmap for mental health will be in its ninth and second year of 2007. We're proposing 700 million. kr more to implement this plan next year. In addition, a total of 15 million is proposed. for interventions for children with mentally ill or addicted parents. In the autumn, the government will complete an escalating plan for work on drug problems. Strengthening the municipal and hospital sectors is an important part of the work. At the same time, specific measures are required. The plan shall coordinate the efforts and the Government proposes 50 million. kr more for care measures for drug users. The main efforts for care are made every day in all Norwegian municipalities. It is in the municipalities that older people and caregivers are given the opportunity necessary to live a life worth living. About 40 pst. of local government budgets for health and care. That's why it was so important for the red-green government to give the municipalities a real boost as quickly as we could. For all communities, the change of government made a big difference. Last autumn we increased the total income in the municipalities by SEK 4.6 billion in relation to the Bondevik government's budget proposal. Most were an increase in free income. In the revised national budget, we estimated the growth of total revenue in the current year at DKK 7.1 billion, including the following: after additions to kindergartens. The commitment to well-being and living communities continues in 2007 when we propose a real increase in municipal income of SEK 5.4 billion – SEK 2.4 billion of this is growth in free income. In addition to this investment, the local government sector will retain large additional tax revenues in 2006. This promises your income by a further 2 billion kroner net in the current year. Following this, the estimated growth in free income in 2006 is the highest growth rate in percent of 15 years. In terms of total revenue growth in the last 15 years, it is only at the beginning of the 1990s and in 1997 that growth has been at current levels. The Government will ensure the basis for well-being by prioritising the Community to the State budget and by allocating funds to the municipalities. Then we do our part of the job. But the work is not done without all those who are in first line in Velferds-Norway every single day doing their important job; pre-school teachers and assistants ensure the good kindergarten; teachers get the growing family to master new challenges; health and care workers decide whether the individual is met with respect and understanding. We want to work with those who do the job every day. The public sector shall be renewed and amended together with its employees. Many were worn out by ever new rounds of cut and tightening under the previous government. When our government can put solid budgets at the bottom, we know that it provides a better starting point for good people to do a good job. Services in the public sector shall be of high quality and easily accessible to all. We have therefore intensified work on the use of open standards in the public sector. It ensures that each individual is able to choose which software she wants to use against public IT services. The government therefore proposes to grant 10 million. kr to work with open standards and open source codes. For citizens, this means that they do not need expensive programmes to communicate with the public, thus making public services more accessible to all. Freedom from violence, abuse and crime is an important asset of well-being. The government is therefore increasing its efforts to combat crime. The aim is to prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better. We increase the capacity of prisons and reduce the number of settlement queues. More than 300 new settlements will be created during 2006 and 2007. This is the greatest increase in a very long time. The construction of Halden prison starts in 2007, and the prison is due to be completed in 2009. That'll give you 250 new places to make amends. At the same time, we are increasing efforts to break up crime after absolution when we strengthen training and other services in prisons. At the same time, the government will increase the admission to the Police College to the highest number since 1998. It is important to ensure long-term recruitment and increased staffing in the police and relief services. Very many other areas of the budget also play a major role in preventing crime and in supporting prisoners who will break up with crime. More than half of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons have a drug problem. Therefore, efforts to tackle drug problems are also an important part of combating crime. Prevention for children and young people is important in itself — but also creates a safer society. The government wants most people to have the opportunity for good experiences, quality of life and new impulses. That is why we fully implement the cultural promise in the 2007 state budget. Our goal is to 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes in 2014. When we increase the appropriations by approx. 460 million. kr, we're on track to achieve this goal. Yeah, we're actually in the vicinity of $0.5 billion more for cultural purposes, and that's probably the first time the cultural sector has seen the turn of something that sounds like a billion. Few other budget areas reach so many and give so much activity for the money. Next year’s cultural effort means increasing efforts on orchestras and school corps, strengthening museums, stage art and national cultural buildings, film and rock – and more volunteering centres. In total, there are more than 250 purposes that get small or large additions. Each of them triggers commitment, activity, creativity and joy! We hope that it will be a source of encouragement and inspiration for all those who make a great voluntary effort for children and young people every day. Norway is one of the countries in the world with the least differences between people. Nevertheless, we also have a poverty problem. It is the poor who are particularly hard hit when it seems that everyone else can afford everything. The government presents two action plans together with the State budget — one action plan against poverty and one action plan for the integration and inclusion of the immigrant population. Overall, more than DKK 1 billion is proposed in the areas of many different departments for the two action plans. For the first time, general social assistance rates are increasing more than price increases, when the Government proposes that the indicative social assistance standards be actually increased by 5 pst. The Bondevik II government established its pre-election status in 2005. In four years, they had increased their efforts to tackle poverty by DKK 1.3 billion. After two years, our government has already increased its efforts by NOK 1.5 billion. In addition, the unemployed now get their holiday money back, at 750 million. kr. However, it is equally important that we reject fiscal policies and rates of fair distribution and good Community solutions. Good kindergartens, a school for everyone, free educational materials and a good health care are important distribution policies, because it includes everyone in society – including those who have poor advice. The most important way to combat differences and to include minorities is to secure individual work and income. That is why we are placing massive emphasis on labour market policy, and we are embarking on a qualification programme in which specific vulnerable groups receive financial support, provided that they participate in an individualised programme, that is, adapted to them. A well-functioning labour market and targeted efforts on weak groups provide better opportunities for those who had previously had poor chances of getting a job. We're using that opportunity. On Monday, Norway’s first NAV office was opened in Turkey. During the autumn, 20 such offices will be opened around the country and the whole reform will be implemented by 2010. This is a reform that the Government prioritises very high. Where social security offices, employment offices and social work offices are grouped into one office within the same door, it shall provide better service and follow-up to the individual. It shall allow for tailoring in the offer. Each person shall be seen and have a real opportunity to qualify for work. This is also a big shift for thousands of employees, and we're totally dependent on them for this to work. Now we are in the process of a major and important welfare reform, which has broad support in the Grand Duchy. The reform will not only provide the individual with better opportunities, it will give society greater scope for doing important tasks. 20 pst. of the adult population is not at work, although many have opportunities and wish to do so. These are a lot of people, there are a lot of individuals, and everyone who goes from being safe to getting income saves society for a lot of expenses. It gives room for more well-being. At the same time, those entering the labour market will be involved in solving important tasks. The Intention Agreement on an inclusive working life, the IA Agreement, will stimulate more people to work and prevent exclusion. Since the renewal of the agreement in 2005 for a period ending in 2009, both sick leave and sick leave costs have increased. Long-term sick leave is increasing, and it is popular fear that takes the strain. In 2005, sick leave accounted for around 120 000 yearly jobs. Developments in the current year have further exacerbated the situation. It is very bad news that we have many outside the labour market when we lack labour. Long-term absence is also a major cost for individuals. Of those who had used up their medical rights last year, over 80 pst went. to different social security schemes and thus had to fall to a lower standard of living than they could have had in paid employment. As a result of the strong increase in sick leave, the Government proposes to introduce co-financing responsibilities for employers during the social security period. Many employers can do more to improve the working environment and make it easier for sick people to return to work more quickly. A party-based selection has been set up under the direction of the Prime Minister to review the Government's proposals and the organisations' input. The Committee may propose alternative solutions that would provide for a corresponding expected reduction in sick leave and in the cost of sick pay within the same budgetary framework in public health as in the Government’s proposal. If the recommendations of the sample provide a basis for this, the Government will present a case to the Storting on the follow-up to the selection proposal. It's good times for business. High demand and high export prices generate good performance. The profits of listed companies are increasing sharply. In the first six months of this year, operating results for these companies were DKK 135 billion, almost DKK 50 billion above the level for the first half of 2005. Investments are increasing. For the first six months of this year, 28700 new enterprises have been established, almost 11 pst. more than in the same period last year. In good times, we have to think in the long term and lay the foundation for tomorrow's jobs. That is why the Government is betting on an active district policy. That's why we're betting on expanding broadband across the country. Many of tomorrow's jobs can lie in areas of the country that do not have strong growth today. This is why we are committed to developing the forest industry, through, for example: better tax arrangements. That is why we are working to further develop the fishing industry through marine research. Therefore, it is so important that we have managed to maintain our main and most effective instrument of district policy – a differentiated employer’s fee. This is why we need to focus on research and development in a wide range of areas and thus provide a good basis for the future. The government is presenting a budget for transport that for the first time will comply with the annual NTP framework in its current form both for the State Road Administration and for the Railway Agency. The budget for transport is increasing by over 2 billion kroner. The proposal for a road budget means a significant boost. The size has not been presented since the beginning of the 1990s. Road appropriations are increasing by SEK 1.2 billion – almost 9 pst. This means that we can carry out rational progress on large tribal road projects, and we can launch six new, large national road projects. That means new Kråker Island connection in Fredrikstad. This means Jørstad–Segelstad Bru in Lillehammer and Gausdal municipalities. That means Hardangerbrua in Ulvik and Ullensvang. That means rv. 38 Eklund–Sannidal in Kragerø. That means rv. 17 The Twelfth–Guyøstraumen in Bodø. That means rv. 306 Church Hill – Re border in Horten. The maintenance of Norwegian roads has been neglected for many years. The government wants to reverse that trend. Therefore, we propose to increase the appropriations for maintaining highways by 25 pst. We strengthen the effort for racial protection by over 20 pst. Raising the standard on the road network is a good business policy. It improves the business environment and ensures faster transport of goods and people – especially in the districts. The 2007 Railway Agency budget is a major railway uplift in Norway. The investments in the railway are increasing by 50 pst, and the total railway budget is the best in 25 years, when we keep the Gardermoban out. We can now build new double tracks on the Lysaker-Sandvika route and double tracks between Sandnes and Stavanger. Many other projects will significantly improve the operation of both freight and passenger transport. It is a good business policy to pursue efficient railway policies. It is also important to focus on good public services, especially around the largest cities. An attractive rail offer means that many people use trains instead of cars for work travel and other purposes. It also means that we can get a greater share of freight traffic from road to rail. It saves us from pollution both locally and globally. The government made a clear breach of the economic policy of the previous government when we presented our first government budget last fall. We blew off the right-hand-dominated tax policy. We dropped the taxes that the previous government would introduce for 2006, and we increased the taxes further. In this budget, we bring taxes and levies back to the level they were at in 2004, as we promised the voters. Overall, we have approx. NOK 12 billion more in income that we can use to renovate the community than the previous government would have. This has contributed greatly to our being able to invest in kindergartens, school, health, culture and transport in this budget. Over the entire four-year period, we will together have nearly 50 billion more in common than if the previous government had been allowed to continue its 2006 tax proposal. The richest in Norway are rich mainly because they have large wealth and high capital income. Therefore, the tax system became more equitable when the Storting decided to introduce dividends tax in 2006. And while the opposition wanted less wealth tax, our government chose to maintain this important instrument of distribution policy. In addition, we reinforced the social profile of the property tax by taxing equity assets harder, while many with little wealth received lower taxes on wealth because we set the discount rate. The government will continue in 2007 and proposes to strengthen the distribution profile of the tax system. That's why we're raising the tax on those with high incomes and those with great wealth. We're increasing the top estimate by 1.2 billion dollars. We're increasing the wealth tax, in particular on shares and on units in interest rate funds. We increase the asset tax base and screen pensioners with low income when we reduce the wealth supplement in the tax restriction rule. For employees and pensioners with low incomes, we give tax credits of 800 million. kr when we increase the minimum deduction. The greatest relief goes to taxpayers with income between 150000 and 200000 kroner. The ones with over 1 million. kr in income receives the largest amphibians. For young people and students, I also have a good news. The credit card limit is increased by NOK 10000 – to NOK 40000. This makes it more profitable to go with the newspapers or to get a summer job. The government will clean up ‘snick taxes’. We want people to know when they pay taxes to the community, and when they pay a fee for a service. It is for unnecessary irritation when charges are levied higher than the cost of the service you pay for. Cleaning up into ‘snick taxes’ will contribute to a greater understanding and respect for the payment of taxes. We are therefore in the process of identifying the cost of individual services, in order to determine the right fee. This work takes some time. First of all, we reduce the fees for forced transactions and the fees for driving licences and checks on vehicles. This will add up to 270 million. kr. The clearing of fees will be carried out within the 2004 tax level. The fact that some people do not pay taxes according to their ability also undermines the general tax morality, while the community is being defrauded of income. The government wants to step up efforts to combat financial crime when we strengthen the system of assistant auditors, so that the police across the country can have access to tax expertise and get tax crime to the courts. In the State budget, the Government is also committed to implementing a comprehensive reform — the reorganisation of the tax system. The reform is an example of follow-up in the public sector. Through a broad and inclusive process, all involved have agreed on a reform that decentralises tasks, streamlines and professionalises work and frees resources for better public service and for more controls specifically aimed at business. The government will implement the reform as proposed, and with the locations we proposed in the consultation round. The government increases the VAT on food by one percentage point. Experience with previous changes in the food tax may indicate that the increase will not be fully reflected in the prices of consumers. Within a net tax increase of NOK 2 billion, the Government has found room for several tax reliefs. In addition to increasing the minimum deduction, we exempt the cohabitants from the document fee in the event of a breakup. We're changing the profit tax on voluntary forest protection. We're increasing the trade union deduction, and we're increasing the agricultural deduction. We are increasing the tax advantage of the Forest Fund scheme. We increase the tax-free amount limit for work at home from NOK 1000 to NOK 2000 and we introduce a separate tax deduction to Svalbard. We are facing major environmental and international poverty challenges. The wealthiest parts of the earth's population burden the environment and resources so heavily that others do not have room for wealth growth without breaking the earth's tolerance limits. The challenges associated with global warming resulting from emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases are a serious example of this. The government builds its environmental policy on the principle of sustainable development. There is also a requirement for solidarity with future generations both in Norway and in other countries. We're going to leave something more valuable to the next generation than what we acquired from those who went before us. When the Ministry of Finance has the overall responsibility for sustainable development, it is because ecology and economics are so closely linked. A sensible environmental policy is insurance against future climate change expenditure such as: breed and flooding, acidification of watercourses and loss of endangered species of animals and plants. Al Gore says it like this: ‘It may seem that the climate crisis is coming slowly. But in reality, it's an emergency for our land. We have extensive material that very clearly indicates that the world will experience a number of disasters if we do not quickly and vigorously manage the causes of global warming. We will have many Katarinas in the Atlantic and Pacific regions, and they will bring more death than the Katarina that was born last year." Hurricane Katarina was a great disaster for those who were affected. It took human life and led to great destruction. It also had a huge economic cost. The insurance requirements after the hurricane can reach 100 billion dollars — almost a Norwegian state budget. That is five times as much as the demands of the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Environmental policy is a green thread through this budget. The government proposes to grant 720 million. kr to CO2 chains and cleaning of CO2 from gas power plants. The basic fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy is proposed to be set up with DKK 10 billion. It is also suggested that 100 million be set aside. kr for the purchase of climate allowances to contribute to the achievement of the Kyoto Agreement. The environmental assistance effort is increasing by 350 million. kr. In addition, a historical railway operation of more than 900 million is involved. kr. The government uses taxes and taxes to encourage environmentally friendly actions. As an important step towards meeting one of our major international environmental obligations and in order to reduce acid rain, we are proposing a charge on NOx emissions. In order to facilitate adaptation to the new charge, we will contribute to financing measures to reduce NOx emissions from ships and fishing vessels. The government also proposes to introduce a CO2 tax on domestic use of gas for, among others. heating of dwellings and commercial buildings from 1 July 2007. It would discourage the competitive use of gas for more environmentally friendly alternatives to heating, e.g.: bioenergy. The government is converting the car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. We want a more environmentally friendly car park. CO2 emissions replace cylinder capacity as the basis for calculating the one-off charge. It will encourage the purchase of cars with low CO2 emissions. In addition, bioethanol is exempted from the CO2 tax when it is blended into petrol. We have already exempted the E85, bioethanol, from all charges. The government also proposes to extend the diesel tax to recreational boats. In addition, we propose to strengthen the Ministry of the Environment's budget within, inter alia, territorial protection, management of protected areas, monitoring and protection of biodiversity, measures for the wild and cultural heritage. The capital of the Cultural Memory Fund is proposed to increase by 200 million. kr. My claim is that it has never before been presented to the Stortinget such an offensive environmental budget with such great environmental efforts. Sustainable development is not just about the environment. The poverty gap is perhaps the world's biggest challenge. The government is further escalating the assistance and adding over NOK 2 billion. It's 0.97 pst. of gross national income — up from 0,96. Never before has so much been spent on the state budget for aid, and never before have we been so close to the goal of using 1 pst. of GNI. In addition, we cancel the remaining shipping costs of a total of 520 million. as Egypt, Ecuador, Peru, Jamaica and Sierra Leone have to Norway. Every day, 29,000 children under the age of five die in the world of diseases for which vaccines or treatments are available. That means over 10 million children each year. It's a tragedy we can't let go on. This will combat the UN. Norway has taken the aim of being one of the leading nations in this work. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has been very committed to the matter and has launched the need for a global action plan to save children. The plan is three-fold: we need to provide funding for vaccines for all the children of the world; we need to ensure that national health authorities are strengthened; and we need to ensure that more research is done on health problems and solutions to the diseases affecting the poorest parts of the world. The government will spend 800 million dollars. kr on this. This plan will set out the strategy in the short and long term, and Norway will be fully committed to the objective. Norway is a relatively small country, over large seas and huge natural resources in the north. We claim sovereignty over about 30 pst. of the territory of Europe as a whole. The northern regions represent a unique and vulnerable natural environment. Here is one of the world's largest sources of protein in the form of fish resources. At the same time, this is one of the world's most important regions with unused oil and gas resources. This requires us to manage our tasks and our role wisely. The government has therefore defined the northern areas as its strategic main interest. Here we are facing major challenges in the environment, resource management, energy and security policies. The government is following up the strategic effort on actions in the north. In the 2007 draft budget, the Government has paid particular attention to measures to strengthen cooperation with Russia and other northern countries, follow-up to the Barents Sea Management Plan, increased monitoring, enhanced preparedness and increased knowledge — totaling 270 million. kr. We who live in Norway are among the luckiest in the world. We have large extra revenues from oil and gas. However, it does not exempt us from making demanding choices. We have to put some problems in front of others. We propose using a lot of oil crowns over the 2007 state budget: 71 billion. This corresponds almost as much to the total appropriations of health enterprises or three-quarters of the expenditure on old-age pensions. Every 12th crown of expenditure on government and local government budgets is an oil crown. If we look at the entire oil age as a whole, more than half of the state's oil revenues are used over the state budget. Still, there's always a good purpose in which we could want to spend another million, or maybe even a billion. The problem is that we can't put such expenses on top of everything else. Everyone understands that we cannot use unlimited oil and gas revenues every year. If we dump too much oil money in a situation where we lack people to do the jobs, just the price tag on each problem gets higher. In that case, the interest rate can go up faster and the crown will once again strengthen itself. The economy does not need a 2002 reprisal. Many people remember too well how high interest rates and a strong dollar at that time led to the loss of over 30,000 jobs in a year. Many local communities – especially along the coast – have lost important jobs. We don't have to pretend that it repeats itself. A rapid rise in interest rates will also make life more difficult for all those who have loans: municipalities, businesses and individuals. In particular, in the last five years households have raised large loans. Some young people can now be very vulnerable to interest rate increases. Since the summer of 2005, Norway’s Bank has set up interest rates five times, from 1 3/4 pst. to 3 pst., and the bank announces that the interest rate will gradually be set at a more normal level. This is important to remember for everyone who is considering borrowing. We have decided that we should manage the large oil and gas revenues also in view of our children and grandchildren – and grandchildren. There's a lot of reasons for that. First, it's random that it was exactly our generation that got the opportunity to pump up that oil and gas that it's taken nature millions of years to form. Secondly, we have pushed huge commitments into future generations, commitments relating to the financing of our pensions and to all the care we need when we get many years old. This underlines the need to pursue a sustainable economic policy. The rule of action helps us with this. It is not an objective in itself, but an instrument to help us pursue a sustainable economic policy. Central government pension fund - By the end of 2006 abroad is estimated at NOK 1756 billion. But already today, we have earned age pension rights in the population's debt of NOK 3 900 billion, more than twice as much as there is money in the State pension fund. The amount of these rights is now increasing by nearly NOK 300 billion a year. Therefore, the Stortinget has decided that all the country’s oil and gas revenues should be inserted into the fund and that the withdrawal should correspond to the average real return on capital, estimated at 4 pst. Although the fund is not earmarked for pension expenditure, I think most people understand that using other priority welfare tasks is the bigger the fund, and thus the fund return. To strengthen tomorrow's well-being, we need people who can contribute. The labour force is our most important resource, and the need for increased labour input is great. In August 47 p.m. of the companies in Norway’s Bank’s regional network that labour shortages were a limiting factor in production. Through a broad initiative, the Government facilitates the increased supply of labour. Labour resources outside the ordinary labour market must be mobilised. The NAV reform shall strengthen employment and contribute to an inclusive process in which people who have fallen outside will have the opportunity to try their way into the labour market. The proposal for changes to the sick pay scheme will facilitate better and faster return to work for sick and prevent long-term absences. The clear investment in kindergarten places facilitates increased professional participation for families with children. The ageing of the population underlines the challenges, and the Government's proposals for pension reform, which we present in a few weeks' time, stimulate longer labour input. The government also proposes to strengthen the recruitment work of NAV abroad in order to facilitate labour immigration to address the labour shortage in the future. Although we need skilled labour, we know that many highly educated young people and adults with migrant backgrounds are not allowed to try out on the labour market and are discriminated against. We can't afford this. We need to combat intolerance to ensure Norwegian competitiveness in the future. Erik Brofoss was Minister of Finance after the war. At that time, government, big business and people had most of one project: to return to a country that had been hit by war. They had huge tasks and little money. Brofoss concluded his three-hour financial speech in February 1946 as follows – and the perspective is equally topical today: ‘ [[...]] The government is thus presenting the State budget for 2007. It follows up the Soria Moria statement. It is an offensive budget for more communities. It is a budget that ensures balance in the Norwegian economy. It is a clear political budget, clearly red and green. That shows our choices. I am delighted to see the opposition's alternatives. It will clarify the differences in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e315	The President will propose that a comment round be opened now limited to an entry of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose that we derogate from Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that the Minister of Finance will be given a brief comment of up to 2 minutes after contributions from representatives of each opposition party, and that they will then be given an opportunity to give an answer of up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be given the opportunity to make a final contribution of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e324	The fall selection last harvest was a choice. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party will use Norway’s wealth to provide people with better welfare, better schooling and better elderly care instead of distributing lower taxes to those who have the most from before, as the Right and Advance Party wants. We promised that everyone who wants it will have kindergarten. For this reason, we are adding up to full childcare coverage in 2007. We promised to bet on knowledge. That's why we're taking a big lift for school. We promised free teaching materials in higher education. Now we're going to do it. We promised to strengthen care for the elderly. Now we're doing it through a historic boost for the local economy this year and next year. We are on the right track towards 10,000 new annual jobs in the elderly service. We're strengthening the hospitals. We keep the promise of historical commitment to culture. We are taking a massive rise against poverty. Assistance is increasing more than ever. But in order to share more, we also have to create more. The main demands of business are better transport. We promised to increase the appropriations for road and rail by NOK 2 billion more per year. years than the previous government had planned. We'll keep what we promised. It is the strongest growth in road appropriations of 15 years and for rail of 25 years. We're taking a huge lift for the northern regions. We address Norway’s opportunities for economic development — travel, fishing, forestry, districts. And most importantly, for Norwegian business, it is essential that a responsible economic policy should be pursued that does not increase the pressure on interest rates or threaten business competitiveness. It is the first time since the last Stoltenberg government that a budget has been presented that follows the rule of action. So what's the alternative? Is it the Progress Party with a use of money that, according to the manager of the Bank of Norway, would have immediate effect in terms of a higher interest rate and a stronger krone rate – a policy that will affect young families with high mortgages, a policy that will lead to the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in Norwegian business? The right-wing leader wants a broad bourgeois alliance. What does that mean? Should one build on the Christian People's Party's desire for a strong public school and a strong public hospital, or on the desire of the Progress Party to privatize schools and hospitals? Should we build on the Christian People's Party's desire for increased aid, or on the desire of the Progress Party for dramatic cuts in aid? Should we build on the Christian People's Party's desire to invest in culture, or on the proposals of the Progressive Party on cuts in culture? And what is the alternative to sick pay? Is it the Progress Party's statement that Karen's days are threatening in the background? In the next hour we'll hear that the government should do even more in many areas. Then I would like to remind the Right that the investment on the road and the railway is NOK 2 billion larger than what they themselves thought was necessary when they put themselves in government. I would like to remind the Progress Party that we are now implementing the road and rail system in which the Progress Party agreed in the treatment of the national transport plan. I would like to remind you that the appropriations for hospitals, unlike last year, both cover the growth of activity, cover increased pension requirements, correct the imbalance between different parts of the country and add NOK 1 billion, so that hospitals can reacquire and maintain buildings and equipment. I would like to remind you that the previous government boasted of having invested SEK 1.3 billion against poverty in four years. Now we're increasing the effort by 1.5 billion dollars in just two years. Now it's not time to tell where one could want even more. On the contrary, it's time to tell why the previous government parties and the Progress Party didn't do any more when they had a majority. The answer is that we choose a better community where the selected tax havens. And the challenge is to tell you where to cut to pay where you want to bet more. This is a budget that shows a new direction. It's a budget that shows that the government is fulfilling its promises. It's a budget the government parties are proud of. We look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e346	We have now come to the first budget where today's government has had the opportunity to have full control. This time you have no opportunity to blame others because something was built in, that there were other assumptions, or that others had laid something on the basis that you don't have. Now you have to take full responsibility. When you listen to the Minister of Finance, you get the impression that there is no problem here in taking full responsibility. And that's all right. The Norwegian economy is going very well. We have a very good country in many ways, and in many areas things are going very well in Norwegian business, etc. But it's quite unsocial that from the Government's side you want to build up this oil wealth without giving those who live today the opportunity to enjoy something more good from the wealth we actually have. NOK 2 182 billion is to be spent by the State pension fund – abroad, i.e. the oil fund – on when the next year is over. It is unsocial that you cannot give more in tax laws to those who already have little. You can do that with this oil wealth. You could do a real raise for the minimum pensioners. You could do something real with a system that's unfair to the cohabiting elderly. You could do a real boost for the care of the elderly. I hear the government say that's what you do, but it remains to be seen. I'll come back to it. We have been notified of a proper cleaning-up when it came to government fees, but we find that it is small money – 270 million. kr – which is going to clean up the fees that many people feel are unfair, so you pay more for some services than what it actually costs to produce them. One could really do something about the level of fees in Norway. And the level of charges in Norway is precisely one that weighs on those with small and medium incomes. And then you could actually do something really good with the hospitals' finances. I hear that you are now boasting, among other things. 1,6 mil-liards NOK more to the hospitals. But $1 billion is simply going to cover increased pensions. We know that hospitals and businesses have a total debt of many, many billion dollars. We are not hearing about any major solutions to these challenges today. And how does the world out there experience most of the people? Most people experience that many planned operations are delayed, and many people experience that they do not receive the treatment they thought they were going to receive. There's something that the government has to answer in the future. There were many promises that the Government made in the Soria Moria Declaration. My claim is that the Government will have very poor time to fulfill the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. But now it's not my job to implement the Soria Moria promises, it gets the government answer for itself. I find that many of the promises go on tasks that are currently assigned to the municipalities. This applies, inter alia, to: in the care of the elderly, and in the case of primary and secondary schools. There is the task solution for Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities. The problem is that when you now transfer NOK 2.4 billion more in free money, you will not be guaranteed that this money in the municipalities will be used for what the Government or the Stortinget wanted. So it's free money and not earring. Then to tax-enforcement. It is such that it has never before been paid more taxes in this country. On the other hand, you have a lot of money in relation to our oil wealth. So you could afford to avoid the tax-enhanced government bill of $2 billion. It would make sense to have a predictability. But the government is now back to 2004 levels of taxes. In other words, you will be able to keep that election promise, unless you are tempted in the last two years of the period to increase taxes more. But you're going to make changes. Among other things, there are: changes in the top tax. This means that quite a number of people who now make around 400,000 kroner and up, are going to pay more in top taxes. For many it sounds like high wages, but for some it's not such a huge wage. That means that 65,000 more people have to pay top taxes. Of course, the progress party is not satisfied. Something else did not expect the government either. There are, of course, points that we would like to say are reasonable – I have heard freecard limits and other things. I will come back to that later when we debate the state budget. The government has previously announced that it wants to cooperate with the opposition, and you want to listen to people outside. A final question, to which the Minister of Finance can certainly answer, is therefore whether the Government will actually put in all its prestige that this budget will be adopted just as it is now, or will you listen to people, you will listen to the opposition, and will you listen to all the organisations that come to the hearing in the Financial Committee and in the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e367	To the last one first. The government has now submitted a budget that is well-established in the big groups of the government parties – a budget that we believe is serious is a good budget. But there should be a process in Stortinget. There should be many organisations coming to the hearings here, and there may be adjustments in this budget that make sense after hearing opinions that we have not heard. And of course, if the opposition comes up with a good idea or more, we're also responding to it. But then there are adjustments in the budget if the three party groups agree on it, and if the Government agrees. I had expected the Progress Party to be dissatisfied. Even though we spend more oil than we have ever done, over this state budget – NOK 71 billion, NOK 6 billion more than last year – they want to spend more. But the major challenges we now face in the Norwegian economy are two things. It's about us being close to meeting the capacity limit we have in relation to how much we can actually get. It's not because we need money, it's because we need people. A lot of companies, which I was into, are just saying that they could produce more if they had skilled labour. That's why it's so incredibly important that we find the right point in relation to how much oil money we're going to spend next year. Because if we can't find it, the interest rate goes up fast and up a lot – more than Norway's Bank has expected it to do. This could mean a debt crisis for many young people. If we don't find that point, it could mean that the dollar rate goes up fast and we lose a lot of jobs. So the most important thing we can now lay the foundation for is that we can keep this low unemployment situation as long as possible. For unemployment, the worst distribution policy is one that anyone can pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e374	It's good to hear that you want to look at any reasonable suggestions from the opposition. We really look forward to that. And the Progress Party has many proposals. I'm assuming we can get back to that. As regards the use of oil money, I have found during the summer that, among other things. Jan Davidsen, Per Olaf Lundtägen and more within the government parties' own ranks have actually been very clear that there is now a need to use some more oil money in the Norwegian economy without having the Norwegian economy out of control. I note that the forces in the government parties that ride that horse have actually been defeated in this budget. I find that the government's goal is to reach the 4-percent. You've almost done that, and you're proud of it. For some reason, it has been concluded that this 4-percent of real oil fund returns is the only sacred and the only right thing in the Norwegian economy, regardless of what was used last year. In 2006 the Progress Party was informed by the government parties that no more money could be spent, as it would go wrong. Now the government spends more money, but still within the so-called 4-percent. I am absolutely convinced that there are opportunities to make reasonable investments in the Norwegian economy, through, for example, the Norwegian economy. a proper uplift in the road sector, rather than just investing in foreign shares and debt securities. Now it's like this, for example. in the road sector, we have heard that we are boasting that we are now following up the national transport plan with approximately NOK 2 billion. It's positive. The problem is that you have a big aftertaste, which you can't take again. We know that the total delay on Norwegian roads is NOK 43 billion. What you're doing with these two billions is you're trying to prevent the retard from getting bigger. But the challenge is going to be new investments, which I think we're going to see very little more. What comes from new investments will largely be toll-financed investments. So the drivers have to pay more of the package and the price it costs to have good roads in a country that actually needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e383	For several weeks now, the government has distributed both small and great things, and I record that the Minister of Finance continues today by talking a lot about sharing, but she hardly talks about the value that must also be created. I believe there are two fundamental questions that need to be asked today. The first is whether the budget responds to the challenges facing Norway and the Norwegian economy. We know that we need more labour. Will this budget lead to more of those outside the labour market entering the labour market? Will we have less permeability and more warm hands in care? Is it opened up for more labour immigration, so that we get more skilled labour for Norway? Is it enough to invest in the future so that we can increase the value creation and secure well-being of tomorrow? The second question that the budget has to answer is whether to meet the many needs and concerns that many people feel in everyday life. As a granddaughter, I am very happy that the Minister of Finance is talking about our children. But our children need more than one nursery. The question many parents ask is whether our children are getting enough knowledge of the school. And the question many people are asking is whether we get enough care in the care of the elderly, whether there is a better quality in the care of the elderly. Many ask the question of increased security in the streets, and whether there will be more police. No government has had greater economic space than the red-green government. Right-wing government has ensured that through growth-enhancing tax relief and by investing in knowledge and infrastructure, we have helped to generate greater economic growth. It has given room to increase well-being. I am pleased that the Government is strengthening well-being in important areas. The right will support the existing proposal for growth in the free revenues of municipalities. The alarming thing about the proposal we have received today is that a government that surfs at such good times, however, chooses to cut in tomorrow's well-being. Once again, the red-green parties make higher education and research the losers of the budget. Once again we see that the red-green government will make it less profitable for many to work and save. All countries around us are now focusing more on knowledge, more on research, while the red-green government is moving in the opposite direction, by now cutting within higher education. The Labour Party parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, said in yesterday's debate yesterday that we want to see a 'clearly red-green budget'. Yes, the biggest change in the course of this budget is that the government does not ensure that a policy is in place that allows us to have good times in the future, where we make sure that we also invest in the future, invest in tomorrow's well-being. The right comes in its alternative budget to focus more on knowledge and research. We're going to bet more on road construction and on road maintenance. We're also going to propose growth-promoting tax relief, so it's going to be profitable to work. Ola By Rise said a while ago that he would not play red-green football, for it is to promise a lot and deliver little. I think there are quite a number of voters who are disappointed today – disappointed that the maximum price is being raised in kindergartens, disappointed that it is being cut in higher education and research, disappointed that it is being cut in the defence budget, and disappointed that we have been given a passive health budget. Finally, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In an online meeting just before the election, then opposition leader Jens Stoltenberg received a question from a government employee who had NOK 430,000 in income, whether he would receive a higher tax with a red-green government. Then Jens Stoltenberg said that a person who makes 430,000 kroner would not receive a higher tax on work. On the 21st of March this year Jens Stoltenberg, now Prime Minister, was asked whether he was willing to pay 430,000 kroner in income to this State employee, or whether he would receive a higher tax. The Prime Minister confirmed that he stood by his promise to the civil servant, that one with income of NOK 430,000 would not receive a higher tax. Why has Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen now overrun the Prime Minister and increased the tax on the person who makes NOK 430,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e404	Let me just start by saying that the Right has a very bad case if they try to give the impression that this is a government budget that means big tax incentives for people with very common incomes. It doesn't. That means tax relief, especially for those groups with between 150 000 and 200000 kroner in income. It's almost unchanged for the middle groups. It's primarily those with revenues of over 1 million. kr that will now pay more in tax. We're about to make this choice. The red-green government is saying we're going back to level 2004. It's because we know that we have a mandate from the voters to strengthen the community. It was that the right side lost the election in 2005 because people didn't think tax relief was the most important thing, because people thought the common good was the most important thing. So the representative Sanner is trying to give the impression that this is a government budget where we don't invest for the future. How wrong can you take? What's our main challenge now? It's creating more jobs and getting more people to work, because we now lack the workforce to do everything we would like to do. This is precisely why we are now rolling out the NAV reform with great strength, so that people who have not had the opportunity to get a job in a long time will now have a chance. That's exactly why. There's one more thing in relation to building kindergartens. We do that mainly because children need a nursery place, but that also means that many young children's parents can go back to work with a good conscience. We also strengthen the work we are doing abroad to indicate that Norway needs more labour. And we're investing more in research than before. I think it's almost a little funny when the right starts to demand investment in the transport sector. When did this elk come to the right for asphalt? It was not there until they themselves put in government and had the opportunity to do something about it. Now let's do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e415	Right is a strong defender of the community. When we're dedicated to creating more values, investing in value creation, investing in research, investing in innovation, investing in knowledge, it's precisely because we're dedicated to making the cake bigger, so that there's more room to boost well-being. Therefore, the Right supports the proposal to increase transfers to municipalities. That is why we want to strengthen well-being in some key areas. The Minister of Finance cannot help but ignore the fact that this budget cuts in higher education. The Minister of Finance cannot help but think of a reduction in the level of ambition in research. The right is going to invest more in the future by stepping up efforts in both knowledge and research. I note that the Minister of Finance chooses to go the wrong way from what all the countries around us do. There is nothing new about increasing the road budget from one year to the next. Our government granted more money than was done the last time Jens Stoltenberg was prime minister. It's no wonder that now, when there's more room in the budget, there's more room to invest in roads. I would like to admit that the Right would like to invest even more in the previous period. Now we see that there is room in the budget, and then we believe it is right to focus more on road construction – on new roads and on maintenance of roads. Finally, I'm not saying that there are large tax increases, but it's quite obvious that a government that has received tens of billions of higher tax revenues, nevertheless, it seems right to increase the tax of a government employee who makes NOK 430,000. It is alarming that we are now choosing to increase the tax on savings, to increase the tax on housing. It's completely unnecessary. I find that the red-green parties are increasing taxes, not because it is right, not because it is necessary, but they are increasing the taxes of old habits.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e426	There's maybe one promise people associate with SV more than anyone else. It is promised the right to kindergarten for all and a lower maximum price. We'll keep that promise. Our government has spent money on the largest kindergarten expansion ever, because we think kindergarten is good for the kids and absolutely necessary for the children's parents. I just imagine it: during this ageing period, we're going to see the picture of Øystein Djupedal renting the last child in the nursery queue into the newly opened Soria Moria kindergarten. It's a beautiful sight. The only thing that can prevent us is four Right-Rapporteurs. It is Herman Friele in Bergen, Erling Lae in Oslo – which is not the rapporteur – Leif Johan Sevland in Stavanger and Jostein W. Rovik in Sandnes. There are people who have not done the job so far to make sure that their citizens get the nursery service they deserve. But they have one year on them. They'll be happy! We do our part of the job and provide money for expansion and maximum cost, so that no parent should have to worry about whether they can go back to work when the maternity leave ends, or whether they have to start looking online for childcare without any kind of quality control. This is a budget that is helping to change Norway into a better country for people. I want a Norway that takes the environmental challenges for the planet seriously, and that goes ahead to deal with the warming of the Earth that gives us more dangerous weather, killing tens of thousands of people all over the globe with drought, floods and hurricanes. We're at the head of developing technologies to deposit CO2. We take responsibility for bringing down our emissions here at home. We are betting on railways around the big cities and environmentally friendly cars to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. No government until spring has spent money on CO2 cleaning. No government has spent so much money on rail for the last 25 years – it is 50 pst. increase. No government has invested so much in the development of new renewable energy sources. 10 billion dollars in funds provides return to help people away from power dependence, in the development of bioenergy, windmills and other power generation. This is a huge budget for the environment, and we are proud of that. I want a Norway leading the fight against international poverty and for a fair development in the world. We're going to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of our incomes should go to the development of poorer countries than our own, because we believe fair development is right in the world, because we believe that we are morally responsible – as one of the richest countries in the world, which makes money to sell animals oil to poor countries – to contribute some of our wealth to others. Then we take our share of international responsibility, by making a huge increase that has never been so great in Norway's history in dollars and ears. In dollars and cents, this is a huge promise for development in the world. We're turning developments in Norway where there's someone who's left off because they've contributed less with taxes to the community than others, and where someone's slowed down because the right side of their years of power chose to cut off the welfare offer that they with the worst advice depend on. Today, the daily newspaper has provided documentation showing how the 5,000 richest people in this country have become more than twice as rich, while the average Northman has been getting more moderate to walk with in recent years. And Per-Kristian Foss, the former Minister of Finance, said: ‘Good thing the rich have become richer.’ No, that's not good. It is not good that the richest have become richer when they received tax credits that were paid with cuts in the number of teachers in primary school. It is not good when it was paid with cuts in the unemployment allowance to people who went unemployed. It is not good when it was paid with higher self-esteem and social assistance rates that slowed down in relation to the average Northman's well-being increased. Therefore, we allow people to contribute more to the community and to continue improving the community economy, better schools, more teachers, new schoolbooks in primary schools, more hands in the care of the elderly and better provision for those with drug problems or mental problems. We distribute more fairly in the way that we have heard the Minister of Finance describe. In addition, we increase social assistance rates and help more people get into work. I have a friend who works at high school on the east edge of Oslo. Every year he experiences the same thing: half of the students are in school for the first few weeks without books, because they are waiting for scholarships. They're waiting for scholarships they're going to get. While the students who have good parents with money buy school books, the other students lag behind professionally. These are class differences we do something about when we provide free textbooks. And we're going to keep levelling out the class differences here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e462	The finance minister has the habit of telling us that the previous government prioritised tax reliefs. That's wrong. The previous government prioritised order in the Norwegian economy, thereby increasing tax revenue, which the current government actually benefits from. It should have a good back to carry good days, it's called. Conducting a sensible economic policy requires its back. Kristin Halvorsen has become a driven defender of the rule of action, and that's good. We have a responsibility to manage our oil and gas wealth so that it will be a pleasure not only for us, but also for future generations. It is forward-looking policy, although it may be demanding at the moment. Increased wealth also gives us a unique chance to contribute to the struggle for a fairer distribution of the goods in the world. The Bondevik II Government has the power to increase the aid share every year. We can choose whether to view Norway's growing wealth as a problem because it is challenging to keep the aid share up or as a historic opportunity. Fortunately, the government has followed up and selected the last. This Christian People's Party will give the Government great favor. The government will also be honoured to follow up the religious training reform — one of the most important tasks for the Norwegian Church as well as for different life-view societies. We note that the cash support this year is untouched, although perhaps with a little changing enthusiasm from parts of the Government. The play of this budget has been peculiar: the summer's tax debate, internal cooperation problems have spread to all the public, and so has the health pay case as the crown of the work. We have a budget that is not completely finished from the Government's hand. DKK 2.5 billion still hovers in the uncertain, at least if there are real discussions to take place in the reduced sample, and we have to assume that. Two lifting breaks at least light up to one: the food tax is increased – not exactly in line with the programme of the Centre Party – and the maximum price in kindergartens is increased. Then it is easier for Øystein Djupedal, to quote Holmås, to rent «the last child in the nursery queue». But if that's how the current government is going to fulfill its promises, it's going to happen in the event of a corresponding breach of promises. We may have to take this as a creeping realization that even in this government you realize that full child-care coverage must come first. There is also reason to ask what real increases in the hospital and municipal sectors really mean, not least when one sees what the increase is meant to cover. Here I think there will be surprises for some people each. As far as psychiatry is concerned, it actually looks like it's too downward in relation to the escalation plan that was there. Norway needs labour. At the same time, we have 30,000 disabled people who are unsolicited, and the waiting time is two years. The demand for rapid implementation has been made at the expense of disabled persons with the greatest need for assistance, i.e.: psychologically ill, addicted and disabled. I don't think the red-green government should be familiar with that. For the Christian People's Party, this is really about making working life more inclusive. I had actually believed that the government had more agreed with that. It is a great paradox that addicts are in line for treatment and rehabilitation while treatment sites are empty. Private, non-profit drug services have free capacity, but lack funding for treatment. We can't have it that way. Such system errors stand in the way of help to some of those who need it the most. We have to change that. The government is weakening the appropriations for higher education and universities. It's a paradox. An equally large paradox is the treatment given to individual private colleges by this government. We need more teachers and pre-school teachers, but the government is tightening the grip on important educational institutions, such as the Netherlands. The Academy of Teachers in Bergen. It's not just an unfair policy; it's an incomprehensible down-priority of important educational institutions in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e488	First, I would like to thank Mr Syversen for seeing the great promise of assistance and for expressing common values with today's government in view of our great responsibility to bet on solidarity and to fight poverty. I see, when I see the government budget work from a slightly different side than I have done before, that the Christian People's Party has made a decent effort in this area in its time in government. Where I believe the Christian People's Party is much more in agreement with us than they are with the Right Party and the Advance Party is in the matter of prioritising tax relief. In the last year, the previous government prioritised tax relief – compared with the year it entered – of 24 billion kroner. It is quite obvious that Community solutions have gone at the expense of them. That's what we now want to turn around. In a wide range of areas – in the municipal sector, in the care of drug users – we are now betting on developing and solving new tasks. The psychiatric plan shall be implemented. We're now inside our ninth and next year. It shall be implemented during this 10-year period. We propose increased efforts in relation to drug abuse. We are proposing a scheme for the local economy which, overall, for 2006 and 2007, is beyond the reach of the previous government. It is clear that it is at the bottom as the most important thing you can do to bet on care. So the representative of the Seventeen asks questions about the budget's budget. There's no reason. This budget has been submitted to the Storting because the Government is serious about the framework that lies there. The mandate for the selection, together with the parties currently headed by the Prime Minister, is that they should remain within the same limits as regards the reduction in sick leave and the impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e497	To take this with tax relief: I honestly think that the Minister of Finance is too busy looking at levels. The most important thing is that we have values in this created society that also generate tax revenue. And when the municipalities have a tax entrance this year without equal, it's because the economy is in order, and people are in work, giving tax revenue to the municipalities. I am much more concerned that we create values, which also give income to the community, than by staring me blindly at a single tax rate. I also think the Minister of Finance should be, in order to be completely honest. In terms of the range that the Government has now reduced, it's very interesting. We had a meeting with the social partners yesterday, and they probably have a slightly different understanding of what the sample work will turn into. But I understand that there is a clear message: if the sample does not come with savings measures of NOK 2.5 billion that the Government can accept, the original proposal is there, and it will be implemented. I think that's something the parties will notice. So I'm concerned about what the Minister of Finance was also a little bit concerned about earlier, and that's that there's going to be a democratic process here in the Storting. The budget must be broken against the various actors of democracy before beating here, in six weeks. I hope that we take the footage that comes, seriously, and that the government parties have confidence enough to see that the budget can have weaknesses that should be corrected. A total of NOK 700000 was revised. I hope that the regime of government parties is somewhat more liberal this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e506	It is through the state budget that we show in the most comprehensive way what we want with Norway and Norway's role internationally. It is through the state budget that we must prioritise, show our position on the challenges that require leadership, and show our ideological platform in practical policy. The population of Norway today reaps from the planned construction of Norway by previous generations through conscious social organisation with a mixed economic balance between market forces and popular market correction. The Norwegian people's tradition is to alleviate the short-term capital forces, among other things. through ownership policy. The red-green government has a major role to play in restoring this mixed economic balance, so that the long-term construction of Norway, among other things, takes place. modern communications and incentives for the development of new technologies for the further processing of our natural resources can speed up. We have to get better at that. It's easy to harvest. Our territorial advantage through rich natural resources and a knowledgeable population must be systematically developed. Both for large parts of the economy and for a population living in a tougher climate than most in Europe, it is essential to have a stable and secure energy supply from renewable sources that gives us a advantage internationally. Through this budget, the Government of the Community’s welfare interests is streamlining. There's an important new course that's very exciting, far beyond the ranks of the government parties. Getting high income calls longer for more tax havens! The priorities are forward-looking and very happy. Due to very large geographical distances, the desire of many young families to live more rurally and a rural population with tradition and knowledge in relation to managing the whole country, we have particularly major and decisive challenges in reducing distance disadvantages for both business and population. National transport plan is met for road and rail this year. It's an important stage win. Environmentally, we are now in a uniquely favourable situation if we also collect power through the development of e.g. broadband technology. No one contributes more to the social benefits of this innovation than do those living in pig farms. High-speed broadband for all households is therefore an important follow-up matter in the budget. When people see even more clearly the fantastic use, we need to step up our efforts further through investment in open networks. This results in cost-saving and far higher labour efficiency. By means of public co-financing, we can have an offer-driven expansion. This is in our best political tradition. As a result of a unique national economic freedom, we have a huge challenge in providing enough skilled labour for priority tasks. The government is planning to bring in larger parts of the working population who are currently out of work with their working capacity. Few tasks are more important for people's marine life, and here we have a demanding overall task in a boom that needs to be exploited. Now we're lubricating, because the iron's hot. The strong exponential growth of loan-funded consumption and private investment is worrying. Monetary policy and fiscal policy are central here. It is a challenge far beyond the borders of Norway, but in us the economic prospects are particularly bright, making the challenges extra big and demanding to ensure financial stability and sufficient skilled labour for the tasks of the community. Internationally, differences between people and countries are increasing. With Norway's maritime voice in the world, we have a special responsibility to be a brewer and a small example as a different country in international solidarity. It can't possibly fall into bad soil in the Norwegian population that we give the poorest developing countries the same opportunity as we had in the last century to build a robust business life through the right to dispose of natural resources and the protection of a vulnerable business from brutal international competition. When this would lead to higher import prices of e.g. sugars and clothes, we must show the socialised solidarity through our own wallet. The Central Party is particularly pleased with the international solidarity in the budget. Now we need to strengthen the debate on the use of the money. In the view of the Centre Party, the Government's budget is a sober, responsible and good budget, which shows changes in course in important areas. Many have great expectations for the further work of fulfilling the Soria Moria declaration. It is an advantage for the Government to have impatient support players invited to see the whole, and to participate in the debate on priorities. In this way, we will also be able to implement the necessary changes in course in several key areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e538	On such a day, with confrontation between position and opposition, it must be allowed to be frank and congratulate the Minister of Finance on the day. Nevertheless, it is the end of probably many weeks and months with perhaps the most demanding job you can have in Norway. I must be allowed to do it before I do my job, I would have almost said. Let me also start by saying that never has any government in Norway had so much money to distribute for good purposes. It is also the case that most of these purposes are mutually agreed upon. It is good that we have set ourselves up in this country – with changing governments – that we are able to make the country a little better for every government budget being presented. That joy also has this government and this Minister of Finance. But it is also the case that on top of all this, which is widely agreed, is the policy – the policy choice and the profile differences. I have to admit – and I think many more than today are going to make similar comments – that we may have had a little trouble finding the uniform profile in this budget. I think it bears the mark of – and it is not so surprising – that there have been tough ropes between different states and different parties in government to mark their profile. There's a little climbing and a little travel here and there around the budget as what, I had almost said, is always, but perhaps to an even greater extent this time. When you show the front page of the medal to the extent that this government has now done, everyone sits and asks where the back of the medal is. It's not that it's possible to pay this by taking a few rich people in this country, as one often says rhetorically. Probably most people also have to pay the medal back, so fortunately in a country that has as good a distribution as this country. It's not a very hard blow to a regular income, but there are some small things, some small adjustments. We're going to be honest enough to say that. There are ordinary people who are also involved in paying a lot of the medal's cover. For example, the entry point of the top tax is not regulated, it is sub-regulated. There are several people who are going to pay top taxes, and then we're not talking about rich people, we're talking about teachers with ten years of seniority, ordinary government employees and others. Also, part of the deductions — pay and parental deductions — are not price adjusted. It's going straight to normal people. We're all going to have to take the usual 10 pst. in our homes, it's part of the medal's backside that ordinary people have to pay. I'm not going to mention especially the increased matmoms; that that happened, I kind of have a joint from myself. I think that, after all, makes sense at a time when you're going to collect money. The centre party will have to excuse me if I am in a bad mood once and comfort me with that connection to get back in a good mood. And then it's the individual pension savings that the government is actually aging out, to which I have to say I'm very sceptical, and that also hampers the possibility of a budget settlement. What's even worse about this budget, and where I have the biggest appeal, is that the government hasn't used all the good opportunities they've had to create a forward-looking budget. Then I think especially about what we're going to live on in the future, which other speakers have also been about. It says directly – and it's almost so I had to read it many times – that there's a real decline in the budget of colleges and universities. It's dramatic for the future. It's, in my opinion, a bad research budget, a struggler to keep an eye on the OECD target. It is a small thing that sends a dangerous signal, namely a weakening of the FUNN scheme, which has been such a good system for Norwegian business and has contributed to increased participation in research. So even though the government has tax incentives as its main profile, they have made room for some small tax reliefs as well. It is their alliance partners in the LO and the Bondelag that have received their repayment in the form of tax relief. I will be great enough to praise, and say that I am impressed that the Government has got this aid promise. Until today early I was absolutely sure that they could not. It impresses me that the government has done it with as much money as it requires, with the oil revenues we have. I also think it is very good that is done on environmental and car charges. So for the current budgetary procedure: that is – that is, it is a pre-defined budget. I don't think one should try to create the impression of anything else. Those of us who saw the body language of Schjøtt-Pedersen in the pulpit a while ago are at least sure that there is a budget prepared by the Government. But the great tension is now the budgetary procedure, which is not to be carried out in the Financial Committee but in the Joint Committee. That's where it really happens. Policy is completely out of the picture with regard to this budget. It is the social partners who are now to have the intriguing budgetary procedure. My question to the Minister of Finance, who is going to be on the floor now, is: We hope to succeed, but if not, can the Minister of Finance guarantee – I hope she does not – that they will stand firm on this sick pay proposal, or will it then be appropriate to come up with other proposals in the matter to be promoted to the Storting some scarcely intensive days in November?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e568	First of all, I must thank you for your congratulations. It is true that it has been a little heavy for the undersigned not to be able to participate in the public debate on the State budget until it is presented today. Now my period is like Tause Birgitte over. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e573	It suits you too! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e578	Yeah, I totally agree with that. The second thing I want to say is that it's completely wrong that the impression Sponheim's representative is trying to give of this budget – that it's not a budget with direction. It is a very clear red and green budget that follows our promises from the election campaign, and what is set out in the Soria Moria Government Declaration. I am also pleased that the representative of Sponheim is out when he gives us credit for the effort on aid and for the investment on the environment, because it is a very good budget for the environment. We're really addressing many of the challenges we're facing in the future. So to higher education, which many people have been talking about: yes, that's right -- that's 1 pst. real decline in higher education. It's not the whole world. It is also a sector that has had large increases in recent years and that has earmarked funds of DKK 7 billion. That doesn't mean that the number of places to study is falling. The budget contains a commitment to research, and we increase the Research Fund by DKK 10 billion. It is forward-looking and means that research efforts in many areas can be strengthened in this budget. It's important. So to the question of sick pay and the whole of the budget. I just want to repeat what I have now said initially from the pulpit and in a reply to the representative Syversen: The government is making a proposal to the Stortinget that is serious. We have respect for the Storting, the budget we are presenting is our proposal. At the same time, we have a strong desire to get the process in relation to the social partners into a good track. The selection work is currently in progress. I don't need to go into any more speculations about the work in that sample. Now they're going to get a job and they're going to finish, and then we're going to decide what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e591	Now it's always going to tause Sponheim to get the final word. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e596	I thank you for that. Let me say that when I have had to defend a budget against Kristin Halvorsen over the years, I have experienced that the representative, now Minister of Finance, Kristin Halvorsen was at his best when she whipped over us that there is knowledge we should live on, and there is a commitment to higher education and research that is the big and important business policy. And I thought that, sorry that's right. It should have been a little bit more there, I've always thought. [[Laughter]] I am sure the Minister of Finance also thinks so at this moment, because it is quite clear that this is the weakest point in the budget. I think that's going to show you in the future. We in the Left, and probably the opposition, at least make sure to put your finger on it. It is good that the Research Fund is increased by DKK 10 billion, but the impact of this will only be in the budget after that. That's why this is going to be a year we're losing to research that we could have had more of. So to the question of sick pay. Seriously, yes, I'm not in doubt that the sickness pay proposal that's there is the government's real wish for how this should be done. We all saw how the political pressure, the resistance of the Government's own parliamentary basis in this Chamber, made it necessary to take an 'time out'. Now a formal – and I hope a real – goes around with the parties to come up with a basis and come back on the ground of the IA agreement. For the option – and it says the government – is to break the entire IA agreement. It's made very clear to the opposition yesterday. That's enough, I think, not to succeed – and the chance to pick up as much money on measures that you've never thought of before, I don't think are too big – we're in a situation where the pressure the government experienced a few weeks ago from its own – from a united Norway to say – comes, and probably with even greater force. I don't think the government would be able to deliver this part of the budget if you don't succeed with the parties. Then we suddenly find ourselves in a situation where very much of the budget is going to be turned around on ten to twelve hectic days in Stortinget. This is an exceptional state of Norwegian policy and budgetary treatment that we have not had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e605	Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has the possibility of a final deposit of up to 3 minutes, if she wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e609	I think that some of what I hope would happen when we presented the budget has started through this debate, and there is a discussion about real political priorities for 2007. Now we have presented what are our political priorities, what is our main act, and what we believe is important. It is a clear red and green budget. We are proud to be the government that for the first time meets the objective of the national transport plan, both by road and by rail. We're proud of what means a historic lift for the railway and a very good road budget. We are proud of the efforts we make for children and young people and knowledge. No one must be led to believe that this is a poor budget for knowledge. When you increase the appropriations for kindergartens by SEK 3.2 billion, that's a good knowledge budget. We know through research that kindergartens are a good offer. If any representatives from the Progress Party in the Chamber allow themselves to laugh at it, I would like to point out that they must seek more knowledge. For everyone knows that for distribution and knowledge a good foundation is early in life the best investment you can get. Then it's a good budget for knowledge because we follow up the promise of knowledge. There is a commitment, especially to better methods, to gain basic knowledge of mathematics and Norwegian and to follow up on the skills of teachers. Then it's a good university budget and a high school budget, even though it -- we say it right out -- is a real drop of 1 pst. It's a good research budget. I really think I've been undersold by the hospital economy – I just want to put it straight out. It is because there is a good basis for hospitals to do the job that is going to be demanding, namely to be able to balance. But the budget means that we're going to increase by $1 billion first to take away the pension costs that are coming. So we're going to increase by over 300 million. kr to ensure that the growth of activity can continue in 2007. Then we're further increasing to create the bias distribution and get Health West and Health Middle Norway up where we're going. That's what we're aiming at now. We're making an escalating plan of NOK 1 billion so that health care businesses know what they have to do and can measure up to maintenance costs. In addition, there are investments in the hospital sector in this budget in relation to St. Olavs Hospital, Radium Hospital and Aarhus. All of this means that this is a good hospital budget. I am delighted with the further debate on this. We red-green are ready to defend our budget, and it's a budget that's going to be noticed in people's everyday lives. We're doing very well to keep the promises we've given to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-06.ana.ud2565e622	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance’s presentation of the Government’s proposals for the 2007 government budget be continued in a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
