ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e52	Storing and government is concerned that crime should go down. If this is to be done, it is important that the entire criminal procedure works well. The police have to clear up, the courts have to be ready to judge, and there has to be a criminal reaction ready to be judged. On Friday, the government presented a budget in which all three thoughts were put in their heads at once and in addition thought completely in relation to the fight against crime. We get the highest number of students at the Police College since 1998 – and we record 432 students. The courts received 17.5 million. for the purpose of schooling for a new dispute law. Criminal services will receive 68 new settlements in 2007. If we take 2006, we're up in 316 new places. In addition, there was a raise to the content of the deposit, by 20 million. SEK for education, 5 million. kr for health and 2 mill. to libraries in prison. This is important when we consider that we want a wiser rehabilitation of convicted people. It's been a big discussion in the media and in the political environment about what to do to get better control of the gangs we have in the big cities. I and more people with me believe prevention is one of the most important factors in succeeding in stopping recruitment to the gangs. The Labour Party sees well-being, security and belonging as important values for the prevention of crime. And today's interpellation is on a concrete crime prevention action at grassroots level, namely the Nabohelp Foundation, which was established on 14 November 2000, and which has now established 130 neighbouring zones in Norway. The neighbours of a geographically demarcated residential area take a joint responsibility to safeguard their own neighbourhood. The concept of Nabohelp's main objective is to work for security, well-being and inclusive social cohesion in residential areas while at the same time countering crime, harassment, bullying and accidents. The concept’s target population is residents in residential areas who want to protect their living environment from negative developments. This is particularly true for residential areas with many children, young people, the elderly and immigrants. It's about being a little more of a fellow human being and caring. Establishing a neighbouring zone is a voluntary social exposure of residents, well-beings and housing laws. Does this work? We can use an example from Upper Lagheia, which became a neighbouring area in 1994. The payment of compensation for insurance and damages under the proportion of the rent was NOK 228 000. The security patrol in place — two adults out at times when experience has shown that military activity has taken place. In 1994, the sum of the payments for the same period had fallen to NOK 11 000. It has been on since 1998. There were 16 neighbouring assisted areas in Vågsbyggd, and the number of reviews in this period decreased by 30 pst. for the total of Wågsbygd. We have more recent documentation from the Stovner Police Station in Oslo. They set up a prevention unit, which other police stations should also do. There is a sharp decline in burglaries, car thefts and more serious military activities on Lindeberg and Ellingsrud. This shows that by getting housing on the road to think prevention and replacing police intervention with the neighbouring idea, there will be results. It's useful to care. An important assistant to Nabohelp is Norwegian People's Aid. They have both projects and materials that can be used in this work. They take different courses, including: Mode course, which stands for diversity and dialogue, and give racism a red card. Together with the Norwegian-Russian cultural centre, they support and run the "Women in Conflict" project. As all these measures show, there is still reason to remember the New Year's speech of former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, about the importance of a neighbouring nucleus that cares about what is going on in the community. It is doing a lot of good from engaged people and fires in many communities. Strengthening this work requires good framework conditions for voluntary crime prevention and increased focus on what voluntary actors can contribute to in the fight against crime. What will the Council of State do to strengthen this kind of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e82	First of all, I would like to say that it is good to start a big session with such a case. I hope we can let the session be characterized by this kind of thing and this kind of intrusion to combat crime, but not only that: I hope we can also see the challenges of other problems in other areas of society where we want to reduce the scope of the problem, instead of constantly making repairs in retrospect, which cost much more, and which for the individual affected both by crime and by other societal challenges actually creates greater stress and less quality of life. That's why I like the interpellation. And I would like to join the representative Magnusson Lydvo's emphasis on the importance of voluntary engagement in order to achieve the best possible crime prevention and to build up local responsibility to contribute to safe living conditions in the area in which you live. Such an area may include both a small local environment and a larger area in its own city. The Nabohelp Foundation has drawn much of its inspiration from the 'Neighbourhood Watch' in the United Kingdom, as well as from similar schemes in Canada and Australia. The Foundation’s main ideal objective is to work for security, well-being and coherence in residential areas. Furthermore, the Foundation shall work to prevent crime, harassment, bullying and fear of crime. This shall be done by encouraging residents of natural geographical areas to organise themselves in neighbouring zone areas in order to increase informal social control, to raise awareness of the benefits of securing seas, assets and values and to create belonging, well-being and security in the area of residence. The Foundation bases its business on people caring about their neighborhood and about their neighbors in a positive way — not necessarily in terms of indexing fingers and negative impulses. Neighborhood assistance shall be the neighbor’s extended arm. I think this is very positive. The founding members of Nabohelp are, among other things, Kristiansand municipality, Norske Boligbygelags Landsförbund, Norges Wellförbund and Norsk Folkehelp, which shows that central institutions also close up to this type of activity in order to care for the residential areas locally. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice, together with the Crime Prevention Council, has been a driver and support for the establishment of Neighbourhood Assistance as a crime prevention measure in municipalities and police districts where it is deemed appropriate. This matter is governed by the very small partisan political dispute. Previous governments have done a good job of stimulating this type of action. The Ministry of Justice has provided funds for such activities. In 2002, the Foundation was granted NOK 100 000 and in 2004 NOK 300000. In 2005, NOK 100000 was the amount allocated to it by the Ministry for the purpose of printing information material, planning start-up conferences, marking neighbouring zones and providing general information on the concept of Nabohelp. I am aware that the main cooperation partner has previously been Vesta Insurance, in addition to the fact that the Husbanken has also contributed. However, the activities of the Nabohelp units are based on so-called non-profit projects. We have a common challenge in finding good action and good forms of cooperation. The Foundation contributes with its activities to the discussion on how to meet society’s demands for protection against crime, while the Foundation is an active party in the prevention itself. I consider this to be a very positive contribution, not least in terms of working towards children and young people. An early start in children and young people with behaviour that includes alcohol, violence, crime and other social behaviour contains important information for the adult community, because early start-ups for many can mean a chronic course. The challenge for society is to get in the position to take action when family and children oppose it, or lack other resources to make use of it. It is therefore important to have locally coordinated and cross-cutting efforts for follow-up to children and young people with behavioural problems, where state and municipal actors must be involved with the volunteers. From my point of view, I would like to stress that prevention involves influencing people's awareness and common values. Children and young people represent the most vulnerable and vulnerable population in terms of adverse influence and poor follow-up. Good communities and leisure and activities for young people must be taken into account as part of the prevention work. In this context, extensive cooperation between several actors — both public and private — is important through broad multidisciplinary cooperation. This is also reflected in the budget proposal for the Ministry of Justice for next year. Crime prevention and control is not a responsibility of the police alone. If we think so, we're going to lose a lot in the fight against crime. One of the reasons Norway is relatively low on many criminal targets is that there has been no broad commitment to prevention over a very long period of time. This is a responsibility that needs to be anchored in local authorities and agencies. In this context, the Nabohelp Foundation could have a significant function, not least in cooperation with local police. For example, in the case of: the establishment of local police councils, which will bring together police and local authorities for systematic cooperation, will be most likely to be an important partner by providing information and ideas to enable local knowledge of local problems to be translated into a coordinated effort. There will then be better room for non-governmental organisations, such as NGOs. The Nabohelp Foundation, to promote ideas and to contribute actively to the local volunteer work. I see this absolutely as a strengthening of this kind of voluntary work. It is my hope that this kind of action, such as The Nabohelp Foundation can also help to increase political focus, not only here in the Stortinget, but also in the regional bodies – and not least in the local government – on the considerable responsibility of all politicians at all levels for thinking about prevention. In this way, justice policy is not an exclusive exercise to be carried out by the Justice Department of the Great Britain or by this Chamber, but something that we are totally dependent on to bring together more actors. When the Government just wants to contribute to strengthening measures such as the Nabohelp Foundation, among other things, – and we look at this in relation to the framework currently laid down for the budget for the next year – it is precisely for the purpose of not only being able to take concrete action locally but also of upgrading policy efforts in, among others. drug problems and the prevention of crime. The overall voluntary sector, with its organisations, should also be able to have an important role in the design of an appropriate breeding environment. The volunteers have for a long time been acting as social and cultural tradition and value brokers in our society. Voluntary efforts are not least important in youth work, in voluntary cultural work, in the work on positive activities, such as: The sport movement is responsible for, and for renewing assistance and care in the field of drugs. The voluntary sector makes a significant contribution both to the implementation of actions, as a knowledge and experience intermediary, which pushes towards us in the public sphere, in order to strengthen the growing-up environment. It is therefore important that you also look beyond your own neighborhood. Public action is not only sufficient to create good and positive growth conditions. Voluntary organisations should coordinate their efforts with public authorities and we should coordinate our efforts with voluntary organisations. An active and living civil society is a fundamental prerequisite for the further development of the welfare society with voluntary welfare production. The involvement of volunteers must therefore have a central place in crime prevention. This may include, inter alia: be followed up with the police on the use of concerns with children and young people. The police may have concerns with young people who show a behaviour that, in experience, poses a high risk of crime and negative developments, and where concerns can be identified in this way as a particular important instrument. Similarly, the voluntary organisations, such as the Nabohelp Foundation, will be able to use the model Coordination of Local Crime Prevention Measures (SLTs) to promote cross-border and holistic cooperation at local level with a view to coordinating the actions taken against crime. The goal is not just to think whole and coordinatedly, but to act like this. On the basis of the meeting with the Nabohelp Foundation, my opinion is that the Foundation will be able to contribute here. Having said this, I also find reason to stress that when public authorities highlight the importance of voluntary action, there is no mention of any disclaimer or privatisation in commercial terms of prevention. There are many ways to take responsibility back in view of where the responsibility lies. It is the follow-up of young people to give them both care and responsibility for their own choices. However, co-humanity and informal social control where fellow human beings are ‘bringing’ shall not, however, be a responsibility left solely to the public. The local involvement is a necessary part of the overall picture we have of crime prevention work. Finally, I would like to point out that activities and measures themselves, such as: within the Nabohelp Foundation, if they do not have a direct crime prevention effect, helps to increase the quality of life and the standard, by actually getting more contact with their neighbours, something that anyone could need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e118	I thank you for the articles of the Council of State. As a newly elected member of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I would like to stress how important it is for us, too, that prevention in the municipalities is a high priority. Many of the most important tasks in a municipality are just prevention. Even in kindergarten, social relations are being built; basic values in society are to be taught; in school, we see that the emphasis is on humanity, and the sense of responsibility is to be strengthened. But when it comes to creating security for those who do not have a network, the work is still difficult, perhaps especially in cities. We know they're out there, but how are we going to get to them? It's about facilitating our society to be an inclusive society that avoids stumbling people out of social networks and rather creating more arenas where people are invited to participate in a community where commitment and activity keep people together. The public can be a lot, but can't be anywhere and do everything. Organized voluntary work we are actually good at in Norway. We have a thousand associations and teams doing voluntary work of high socio-economic value, and together they contribute to making our society inclusive. But to remain so, and to be better, we need to acknowledge the value of voluntary prevention work. The fact that people stand together, stand up and dare to care, probably has a higher threshold for many now than before. If the threats have increased, I don't know, but it is better recorded, and people's access to information is clearly greater. This can give rise to a feeling of insecurity in many people. That was also some of what we heard from the representative Magnusson Lydvo earlier. In this regard, I would just like to stress the importance of the local police seeing the value of this cooperation area for voluntary action also in crime prevention. It's important for us that local authorities with the same vision don't fight each other. Unfortunately, we do not get access to everyone – yet. But we're conscious of that and we're constantly trying to work on it, and then there's hope. There are many different people with different needs and abilities in this country. It underlines the importance of having thousands of associations and teams. Therefore, we should make a positive contribution in any form of voluntary work that can safeguard people's well-being and health. Whether it's through organisation or grants, at least we have to make it clear that this is a type of yes policy that we want in all municipalities. We know that prevention costs, but it is, after all, only in the short term. The gain has been shown to be large in the long term. A good government budget has been presented with a clear preventive profile, both through the Poverty Action Plan and through the Integration Action Plan. Therefore, the Municipal Committee would like to encourage the Council of State and the municipalities to work more on disseminating knowledge about different ways of organising voluntary work. We in the municipal committee are pleased that the Justice Committee has put this on the agenda today, and we want to motivate further on in terms of taking preventive action in an overall perspective also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e133	First, I want to pay tribute to the representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo for addressing an interesting problem and an interesting challenge, namely that we look at the value of the role of voluntary teams and organisations in the fight against crime. It's a fact that our success is the result of the total interaction we all stand for, and the different values we take with us. It is probably also true that no one has the exclusive right or the wrong to make different actions. The point of balance is what we work together to do. That's why it's important to be responsive to different approaches. Regardless of whether it is perceived as politically correct or not, I think you will achieve a better result and perhaps a better solution if you listen to things that you are initially skeptical about. Because it's probably also a fact that it's when we challenge ourselves, that we might expand our own horizon, and I think it might be important to do that. Another moment, on which the representative Magnusson Lydvo was also involved, is how do we take care of the local involvement of teams and associations. There is, of course, a point of balance here, when you have a government that at least the undersigned perceives as strongly focused on the public that stands for solutions. At the same time, it is a reality that in Norway being a member of a team or an association is something very many are, and it is a value that we have to take care of. For once again, the totality of what the private teams and associations and the public do is what we're able to deliver and use as a tool for the population where it needs help. In this way, it's important to get this done. The challenge, I think, is how we interact, and how we respect each other's inequalities. An easy way to punish someone who is perceived as disobedient is to look at how to give them support or not support. Substitution and support through the State budget, for example, is an excellent way to show that action is very positive. There are examples of this in the previous period, such as: is continued in the draft budget submitted on Friday. These are things that we fully agree on. At the same time, the other thing we don't agree on. But then we're back to politics. And the policy is to find the patterns and take care of the values that we want. Then it's a fact that the majority decides. It's just like that, and you have to respect it, even if you don't like it. But I think that the most important thing that the Greatness and the Council of State can do is, as I said, to listen to the different recordings, to bring along the good from the different ones, and to pick out the best. Because it's also that if we can do that, we can totally strengthen each other. Well, that's what it's all about, and what's the intention of what's being taken up here: finding a balance point, finding a good balance point, and -- maybe the most important value -- is that people care, that adults care. If that's how we want to fight youth problems in relation to crime, in relation to drugs and in relation to other problems, I think some of the most important things we need are adults who dare to stand there, clear adults who care, and who dare to set limits. If there is something that creates youth in free flight, the youth who experiences you, in my opinion, is growing up without borders. It may be hard to stand there, but someone has to do it. We have the Night Roads, and we have the Nabo Help Foundation, which we are discussing today. It's about visible adults who dare to care, who dare to be there, and who in some way dare to take care of others, who not only think of their own little sphere, but who also look a little wider than that. It's a value that we're going to take care of, of course, and it's a value that I think is general for voluntary Norway in terms of teams and associations. As I see it, at least it becomes one of the most important things to give a honeymoon back. I feel like we're doing it today. The representative Magnusson Lydvo brings this up and gives a reward back to this foundation. And that's exactly what it deserves. We also do it in other contexts, when we discuss other measures. And in relation to what the Council of State had to say – he talked about this with mutual cooperation – I think that if we are to achieve this, we must have a system that also shows a certain balance between roles and thinking in relation to things. It can't be that you have the mentality that it's basically the public that knows about this, and that understands this. You have to have respect for others, you have to re-find a balance point in relation to how to solve things. Finally, I think it is also important that we do not believe that all the other public and private measures will ever replace the police. The challenge here will be the same, namely to find good patterns of interaction between these and the police, which ultimately are those who have to deal with when all the others have failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e148	First, I too would like to commend the interpellant for addressing a very important topic and an important action. It is also an action to which my co-representative Aspaker was one of the initiators and one of the birth helpers. Even though it was a long birth, it was set in motion. In all areas, we must seek to repatriate the individual's personal responsibility for themselves and others. It is, as many have said, a prerequisite for a warmer and safer society. Individuals must take responsibility and also the consequences of violating the norms set by society. It is really showing respect for the free will of the individual. At the same time, the more bourgeois and law-abiding of us can't sit and watch their hands and worry about the evolution of crime and cry a joke, maybe, when you see a bad story on TV, and leave it alone. An important crime prevention measure is that we, for example: intervenes when we see that the children in the neighboring apartment don't have that good. The parents may not be at home, we see that they're about to slip out. Most people refuse to go in and do something, for example: by sending a message of concern to the protection of children, etc., simply because it is painful for us. Then we see that the children that we saw were bad when they were seven to eight years old, committed an armed robbery ten years later. It says something about all of us having a common responsibility to assist in preventing crime. We see that many young people are looking for gangs. They find others who are frustrated, and they find there some kind of belonging – perhaps for the first time in life they find a relative. To quote the representative Magnusson Lydvo: ‘By caring about the people around us in different ways, we will be involved in limiting and preventing criminal acts. This requires good framework conditions for voluntary crime prevention and increased focus on what voluntary actors can contribute to in the fight against crime.’ But as for interpellant questions about what the Council of State can do to strengthen the voluntary sector, and the reference to the New Year's Eve to Gro Harlem Brundtland, it's almost so I could think it was ironic. Most of the Labour Party's policy since 1945, or rather the effect of it – I don't think it has been conscious – has in reality meant building up the voluntary networks, the family and the personal responsibility for themselves and others, by lifting more and more tasks out of the individual's hands and defining them as a political task. Nabokona has simply departed at death; she no longer exists. And that's the result of a policy that is not wanted, so at least the effect of the policy. And cutbacks in support of non-governmental organisations have actually funded tax relief to the trade movement. But I'm not supposed to be sour here. The desire for more private initiative and the initiative of individuals to contribute more to the fight against crime are positive, while it is really beginning at the wrong end, because part of the development of crime we see is the result of the building up of private communities in most other areas. But if it's starting at the wrong end, at least it's starting at one end, and it's positive. If this is also the case, four days after the budget was presented, it is intended to give some leads on any extra dollars that the Minister of Justice has to slip on here in the Grand Duchy in relation to some negotiations over the next six weeks, they will be received with thanks. Another important precautionary measure on which the Minister of Justice was involved is the establishment of police councils. In view of the way that debate has been in the media and the broad consensus that has been in Stortinget, I have to say that we are responding with some disappointment to the budget, where only a pilot project is being announced. We think that's a pretty puzzled bet, when we have established 130 neighbouring zones that practice the SLT model. I have to say it is an ambitious goal to get police advice in as many municipalities as possible, but it is a rather small ambitious implementation that only a pilot project is actually announced in the budget. But it might have to be that way when the budget does not contain fresh money to run the police, which is struggling to implement all the prioritisation signals that have come lately. It is also important to bet on the police because the police have an important role to play in neighbouring aid. It is a prerequisite that the police have time and resources to act as counsellor and advisers for the participants in this work as well. Therefore, the police’s ability to play an active role in this type of crime prevention must also be more than word. It'll cost you. Finally, I would like to say something about what the representative Ellingen said about this with a limit setting. We'll get back to St.meld. No 20 for 2005-2006 on young people in prison. It is important that we then also discuss the limitation of those who are under the criminal detainee, and find responses so that we prevent discussions about whether they should be sentenced and put into prison at all. I think we have a job to do here. It is important that adults get up, say and set clear limits as early as possible, and that we do not do what is most comfortable for us – sit down and let it scour and walk, and then since then complain when we watch TV that more and more young people are recruited into gangs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e175	Let me start by thanking the representative Magnusson Lydvo for having taken up the role of volunteering in preventing crime. The Minister of Justice has previously stated that better prevention is one of three lighthouses, which one can call it, on which he builds in his work. I think it's great that we have a Minister of Justice who clearly sees that the surest way to reduce crime is to prevent it, and that's so good to show that this often requires a job across departments and networks, for example. between public and voluntary organisations. He also pulled that out in his post. There is room for a stronger focus on what we as citizens and voluntary organisations can do to strengthen the prevention work, and on the integration of former convictions and integration in general. We in the Center Party are sure that there is a great untapped potential here. As previously mentioned, the Foundation called for Nabohelp to establish neighbouring zones in residential areas or barricades and to target children, young people and the elderly in particular. In our view, this is a particularly important work to create well-being, belongings and security in the community. This foundation is in practice contributing to the creation of safe communities. Knowing the belongings to one place is important to all of us. It's probably none of us who want to destroy or damage something that we consider our own. This is why it says itself that building safe communities is itself crime prevention work. Neighborhood assistance is part of a mosaic of voluntary work around communities where people participate in organisational life across social divisions and participate in prevention every day. So just a little word for the post of the representative Dahl, who spent the time criticising the Workers' Party's work in relation to voluntary organisations, and let me say this: if there is something that leads to less solidarity and care in our society, there is a policy with such a single individual focus as the representative Dahl's party has led – that we should all forge our own happiness, competitive exposure and privatisation. Building solidarity is just creating arenas for people where one can gather across social divisions and work together to develop communities further. Here, volunteers have an important role to play. It's got the interpellant coming up, and it's got the Central Party's full support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e188	I would also like to thank the interpellant, but for a slightly different reason than the other – that the interpellant has raised the question of the need to protect about volunteering. I think we should be so sincere, all of us who have long political experience, that's also true of the Council of States, to say that we know that this voluntary effort across party-political dividing lines is being pushed by a bureaucracy across the country. In fact, when voluntary organisations are to be included in a business plan and only receive a value when they are selected in the business plan, they are killed by the voluntary. When the interpellant travels the theme, I will choose to say something through the President – the following: I know, and have deep respect for the fact that the Council of State that is now sitting is committed to this. I think he should use that commitment on all the paths he is now, not least on the internal path of the systems, when the good intentions' regulatory management suddenly turns out in such a way that there is smurfing on the volunteer. There are many places happening, and I think that all of us who represent different political parties have to be careful in the local area too, because this regulatory management, where something gets value only when it's checked in a business plan, is mindless. For example, it gets: I don't have an acquaintance of mine, a lawyer at Oslo West, who thinks it's important to work 20 hours a week to help young people, and who talk about our children and not yours and my children. This volunteer is there. It just has to be seen and accepted, and I feel that the interpellant gives a honeymoon to it. I think that's very positive. This voluntary nature exists throughout Norway, if it is asked for and properly organised. I think it's about, as the Minister of Justice was about, a tough and systematic work that you have to do, because it's very easy to let go of it. Then I'll try to make some points clear. I think the police are going to be left with very much alone if you don't actively build the lines of cooperation with others, because in practice, the police are Norway's 24-hour child protection and social services when everything else doesn't go to. In order for the police not to be left alone with this, I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that it must be mobilised. Then the neighbouring zone project and the neighbouring aid project from Kristiansand are excellent. I know the examples from Groruddalen very well, and they are also excellent. They deal with the creation of voluntary networks, such as: by something as simple as street lights. The presence of normal people creates security. But it is also important for the police to know that they have the other helpers, that it is the status of the police to be able to work in this way – that there is honor and honor in it. I feel that the Grand Mountains from here today have given such a signal that it attaches great honor to it. I'd like to underline that. When such efforts are made, they must be long-term. Consider the example of the 20 - year - old policeman in Sarpsborg, a town with a birthing coal of about 20 years. 600, which then started with 20–25 stanzas 20–25 — to use the Norwegian language — 20 years later with two or three. It's tough and systematic work that means that someone cares. Then we also get into the very central point, which the representative Ellingen brought up, clear adults. Perhaps one of the most important things we can do is to ensure that young social workers and child protection workers receive enough guidance after education, so that they also dare to be clear and not just professionals, and that we focus so much on our teachers that they come out not only as professionally skilled but as safe and clear adults. The absence of clear adults makes the boundaries flow, they are simply not set. I think it's an important matter for all of us. Then, of course, we have the patterns that we know well about. The incomprehensible abbreviation SLT is almost senseless, but it is a matter of good local cooperation to prevent crime and to rescue children and young people. It is common in many municipalities, and in this large city it is introduced in all parts of the city. I know it's on the way, and it works okay when someone's working on it. One of the most important things to do is to do so much cultural massage that different professionals relax so much that they don't know the obligation of professional secrecy. There is no Norwegian legal provision for any professional who does not know how to work together to save anyone from harm. This cultural massif must be operated continuously unless the reflections of basic education are ignored. I use the opportunity to sign back to a government council that was rowdy enough to draw long political lines and say that the work must continue in the sense that the cultural massacre must also continue. Both ministries and professionals need to be massaged so much that they relax, see kids, see adults and see people — yes, at all events realize that systems exist for people and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e209	It was very commendable by the representative Magnusson Lydvo to travel this interpellation, and it was a very good account from the Council of State today. The neighbourhood aid project is a very good measure. It is based on what has been done in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom in the past, as explained by the Great Mountains. The experience from all these countries with the Nabohelp project has been very positive. Intrusions and thefts have fallen dramatically, and there are reduced damage payments from insurance companies, but perhaps the most positive thing about many of these projects where they have existed is that those living in the areas have gained an increased sense of security. I am not going to repeat what has been said in the debate, but I am going to talk about something that the Council of State did not mention, and that is that you can possibly draw the insurance companies a little bit more. If Non-life Insurance has been running a project for quite many years, also called Neighborhood Help, where you can give your key to a security company or a neighbour, and it will be registered with If who has the key. Then you have someone to look after your house, turn off and turn on light and see if anything should happen. This is just one measure that has not been in the debate here, which I will take with me. Otherwise I will repeat that it was a very good recording from Magnusson Lydvo. I hope the Council of State will bring along the recordings, not only those who have come from this room today, but all the recordings that will come from different teams and associations around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e218	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave here instead. I have actually had the pleasure of following Nabohelp from the very beginning. I think at the time it was established, we all very much agreed that this was a great idea. We had seen some positive experiences from England, and the Council of State also mentioned a few other countries from which we had experience and had studied. If we look back, we see that there were also many more fires at the time than there were money in the public system. I don't think it's too much to say if you say that without OBOS and Norwegian People's Aids setting up that time, and without Vesta Insurance also put a lot of money on the table, I actually don't think the foundation had seen the light of day. I also think there has been a very important support in the years that followed in order for the work to continue. By that I mean to say that I believe that the Nabohelp Foundation is still a shattered construction work. No matter where we are in the voluntary sector, there are many fires, and we know that fires can burn out if they don't get recognition for the job they're doing. In this case, I believe that all of us who have spoken today give great recognition to Neighborhood Help for the job they have done, and for the value of the job done. I believe that the legitimacy that the Council of State today gives to the Nabohelp Foundation, and that I also realized that my co-representatives have done here, is important for the foundation to take on the road further. So also I and the Right believe that it has a self-esteem for us as human beings that in different contexts we can actually be of help and support to each other in a neighboring community. But the Nabohelp Foundation and the neighbouring zones are also totally dependent on police assistance. The police have been a very important premiscuous provider, supervisor and helper in these neighbouring zones. Then it is well to say that this is also felt by the police as a bit fire-based. We agree that we have a common challenge in providing prevention work with higher police status. The Minister of Justice is now pointing to the Nabohelp Foundation as a current member of the police and local authorities when police councils are set up. In fact, I believe that the Nabohelp Foundation can contribute to giving concrete content to these police councils and making some of that work understandable, and that it can involve Everyman, i.e. most people at municipal level. I think that would actually help to give the police councils around the municipalities the very best start, that most people can see what’s in it for me, that is, that there is something concrete that will mean something for them to establish. I also believe that what is important with these neighbouring zones is that they are not primarily problem-focused in the way that you are looking to hang out those who may have done something wrong, but that you are concerned that the community should take care of each other and help everyone to have it safe and well in the local environment. Then I too, with the experience I have from the neighbouring aid work, experience that we are living in an age of ever-increasing mobility. In fact, the neighbouring zones are also described, that it was the neighboring aid that was the social glue in the neighborhoods. Those who had undertaken to be a kind of management in the neighborhood zone, knocked on the door of new neighbors, welcomed them and told them about the work that was going on in the neighborhood. In this way, we can say that this will also be an important measure in integration work, no matter what background you have when you move into a neighborhood. I see that the state council's posts today are really an outstretched hand to the Nabohelp Foundation. I really want to challenge the Council of State and ask him if the Ministry of Justice will facilitate that this foundation can now have some resources to play a role and be a contributor to the establishment of police councils in the respective municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e235	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is great that we are so united and united politically here today in the sense that prevention work is very important, and that the Council of State here gave us such a clear answer. There are nevertheless some political disagreements, according to the intervention by the representative Dahl. I do not fully agree with his presentation of the Labour Party's policy. The representative Sande was concerned that what is important from our point of view is that people have meeting places. Places where people can meet independently of different backgrounds and values are very important for getting a community where you care about each other. Of course, prevention actors are police, but municipalities also have a responsibility to get preventive work together with non-governmental organisations. What's going to be the challenge here is to get to this interaction and get the most out of it. That's exactly why we've submitted to the police council, that we're going to get them to interact, so that we get the most out of the crime prevention work, which is so important. In this debate, we have just focused on prevention and have seen how important this is. We used the example of Nabohelpen, because it's an action that actually works, and that makes us have non-governmental organisations that are important to us in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e247	I'll just briefly say something about the important input that has come into the debate, because there are several challenges in this debate that I think everyone is going to take very seriously. When we talk about prevention, we often get the impression that there is some soft ‘gear’ that is very easy to implement. It's about an attitude campaign, and so on. I believe that prevention locally is totally dependent on making a more committed and serious policy, and it should actually cost some political money for those who go into it. It's about local drug policy. It's about, as the representative Dørum was about, questions about planning and building law, street lights and their like, so it's very important local policy road choices to be made and that can be subject to rather tough political balances. But we're totally dependent on us getting to life in the political debate. That's why I think the volunteers are important. It is not such that the Workers' Party should in any way be a brake pad in terms of volunteering. The Labour Party has just its background in volunteering. One of the important countercultural organisations, the international movement, in Norway, together with both the target and the abstinence, was, of course, the labour movement. The Labour Party has – I was about to say – its birth on a voluntary basis. There's nothing in the budget, if we draw the line all the way up to today, which was to talk because we want to downgrade it, rather the opposite. I believe that we are doing a couple of things there that we want both justice politicians, municipal politicians and the Stortinget to notice in relation to the work we are now facing. And then I have to say that I think the representative of Kristoffersen Kosmo has a very good point in terms of security for those who don't have a network, too, that it's a huge challenge for us. There are many who go beyond the traditional prevention tracks and the traditional voluntary organisations — a bit in the wake of the speech of the prime minister when he opened the Stortinge — i.e. those who do not have organisations to represent themselves, those who are subjected to violence in close relations, 200,000–300,000 children in Norway who say they feel threatened or exposed to acts at home and who do not have organisations or volunteers to deal with them. I believe that we must also focus on this, so that many in the debate actually have to give them their vote. It's a big challenge that's not just being solved from this room. I would also point to the moment when the representative of Mr Dørum was in the Chamber, that we must not now make rules which in many ways have all the good intentions but which are strangling the will. Our efforts in relation to the police council are precisely geared to the fact that the police councils to be set up must not strangle the possibility for voluntary actors to be involved. There must be flexible arrangements, so that people can make room to contribute locally, seagoing if there are many local variations. I am prepared to have a debate on the budget, where the Committee, and the Stortinget, will also help to prioritise within the great framework we have in terms of volunteering, and to give signals on, among other things. the organisations that should be supported. I am willing to be responsive to both the opposition and the majority in this matter, because I believe that there is an important way to exercise power from this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e262	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e280	In Norway, gender balance in large parts of the higher education sector is very uneven. In 2005, women made up 17 p.m. by the professors in the sector. Despite the fact that equality in academia has been a problem for a long time, the picture doesn't seem to change radically. Statistics show that women make up 37 pst. by permanent scientific/professional staff in the university and higher education sectors. Women's share is lower the further one comes up in the system. For example, humanities are the subject area where one has had the largest proportion of women among professors in the last decades. For comparison, numbers from medicine, including health care, show that women make up 20 pst. by the professors. Continuing the growth of the proportion of women among them at the same level as in the last 20 years, social sciences as the first subject area will achieve equal numbers of both sexes before 2035. These are statistics that worry, because the speech of the figures is clear: women are underrepresented in scientific positions, and the imbalance is increasing higher in the system. Explanations of non-equality are many. Many women can get far into their academic careers before they feel the problem of gender equality on the body. Compared to other sectors of society, such as education and policy, developments in the research sector have been markedly short. The consequences of this are many. The democratic perspective is worrying about the types of research projects that are given priority. Many people believe that this is the case in medical research. Human-related diseases can be documented through years of research. Women’s diseases are often underestimated and psychologicalised. Few women have top positions within academia, and they also have great significance for those who sit in councils and selections who have a strong influence on how our society evolves. It is also a democratic challenge. As long as the lack of equality is a characteristic of the university and higher education sectors, I would argue that our research is not excellent enough – this is because we do not use all the talents. In all research projects, it is important for the results and quality of research that many think and work together. It is also important for both women and men to participate, taking into account the issues involved and how a person approaches the research projects. I know that the Minister of Knowledge is very concerned about this, which I think is promising for us to move on in the work on gender equality in the Academy. Equality is a leadership responsibility. The future of Norwegian research does not consist merely of providing enough financial resources. It is also essential that a thing be done to create more competent and living research environments. Universities and colleges have great freedom. All objectives, plans and strategies for the sector’s activities are adopted here. So far, we have seen too little about equality being one of the strategic objectives of the different institutions. Objectives and plans will easily be empty words if one does not ensure that they are incorporated into the strategies that it has as its governing body to pass on to the institution. We also know little about the inner life of universities and colleges. Labour research is conducted on a large scale but not by the institutions that carry it out. It could be of interest to us to know what the working environment of these institutions is like, and what forces contribute to the reproduction of gender inequalities. The quality reform is currently being evaluated. We'll get answers to how that reform works on different aspects of higher education. I do not know whether the gender perspective is part of that evaluation, but that is one of the questions I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge. The Research Council plays a very central role in allocating financial resources to different research projects. We know, of course, that normal quota rules cannot be applied in research or in the addition of professors, but there may be opportunities for the Research Council to have instruments to better maintain gender balance in the various projects. The usual sex quota with the 40 pst rule is not the way to go, but there are enough possibilities for a worker to work on the problem. The previous councillor, Kristin Klemet, set up a committee: Women in research. The work of this committee has given us new knowledge and, perhaps most importantly, a new focus on women being underrepresented in academia. How does the Minister of Knowledge think this works? Is it a scheme he thinks it's worth going on? My opinion is that it is well and good with the knowledge, but that nothing happens until the consciousness of a problem area is strongly present. I believe that the university and higher education sectors, together with the politicians, need to continue work on gender equality in academia. All parties must think alternately. I am concerned that the whip should be replaced with positive instruments. For example, we who are politicians can. provide economic incentives to reward those institutions seeking full equality. We can initiate a national equality and broad recruitment commitment to the sector, in the sense that we get a more heterogeneous and diverse research environment. At all, many initiatives can be taken. However, the most important thing is that each institution follows up on measures and makes it possible to achieve equality. There are many measures that can contribute to increasing gender equality. A female researcher was asked what to do to recruit female researchers. Her answer was permanent jobs and several children's playgrounds. After all, it is a priority area for the Government, which will implement full child-care coverage and reduce access to temporary employment within the Academy. Temporary employment creates uncertainty for many, and therefore many women in particular opt out of the academy. There are many ways in which this can be done. in the absence of equality. Today’s women will not find themselves in old-fashioned attitudes to sex or be stopped by the ‘wait and see’ strategy. Then they'll just disappear into a competing business and leave the research. It cannot afford Norway as a knowledge nation. We have to take care of the best scientists regardless of gender. It is therefore urgent that universities and colleges speed up the recruitment of more women into senior positions. The work to be done just in the four-year period we're in is becoming crucial, I think, for how the research will evolve in our country. I look forward to hearing how the Minister of Knowledge assesses the situation today, and how he sees it that government, greatness and others can contribute to this in my view important work. Universities and colleges are some of the most important institutions we have in terms of how our society is going to evolve. That's why I'm impatient on behalf of universities and colleges to take care of all the talents regardless of gender in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e312	Let me first thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. Let me also say that I very much agree with what the representative, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, says about the biased gender distribution in higher scientific positions. This is a major challenge for our society. Fresh numbers show that evolution is going in the right direction, but it's going very late. In 2005, the number was 41 pst. by those added to teaching and research positions, women, against 39 pst. in 2003. The proportion of women in peak scientific positions is increasing, but is still low. The DBH figures, which are the figures used by the Department in the State budget, show that in 2003 there were 16 pst. female professors, while the figure in 2005 had risen to below 17 p.m. The number of women in the first amanuensis/first-level rector category was 29 pst in 2003, and in 2005 it had increased to below 32 pst. These numbers show that it's going too late. Women make up 40 pst. of the doctoral students. Social sciences, humanities, agricultural science/veterinary medicine and medicine are now subjects with a reasonable gender balance at the recruitment level. In the field of mathematical science, gender balance has improved in the period 1995–2005, but it is still distorted by only 29 pst. women in 2005. The proportion of women is known to be particularly low in the fields of mathematics, science and technology. It is therefore gratifying to register that 50 pst. Women were among those who were offered study places in the field of real-life education in the autumn. The proportion of women at the recruitment level is good, while the increase in higher scientific positions is lower than what we can accept. However, I am a careful optimist. Gender equality measures are targeted at several levels in the sector. A number of qualification measures are in place for women at universities and higher education institutions. The Ministry of Knowledge now assesses different instruments for special treatment of the under-represented sex and, as the inter-pellant was involved, the Women in Research Committee will present a report to the Ministry during the autumn, with its proposals for new measures. I will explain in the following below what measures are being taken. Equality must be ensured by recruitment and job creation. The title of a professor is obtained either through the addition or through the national system of convocation to a professor by competence. The professorship system has had a positive effect on gender equality. In the context of the main tariff settlement per year On 1 July of this year, the parties agreed that a system of uplifts should also be introduced from the first lecturer to the dosent. I expect that this scheme will also have an effect on gender equality. Increasing the proportion of women in higher scientific positions is, among other things, on qualification and qualification takes time. Many educational institutions are working to improve the professional competence of their staff. A majority of higher education institutions have drawn up primary school programmes. Such measures are particularly important for women because they are in the majority of the lower job categories. First-level programmes are thus not only promoting skills but also promoting gender equality. National body for quality in education, NOCUT, has required the reaccreditation of nurse training to be 20 pst. teaching staff must have first position competence by 10 November 2007. In the revised national budget this year, the Government granted 11.9 million. kr to the first lecturer’s programme in nursing training. An estimate prepared by the Council of Universities and Higher Education suggests that some 100 people need to complete primary or doctoral programmes in order to meet the requirements. These are qualification measures that mainly go to women, and that will result from us at the end of 2007 will have far more women with first-reading skills. Unfortunately, we have to note that in the university and higher education sectors women are not included in the management of the centres for excellent research. In the 2005 call for funds for new centres of excellence, the Research Council has clarified its ambitions for gender equality. Applicants are asked to integrate gender equality into the planning of new centres and to provide gender equality targets. In addition, the Research Council has earmarked part of the provision of equality centres. I look forward to monitoring the impact of these instruments. With the Quality Reform and the new University and Higher Education Act, the institutions were given greater strategic responsibility for their own development. The policies of each institution are therefore crucial for achieving objectives in the field of gender equality. Institutions have used a number of instruments to improve the gender equality situation in studies and research. I have noted with pleasure that many of the universities place equality high on the agenda, and that of course this is anchored in management. Even on 7 November this year, I will be present at the hearing on a new action plan for gender equality at the University of Oslo. The University of Oslo wishes to present itself as the world's first gender-balanced university in 2011, at its 200th anniversary. The University of Bergen also has ambitions to become a university of excellence in gender equality. If the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen achieve a better gender balance, it will have an impact on national statistics, while inspiring the other educational institutions. The Ministry of Knowledge systematically addresses gender equality as a theme at the level management meetings with universities and colleges. It has been emphasised that I expect better results in this area during the year's etching sessions. The Ministry of Knowledge sets objectives for gender equality by letter of award to each institution. The Ministry has made it clear through the etat management meetings and letters of allocation that equality is a priority area and that results are required. The causes of the biased gender distribution in the academy are many and complex. The government said in the Soria Moria statement that we are willing to discriminate against the underrepresented sex if that's what it takes to achieve a better gender balance. It is also accessible under today's Equality Act. Different treatment is lawful if it promotes gender equality. Of course, the high quality requirements for addition and recruitment to higher scientific positions are firm and will continue to do so in the future. The research sector was deprived of an effective instrument for gender equality when the EFTA Court of Justice, almost four years ago, concluded that the designation of women’s positions is contrary to the EEA Agreement and the Non-discrimination Directive. The Ministry has been informed that some EU countries are using economic instruments to recruit the underrepresented sex. The Ministry of Knowledge now looks at the possibilities we have to implement such measures, and we are in contact with the EU on this. The current instruments must be robust and designed in such a way that they do not conflict with international conventions and directives that Norway has undertaken to comply with. Many of those now employed in professorships will lose their pension within a decade, and new people will come into existence. New releases are a necessary, but not sufficient, condition to increase the number of women in higher scientific positions. A study conducted by NIFU STEP on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research in the autumn of 2004 showed that open, wide and as transparent competitions on positions were among the factors that characterized environments that succeeded in recruiting and retaining women. This was combined with a conscious recruitment and gender equality policy. In order to support the institutions in their gender equality work, the Ministry of Education and Research set up the Committee on Integration Actions – Women in Research – in January 2004. The Committee shall have, inter alia: completed meetings with universities and a number of colleges and challenged them and advised them on strategic equality issues. They have also had several such meetings with the Research Council, which is a very important player in the allocation of research funds. The Committee has developed its own equal opportunities resource bank in the academia, such as: contains a catalogue of good equality measures. As I mentioned earlier, during the autumn, the Committee on Women in Research will present a report to the Ministry proposing new equality measures. We will go through the proposals carefully and consider whether and how these measures can be implemented. The Ministry of Knowledge has granted money to follow the recommendations of the Committee. I would like to begin by thanking the interpellant for a good initiative by raising this debate, for this is a subject that we must constantly be impatient with. The majority and the ministry have an important role to play in promoting and ensuring that we are more successful in this equality work. That means I'm looking forward to this debate, because it'll be enough for this important work to come forward. Even though it's been moving forward carefully, it's just like the interpellant says, we're not near to achieving the goals we have, namely equality in the academy. That's our common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e350	I must thank the Minister of Knowledge for the answer he gives to my interpellation. I think what comes out is offensive from the Minister of Knowledge, and I am particularly pleased with the measures outlined by the Minister of Knowledge to be followed up in the coming time. What the Council of State says about many of our universities having increased attention to the issue of gender equality, and that he also mentions the hearing to be held at the University of Oslo on 7 November about this in advance of the work on a new equality plan there, I believe that the Minister of Knowledge is offensive in relation to participating in the debate on gender equality in the Academy. I think it's just important that one shows attention and is present where the type of problem is discussed. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge addresses these kinds of issues in the letter of assignment to universities and colleges and is also willing to use the Equality Act, but in such a way that it does not conflict with international rules. I am also pleased with what the Council says about women in research, and that he wants to follow up on the work done there so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e361	There is no doubt that the Committee on Women in Research is doing a very good job, and the focus they have contributed towards the institutions has made the institutions stronger. The fact that we are so clear through etat management meetings and letters of allocation that we expect results related to gender equality work at the institutions makes it slow in the future. It is, just as the interpellant says, clear that we also lose a lot of talent by women not completing all the way up to the leading positions in research. Of course, it's a huge loss for both the individual and our society, because women have an enormously valuable knowledge that should, of course, be represented in all the research positions at our universities and colleges. In our department, we've been focusing on this for a long time. My predecessors have also focused on this. But, as I said, the measures we are taking will take time, because it takes time to get new women in senior positions in research and academia. We're careful on the right road, but not in close enough. That means that when we are presented this autumn with the Committee's proposals for new measures, I will examine them carefully. That means that, with this background, hopefully we'll get a new one to put this on the agenda. Of course, it's very valuable that corruption and government are actively involved in this work, because it means that the institutions see that there are people who are always impatient and want to push this further. It is also important for me as the Council of State to know that the Storting is involved in this, which means that when we meet the institutions, we can make strict demands that they achieve results in the field of equality. As I said, we're on. We have several measures, which I also presented in my first post, which means that I am careful – let me underline it – optimistic. But it is clear that the basis for optimism is that we succeed in following up this on an ongoing basis, and I think that work is well under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e374	The representative of the Kristoffersen shall have honey for his pleasure. I agree with most of the things that have been said. She pointed out, among other things: that there is no whip to be used, but that an actual creative proposal can achieve a different gender balance, not only within academia but generally in normal employment. I notice clearly that in the case of seminars, meetings, speakers, etc., women are largely discussing women's policies and gender balance. It should actually also be a wake-up call. It is rarely a sighted man, who for some reason is not required to do so, stand and have long speeches at a meeting or conference about this. It's been a wake-up call for me. I saw in the press that the Workers' Party, on behalf of several male workers' party politicians, sent out support for gender equality work. It would have been very nice to see a lonely male worker party politician who had dared to stand alone and have the same vision. Often, a person feels that group thinking gets a little bit strong. For me, equivalency is the right word and not equality – i.e., this with value. The Council of State indicated that it would take time for a person to grow in relation to the relevant persons who would be able to hold these posts and who could be in a position to be employed in the academy. I agree. But this with attitudes starts a long time ago. We in the Progress Party believe that it starts with a change in attitude to what is needed, a change in how one understands the composition between man and woman in a working situation. That's where it starts. One thing is professional criteria. I think everyone here in the hall agrees that it's easy to measure these. It is easy to see what you have selected. Professional criteria are as beaten as they are. But when it comes to showing judgement, being able to choose from judgment, we have a challenge, because it's not that easy to measure. The realization that we have to come up with is that one must have chosen right, that one actually has responsibility for the person who has to play a role is the right one: that the right person is in the right place, not that the right woman or the right man is in the right place, but that the right person is in the right place. Even I have worked 23 years in a human-dominated environment, and it is clear that on my own way, in my professional career, I have seen that a worker is very different. I would also think that at different levels of our society, the basis is the same if you're a woman or a man. We're not that different. But when it comes to how to work, and how to do things, we can't erase it and neutralize it. It is probably not the intention of the representative of Kristoffersen either. I could say a lot about this. We could probably start a real equality debate that would go on all levels of society, but that's not what we're going to do. This applies primarily to research positions, academic employment, etc. I think, as I said, we have to start with a change of attitude – that is what we have to work with. The Minister of Knowledge thought we had to discriminate in order to ensure gender balance. That's not the way we're going. We're going to get a change of mind to get the right person in the right place, and I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to do that. The conservative environment that exists in some places and that may have characterized some academic appointments in recent years, I think, is changing. We see that women are strongly represented in further education. We have seen it in other countries, and we also see it in Norway that they are getting clearer and clearer on the road, and they are welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e389	I can comfort the representative Schmidt that I am a man, and as far as I know, the Minister of Knowledge is also a man, so we're getting involved in the debate. Equality is, of course, an important issue. That's something that's easy to talk about, but that might be more difficult to put into practice. When it comes to academia, we talk a lot of history – this was also the Minister of Knowledge inside – traditions and gender roles, which it takes a very long time to turn around. Therefore, it is important to focus on the issue. In fact, the Bondevik Government initiated an action in this area, which was also referred to by the Minister of Knowledge, and it was the Women's Research Committee. It was precisely the purpose of helping institutions to focus on gender equality. Based on the examples of the Minister of Knowledge mentioned from the University of Oslo, it is clear that this has been achieved. It has been achieved that there is a strong focus on gender equality work in the academia and educational institutions. You've come a long way. So to women's shares. It's actually been a pretty positive development in the women's share, even though this has taken time. This is referred to as 40 pst. Here. There was a rise in 2001, I think it was – 41 pst. It was that time. We don't have to discuss percentages that much, but the issue is of course the biggest when one comes to professorates and top positions within the academy. I just want to stress that here, in fact, the Bondevik II government introduced measures that seem to have helped. It takes time to qualify people. Security was mentioned from the interpellant. I would like to point out that when we talk about temporary employees, it is more important to have jobs than just having security. It is strange to see that we have now been presented with a state budget that is completely without new scholarship positions. Making sure access to new jobs was one of the most important measures to actually recruit women into the academy. The goal is actually 1 100 doctoral students trained this year. We're way away from it. If we don't have positions to accept them, the problem gets even bigger. In this context, it is necessary to provide framework conditions that stimulate both the number of persons trained and the proportion of women. In this context, I did a small study at the Hedmark College, and they made the exact same points as the Minister of Knowledge had in mind: they have large vocational training courses, such as nurse and teacher training, and have worked strategically for several years to catch up with the employees they have today, and first get them through university qualification, and now for primary qualification. The results are very good both in terms of gender equality share and also in terms of NOCUT approval. The higher education institution in Hedmark is actually one of the best universities in relation to the same process of education they have. It shows that there is also a great deal to be achieved with a practical approach and long-term strategy work within institutions. There is no quick way to increase the proportion of women, especially within professors. This is the first thing about qualification, and we can't lower the quality requirements there. But it's important to focus on it in the future in order to improve the balance. There is a lot of good work going on. I look forward to the investigation that the Minister of Knowledge said was coming. I share the impatience of the inter-pellant after more progress, but at the same time I would also warn against taking far too far-reaching measures. I think it's a process that's slow, but certainly going its way, and we're going to achieve a much higher level of equality even within the top academy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e408	Finally, I would like to say that the fact that things are going so very slowly is good enough to use new and stronger tools in this area. The interpellant should have a favor to have the question raised, because it is clear that focusing on that question by itself will lead to a few further steps. But I just don't think I'm enough at all. SV shares the inter-pellant’s analysis that the gender imbalance in higher education and academia, and also in the ladder settings in general, is a democratic problem. There is a problem on the content of the research. When one has a gender balance as uneven as one has, it is clear that it says something about who has seen the agenda, and who has set the priorities. It is clear that it affects the content of the research. There is a problem with regard to recruiting higher education and researching what kind of role models exist in academia. I would say that there may also be a problem with regard to quality. Women make up half of the population, and it's clear that when structural traits prevent recruitment and prevent upliftment, we're missing out on some good talent. This is a democratic problem. It is important when it comes to problem settings that are easy to describe at macro level, where one needs to find tools that are individual law, i.e. at micro level, that a holding tongue in the mouth. I found the Council of State to be very balanced on the question of the need for national instruments and on the responsibilities of institutions in relation to structural and individual action. It is very important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth when discussing measures. In this area, as in all other areas, it is important to analyse and find reasons before deciding on the appropriate measures. In the gender research, this is something one has researched and searched for reasons for a long time: why are women so underrepresented in leadership settings? One often operates with different models depending on whether the solution is supply-based or demand-based, whether it is such that women are unwilling to have these positions, or whether it is such that institutions or society do not specifically demand women. One has different models, where one operates from simple explanations like that women don't want because they're women, to maybe as simple explanations as that women don't get permission because they're women. The truth is there's probably one place in the middle of it, and it's something that's important to find answers. Unlike the Progress Party, SV believes that this is part of the entire gender equality debate. Very often one will find explanations of why women are caregivers, and because women still take most of the housework, they will be much less able to offer themselves as leaders. The journal of Bergen had a straight leader yesterday that there is still a paradox that while girls and women go out of schools, colleges and universities with the best characters, they only slow down more and more in terms of wages compared to men. The average income for men is almost 80 pst. higher than for women. This is also part of this debate. Everything is related to everything, and we're forced to see this in a context. Governments outlined a long range of different tools. We have also noticed from the SV's side that this is a question that has a strong focus in the Government, but I would like to point out that the former Council of State, Kristin Klemet, should have praised her for having looked down on the Women's Research Committee. We look forward to the report that's coming, and in a way we're going to adapt to the room we have to manoeuvre in after we got no from ESA in relation to the allowances for these positions. Then we'll take the report seriously when he comes, and then we'll sit down and discuss the mechanism. This is not an area where we're going to sit with our hands trapped and think that the world is going its way, that it's going slowly, but surely forward. We're going to be offensive, and we're going to look for the good tools to make sure we get a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e429	I will first also be of those who thank the interpellant for taking up this theme, although it is also sad that this is a recurring theme in the Stortinget. I think it's important that we focus on and have the attention to the academics just in this area, because it's a good thing in itself that both sexes are represented at all levels of society. Women and men can have different approaches, each of which can be valuable in its own way. Similarly, it is also a good thing in itself that both sexes are represented in the different disciplines of the Academy. That's why I find it worrying that there are so few female professors and women in top positions. It's actually a paradox that we have this bias between women and men in the university and higher education sectors. The main reason for this is that the proportion of women is high. Figures from Women in research from March 2006 show that more women than men are taking higher education. In that case, the conditions would facilitate a high proportion of women higher up in the system. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The higher one comes into the system, the fewer women and the more men. Already at the scholarship level, there is a lower proportion of women, and at the professorate level, the proportion of women is down to 17 p.m. There's a clear need for us to go into these numbers. Let's see if there's anything wrong with the system. Are there mechanisms or structures that de facto exclude women from a career, or is there the second step we need to consider in order to make a university and college career more attractive to women? When the Equality Act was adopted in 1978, sexual harassment in working life, education and organisational life was not on the agenda. In the early 1990s, sexual harassment, among other things, became a major focus of attention. as a result of research on the subject. Today we know that it is also common both in sports environments, in schools and in universities. In the past, only the Work Environment Act was regulated sexual harassment. However, following the changes of the Bondevik II government, employers, organisations and educational institutions now have a responsibility to prevent and prevent sexual harassment. This will help to provide greater protection against what was and is a problem for women within the academy. One of the most important things to do is to get women to complete their research education. I wish we could look at the schemes of earmarked scientific positions for women again, that it was legally possible, but I am also positive after hearing the Council of State today say that one considers looking at other measures within the framework of which a law gives us. Figures show that scientific staff work an average of 48.5 hours per year. week. This means that leisure time is often used for research work, and many come into the well-known time frame. Such workload may hamper a scientific career for families with young children. Therefore, it is necessary to provide for practical and social arrangements relating to the rights of pregnant women, and also childcare facilities. There is broad political agreement on the importance of equality in higher education. And after hearing the representative of the Progress Party, I have to say that I have been one of those who has discussed with men from the Progress Party in this Chamber on equality before. I very much welcome more women as the representative of Schmidt in this area. There was an overall committee, except for the Progress Party, which said that it was with concern that there are still so few women in the academy, and especially in permanent scientific positions. The same report on quality reform also highlighted the differences between trade traditions, where women enter the humanities, while few women enter the technology disciplines. That's the way it is today. If we go back to 1961, actually humanities were the only discipline that had female professors. Despite the good will of most parties, we have not received the progress we want. Continuing the growth of the proportion of women among professors at the same level as in the last 20 years, social sciences, as the first subject area, will achieve equal numbers of both sexes only in 2035. There's good reason to be impatient. We need to get together on the good measures. Everything can just get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e448	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kristoffersen, who has put this theme on the agenda today. Actually, it should not be a topical issue, because here we stand at the end of 2006 and debate the lack of equality in the case of professors in Norway. But we just have to deal with the realities: four out of five professors are men, and that's how it's been for a long time. In the last twenty years, progress has been very slow. From 2000 until today we have only had an increase of 3 pst. In 2005, women made up 17 pst. by the professors in the university and higher education sectors. At universities and scientific colleges, the proportion of women was the same in 2005 as in 2003. The state colleges had a growth of 2 pst in the same period. In the field of humanities, the proportion of women was highest, with 28 p.m., while technology – I was saying fairly – had the lowest share of women, with 6 p.m. This is going to be a lot of numbers and a lot of repetition, but it's almost necessary for reality to really sink into us. As the interpellant pointed out, research is often about OECD objectives and money. However, this type of debate must also address many other aspects: diversity, quality and equality are issues that naturally belong to it. It cannot be right that research should roughly be left to half the population. We need research that represents public interest, for the best of 100 pst. by the whole population. It is not necessary to ask who and what is affected when there are so few female professors compared to men in the university and higher education world. The answer is obvious. It has implications for what it's being researched and how it's being researched. Of course, it also has a lot to say for newly recruited researchers. Not least, this is important for the social debate. In fact, here we are dealing with a democratic problem. Universities and higher education institutions shall participate in and present the premises for the societal debate. It goes without saying that the overweight of one sex is not good. These include: many who believe that this is the case in medicine. Human-related diseases can be documented through years of research, while typical female diseases do not receive sufficient attention. This can thus be seen as a major social problem, and in this case also a health problem. To put a number on this: in 2005 was 20 pst. by the professors of medicine women, including the health profession. But at the lecturer level, women were 79 pst. in universities and higher education institutions. This can be seen in different areas. Continues the growth of the proportion of women at the same pace as today, for example. State science, as the first subject area, achieves an equal number in 2035. For the technology professors it is expected about. 100 years later. We just can't accept this. We all want to call ourselves a competence nation. What are we going to do to get out of the trouble? I agree with those who say that attitude changes are important, but they probably need drag help. Many sets of instruments need to be used, and more are mentioned here today. Both the economy and gender rationing can be instruments. As you know, the Equality Act also allows for special treatment of the underrepresented sex, without this being particularly desirable. Today, there are also several weaknesses in today’s system. Keywords are both calls and too many temporary jobs. It's important that we become conscious of this. There are solutions when there is a willingness to do so. Fortunately, there is a great deal of cross-political consensus in this area. There's also reason to give tribute to Kristin Clemet, who took this up in his time. I have to say that these were good signals from the Minister of Knowledge today. He mentioned several equal opportunities promotions. It was also interesting to hear about the University of Oslo, which has an action plan for equality, and which wants to be the best at gender equality in academia. We need examples and good examples. You should be careful to use the words of authors in such articles. But I'm tempted to say with Inger Hagerup, "Be impatient, man!" I feel that it fits well in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e467	For approx. 20 years ago, an investigation was carried out entitled «Scenarios 2000». One of the conclusions of this investigation, made for the Norwegian government, was that some of the areas in which Norway could claim to be international were in the large proportion of well-trained women in the population. Then it was dry that we're not good enough to organize it. That is what is at the heart of today's debate as well. I'd like to point to the interpellant's words. It is precisely at the intersection of everyday life's organisation and the organisation of professional life that it often butters. For my part, I would like to say that believing that women have to be allocated to these positions must be totally insane. When you see women advance on a broad front in all forms of higher education, there are other things you have to listen to. You have to listen to the scholarship summit we had in ours, which just went on the practical terms. What happens if you're a baby's parent, a baby's mother, and for example. not having a good enough leave arrangement, not to cheat on the scholarship position, but because you don't capture these aspects of life? I would encourage the Council of States – which was in that debate, and I also had the pleasure of asking him questions about it – to look at that question in addition to what he himself raised. I think the Council of State had a good selection of measures. He showed a voice to the committee that Kristin Clement started, women in research, and how he would follow up their report. In my opinion, he pointed to important measures, which led to the emergence of the first lecturer and qualification programmes, for example. in professional training, where there are clearly too few shares. He also referred to the objectives of the University of Oslo, the great institution as it is, and the University of Bergen. I also think that the Council of State was in creative and tidy pursuit within the EEA and EU areas when he lighted up after the ‘sibling child of Kristin Clemet’, such as the Bondevik II government’s attempt to have recruitment positions, i.e. economic incentives. I just want to cheer on it. I'm sure that work will be done. My experience with EU rules is that there are always some people who find adaptations we have not discovered in Norway. To put some on this kind of silent investigation work, at least I strongly support it. So it's enough that I would just look at the issues that other representatives have been dealing with: where is there any difference between what we can call the organisation of everyday life, and the organisation of professional life? I believe that a systematic review of such measures will often find many small responses that, in some cases, will lead to important contributions to increase what was intended by the interpellant and also perceived as the intention of everyone else, namely to increase the recruitment of competent women. This is probably also the case in this area – without making this a budget debate – that if optimism is broken within the research world, optimism in higher education is broken, unforeseeable, and unforeseeable trends tend to freeze fixed structures. To put it another way: if there are tight budgets, you cut the budgets. If research progress is made uncertain, uncertainty will cause people to slow down, lose motivation, lose pace, lose initiative. In this way, it is also necessary in this debate for an opposition representative to say that if the government parties do not pay more attention to the commitment to higher education, if they do not pay more attention to having a real research escalation plan, they are simply cutting off recruitment positions, whether they are scholarships, postdoctoral positions or whatever it may be. The situation is that it is not possible to recruit what everyone has believed, namely that through the growth of well-qualified young people, we must recruit qualified people, both women and men – and in this debate many more women – into the positions. The flexibility of the system is simply lost, both economically and organisationally. That is why it is a crucial key – it is not enough, but it is a crucial key – that the research process be maintained, and then the debate on whether it is coming in time, with the kind of pressure it needs, and the pressure must be considerable. The cuts in the higher education sector must be an embarrassing moment of transition, which at least some of us should do our utmost to ensure that there is constant attention. And then, in addition to that, you have to have the excellent suggestions that the interpellant had, and that the Council of State had. I would like to stress again that you have to look at how, for example. The practical situation of the scholarship holders is here. I'm afraid that there are some small grips that can lead to positive results in what was the common purpose of the interpellant and the Council of State: recruiting more women. That is also my intention, and I agree to it. But that competent intelligent women – I myself am married to one of them – are to be allocated to these positions, I think is a strange thing in 2006, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e485	I didn't think it was a financial debate we were going to have here today. At least we're going to wait for something. I even come from an area in the country that is struggling, and one of the reasons why we in South Africa might be struggling in terms of some statistics is that we lack equality. I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the visibility and perspectives she draws from the fact that equality actually gives some important ring-effects in terms of quality. We see, at least in our part of the country, that it is important to focus on gender equality in terms of industrial development, regional development, etc. I would like to take the challenge from the representative of Schmidt. I don't feel at home being put in a booth with men from all the other parties here in the hall. I feel that the fronts in terms of equality go more between the parties than between the sexes in this hall. So I want to challenge the Progress Party back. I wonder if the Progress Party at all wants equality. There have been many recent opinions – only in the last months – that suggest the opposite: several representatives believe that gender equality in Norway has actually come far enough. But is it possible with equivalency, if you don't have equality? I thought I might also look at the Progress Party when you talk about attitude changes. It is a fact that the Progress Party is the party in this Chamber which clearly has few female representatives. So when it comes to attitude change – if perhaps it's the only way – it's at least clear that it's going to go very late. Another element of equality is inclusion. As I see it, the Progress Party is a continuous problem – not only in terms of equality law, but also in terms of, for example, gender equality law. policies towards minorities – a lack of an inclusion scheme, a lack of instruments. Everything shall be done through a change of attitude. But is it at all possible? And want an inclusion, want an equality? That's the question I'm coming back to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e500	The inter-pellant deserves thanks for addressing the issue, among others. because it gives the Minister of Knowledge a probably beloved opportunity to use some of its energy on this part of the Norwegian education system as well. If you want to discuss the lack of gender balance – because this is really the issue, more than gender equality, if you want to have a clean language – in higher education positions in this country, I think it is necessary to look at the whole of the Norwegian education system. Because there is now once again one continuous race of people going through from they're starting pre-school until they're taking a university degree. It will then be turned off that gender imbalance is almost systematic in the Norwegian education system, but with varying signs. In pre-school and elementary school, there is a dramatic gender imbalance, and there are men underrepresented. The only place in which there is some balance is in the middle of the education cycle: high school, although there are also wide variations between different types of education. This is important because the attitudes instilled in children and young people along the way, of course, have a lot to do with the symbols of adult society and the models that adult society sets for children and young people. But then to the top level, which is the interpellant's field of attention. For many years we have had a sharp skepticism at the entrance to universities and colleges in this country. In general, there have been 60 to 40 women’s favours, even where there are considerable variations between different types of education. But then there is a gradual shift towards human dominance as one crawls higher up, from the entrance to the university system and to a permanent position as a university teacher and professor. I think if we're going to be able to meet it, you shouldn't think that it can be solved through short-term coercive measures of different kinds. All experience with such trials is poor. I think you need to take more time to figure out what the causes are before you start taking the drugs. I'm pretty sure you'll find that there's something about women's and men's trajectory from they entering the university at the age of 19 and until they go out with a degree exam somewhere in the middle of the twenty-years that can explain some of this. I think, among other things, the way in which we organise financial support schemes for childbirth and the responsibility for young children can explain a great deal. We've seen over the last 15 to 20 years that the age of when women give birth has increased radically. It may have a lot of reasons, but the main reason is the systematic economic discrimination on the part of society that makes it very clear that before you get a job with a fixed salary, you should not think about putting children into the world at all. This means that most women who want to bring children to the world are pressured by society's arrangements to do so right in the critical phase of qualifying from the second highest to the highest stage of a career. Already there, I think a main explanation is why things don't work as well as they should. So I think you have to think more radically in the real meaning of the word, that you have to find out the roots of the bias that occurs at this level, and then society has to be willing to do something about it if you're serious about wanting a better gender balance. There's reason to hope that we're serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e515	I record that the representative de Ruiter is more concerned with his own rhetorical points than he is about the matter. I think that is worrying, but I appreciate, of course, that the Ruiters are concerned about what the Progress Party thinks, instead of explaining what he and his own party think about this. I think that de Ruiter is right that the Progress Party thinks about equality in a slightly different way than the Workers' Party and SV has expressed, among other things. in this debate. We believe that our job as politicians is to make things easier for everyone, regardless of gender, to choose for themselves what they want. I note that there are several representatives from the Red-Green Alliance who have opened up some kind of quota increase. Like the representative, Dørum, we believe that this is the wrong way to go. It does not help to improve the gender balance by, for example, reducing the requirements for professorates under a system of quotas. We were challenged by the representative de Ruiter if we want equality. We want equivalency. We want equal opportunities. We have written it in quite a large number of settings in this Chamber, and we have said it in quite a number of debates in this Chamber. It's like within the academy that it takes some time to implement changes. You can't pinch your fingers and think you'll get a 50-50 pst. distribution by professors. It takes time to implement education and it takes time to build skills. Therefore, these debates are a little special, because the instruments available to us as politicians are really quite few. I believe that both the representatives of the pay and the doorroom in quite broad order stated exactly that, precisely the role of the politicians: to facilitate the individual himself to make the choices that fall for them naturally. That we in this room should discuss how we should – almost to say – instruct women to choose differently, I think is strange. It is that within the medical school, which is a traditional human-dominated study, there is now a clear majority of female students. It shows that this development is on its way, completely independent of the arrangements we are talking about today in the direction of quotaing. I hope we can skip the quota debate, and rather focus on the instruments that are of a positive nature for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e526	I would like to thank everyone for the debate. It has been particularly useful in drawing attention to a most topical issue. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, said that the problem is a repetition in Stortinget. Yes, it is, but it has not led to a significant change in the gender equality in the academy. That is why I think offensive measures must be followed up when we debate in the Storting. To the representative of Dørum, I would like to say that I would like the equality law to be applied, but within the framework of the international laws, we have opportunities. Of course, the debate shows the difference between the political parties. The party of progress is too patient, in my view. If we're going to wait for the general attitude to change, I think we're going to have to wait a lot of years before we see any kind of change. In a report it was outlined that within the technical subject we would have to wait 100 years after 2035 – I think I have read something like that. Then I think we're too patient on behalf of equality. Then I have much more sense of the representative's proposal to investigate the reasons for the gender imbalance. I was so much involved in my interpellation, too, where I missed work life research at our higher education institutions. I look forward to the measures outlined by the Minister of Knowledge. Likewise, I look forward to the processes started at the universities of Bergen and Oslo, and their results. I think what's happening at the major universities is pretty important considering what's going on in the other sector. For my part, I will actively follow up on what is happening in the higher education sector in the future in this area. It would have been good if Stortinget in the next period escaped a new interpellation on equality in the academy. I'm not so sure. But when the minister of knowledge is cautiously optimistic, I too choose to be. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e545	Like many others in this room, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. Let me also thank you for what has been a good debate, for you have to be impatient in this field. The small steps that have gone forward have taken action and not attitudes. While it is clear that the position itself is important for action, it is the measures that ultimately lead to women taking some steps forward, after all. I think it's interesting to see more people coming forward with the practical organization of everyday life. The representative Dørum and others were involved in this. It is also an important part in itself to stimulate women to take the highest academic positions. That means that kindergarten policy cannot be released from the discussion we have here today. It's also an interesting perspective in that way, without me including it in my post. From the department we will now follow up on this. We will then receive this report from Women in Research later this fall. I'm going to attend the hearing myself at the University of Oslo. The University of Oslo has, for example, gone ahead with a very ambitious programme to become a ‘sex-balanced university’, as they call it, in 2011, I think it was. That in itself is a very ambitious goal. I wish them luck. We have to deal with this together with the university. In our office management meetings, when we meet the institutions, it is clear that we need to underline the independent responsibility of the institutions to contribute to gender equality development. Being aware of this is, of course, the institution's responsibility as well. I think this debate has brought us some further. We have a lot of things going on both at institution level and at department level. When women in research come forward with their report, we have already allocated funds to follow-up action. And with the impatience of the Storting, there's hope that we can make it any further. So again, I thank you for the debate – and the interpellant for addressing an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10.ana.ud300e556	The debate on case No. So 2 is over.
