ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e22	From the representative of Eirin Faldet, there is an application for welfare leave from 8 March to 15 March. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and be accepted. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e47	On Monday the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Trond Giske The government councils announced are in place, and we're ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to those who have been notified in advance, would like to ask the main questions are asked to stand up. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e68	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport and Communications a question. But I will first be allowed to welcome the Minister to Stortinget. We've missed the councils. Section 12 of the Road Act is not to be misunderstood, if you do not have another agenda, an agenda to remove the obligations laid down in Section 12 of the Road Act. The paragraph is clear and says that the state is responsible for building infrastructure, i.e. roads. The state, the municipality and the county must finance it. During the period 2006-2009, the country’s share in road construction will be reduced to 50 pst. 50 pst. are likely to be financed through the drivers and tolls. This is in addition to the fact that the drivers fill up the treasury with over 50 billion dollars a year in the form of a series of charges to a state that is already bursting with billions of books and actually investing in infrastructure in other countries. The number of toll stations is likely to double from today's 40 to over 80 over a few years. Local communities, regions and businesses have undoubtedly given up the fight against the State's blackmail policy. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Government intend to amend Section 12 of the Road Code, or does this paragraph have any value for the Central Party and the Government at all? Can it be expected at all that this government will take the responsibility set out in Section 12, or is it simply so that those who expect modern and safe vegetarians have two choices – to wait 30 years or to accept tolls with minimal State co-financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e79	Like the representative Sandberg, the Council of State, the Minister for Transport, is busy getting us to step up road development in this country. In principle, it is quite right that all investment in the national road network is a state responsibility, but fiscal considerations set limits on funding from the state budget. The use of tolls is thus an additional form of funding, which is locally initiated and locally annexed, and which is launched through local and regional bodies for decisions in government and corruption. It goes without saying that such a form of funding would present projects which would otherwise have been delayed in time. It is also the case that alternate governments, including where the Progress Party has had a decisive impact on the State budget, have had the potential to grant applications for toll financing in order to speed up the development of the road network in our country. When the representative asks if we intend to change § 12 of the Road Law, the answer is that we do not have intentions about it. The Road Law, both the other paragraphs and Section 12, have its value. Toll financing is a possible additional funding, initiated and agreed locally and regionally, which, as I said, results in a faster deployment. I note that the representative Sandberg in Addressavias states that tolls are the only solution, and that he there, although he says that the Progress Party will vote against in Stortinget, calls on the Regional Council to promote toll applications in order to ensure that it also mediates its pot, so that not everything should go to the West, as it is said by the representative Sandberg, according to Addressavias.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e92	The Council of State would like to quote the Address Paper, but it is also clear why Sandberg is saying it to the Fosen Regional Council, that the Council of State and this government are pushing the regions and communities to apply for tolls. Otherwise it will not be appropriate to get any funds to build a road. That's my starting point. It's interesting to hear that the Council of State says that tolls should be additional. By 2009 tolls are likely to exceed 50 pst. of the investments in the Norwegian language. Then it is no longer additional, then it is the main funding. I also register that the State Council and the Senterpartiet have committed themselves to the Ministry of Finance in relation to the pressure in the Norwegian economy. The truth is that today’s infrastructure in Norway itself provides pressure in the Norwegian economy through inhibition of accessibility, long distances, typography, waiting time, wear on machinery, reduced road capital, environmental damage, accidents, high charges and housing patterns. This is what gives pressure in the Norwegian economy. An investment to create a modern infrastructure would have dampened the pressure in the Norwegian economy. Does the Council agree with such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e101	The Government has plans to increase its commitment to trade in line with the National Transport Plan action programme. I fully agree with Mr Sandberg that there is a need for greater investment in transport. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has stated that there is an important commitment to business, and not least to business and value creation throughout this country. The government will come back to the way in which it is to be carried out in different budgetary processes — and not in spontaneous Question Time. When it comes to the question of whether tolls are supplementary or not, we might have to say that they are. Sandberg and the Progress Party have also, in that case, submitted to the Ministry of Finance's different leases, because in three budgets, the Progress Party had the possibility to influence its framework. This government has increased the trade budget in three more weeks than the Progress Party did in three years. It's also a truth that stands firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e110	The President will allow five follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e113	The richer Norway becomes, the worse Norwegian roads become. We have a huge aftermath on the construction of a decent road network, and we have a worrying lack of road maintenance. The aftermath on the highways is 12 billion kroner and on the highways 11 billion kroner. The richer Norway, the more part of the road development takes place with tolls. Can citizens now also risk tolling tolls to pay for lack of road maintenance? Does the Council of State believe that Norway has such poor advice that the State cannot cover the delays in maintenance on our roads? And how long will road users wait before road maintenance is in place in one of the richest countries in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e120	The principle of toll financing has, at least to this day, been such that initial investment and new facilities where one local sees that, by financing parts of the toll project, a faster expansion occurs, which affects both the local population and the business community. This council has no intention of letting us go free of maintenance projects via tolls. But, of course, there is a moving transition between what is maintenance and what is initial investment, because it has been through changing governments over a long period of time a supply of the maintenance budget that makes a part that could have our maintenance become initial investment. I'm sorry about that. But, as I said, it's a development that we now have to deal with. In future, we also need to give greater priority to maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e128	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e131	We have an offensive Minister of Transport, and I think the Council of State should be commended for that. It is positive that there is now a promise of increased investment on the way. The Christian People's Party will continue to have increased investment on roads, both for investment, operation and maintenance. There are many challenges in the transport sector, and not just on the road. Some of them point to SV's social policy spokesman, Hallgeir H. Langeland, in the Evening Post today. And in the Soria Moria statement we can read to the eye getting big and wet about heavy bets on the road, on the railway, new freight balancing system, environmental measures, free ferries, lower aviation prices, youth cards, etc. The government already has a lag of SEK 1.6 billion in relation to the NTP. So far, the Council of State has largely blamed the previous government for most of the things she hasn't done so far. When will this government begin to stand on its own, take responsibility for its own priorities? And what is the priority list?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e140	This government stands steady and well on its own. But if we're going to have an understanding of the notida, we also have to have an image of the past in this context, because it's not like we're starting October 17th with blank papers and pencils. I took over a department where there were leaders who, of course, also influenced my work – at least for a while – into a new period. The government has offensive points both in relation to the environment and in relation to increased bets on different parts of the trade. When it comes to priorities, they are reflected in the annual budgets. I also have the intention to follow up the action program in NTP as Stortinget has agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e149	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e152	The debate on tolls goes very much around the country. But after today's look-up in the Evening Post with SV's social policy spokesman, Hallgeir H. Langeland, I think that debate will be a flurry. The motorcyclist Hallgeir H. Langeland's greeting to the drivers today is that he wants a rush-time charge. It will cost twice as much to pass the bombardment when you go to work in the morning. People can manage without a car in town, says Langeland. Tell a family with three children! Two are going to the kindergarten, one at school, and mother and father work on each side of the city. The right is against the rush rate and will fight it. We would rather have a conversion of the car tax system in order to protect the environment. Does the Minister for Transport support Mr SV and Mr H. Langeland's proposals, where he will introduce a rush-time charge to suffocate traffic in the city?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e161	Firstly, we have to state that if we are to solve the challenges of increasing urban traffic and of entering cities, we are forced to invest more in collective transport. In Stockholm, they have an attempt to pay a high-cost allowance. In front of that attempt, one in Stockholm had a great escalation when it came to the collective level. It turned out to be a bit of an effect, but not a lot. But when they introduced the rush rate, the traffic went down by 25 pst. I was in Stockholm a couple of weeks ago and had a meeting with my colleague. ==References== %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 4 o'clock in the afternoon, in the middle of a rush, we were out at the main toll station. There was no rush! Traffic went quite fluent and okay. I was there a few years ago and experienced the rush, so I now saw that this works. It is the local authorities who have to decide if they want to ensure better appearance, better environment and less queues by introducing a rush-time charge. I would like to receive such recordings from local city councils with interest if they come!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e170	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e173	Population growth and population density in Oslo and Akershus mean that there is considerable pressure on road networks and public transport. Now a broad local effort is being made to address these challenges, the so-called Oslopackak 3. I know that the Minister of Transport is familiar with this work. Can the Council of State promise to follow up on such local will to find solutions, and that heavy efforts will now be made on local traffic and environmental tunnels in Oslo and Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e180	I see with great interest the work that a cross-political is about to end in relation to Oslopackak 3. That package has not yet arrived at my table, but I am also very pleased that the signals coming so far indicate that one will continue the system of tolls in the Oslo area, and that they will use a large part of these funds to build public transport infrastructure. It's completely in line with what this government wants of politics, and in that way I want to do everything I can to make sure that the project is dropped through and presented to the Stortinget. As I said, I haven't yet got it on my table, so I have to wait for the content, but the signal so far is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e187	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e190	First, I would like to refer to the response of the Council of State to the representative of Sandberg. First of all, the Progress Party did not directly influence the previous government, but we managed to make a good deal. We were able to provide money without doing such a thing as this government, which has taken all the funding of the so-called investment on the road using increased charges on tractors, veteran cars and light trucks, which have financed the whole increase. In recent years, we have also experienced a massive flowering of toll stations, which are spreading up like toad hats all around our country. So far we have dealt with four new road projects for approx. 9 billion kroner. Of these, 5.6 billion are user-funded or so-called toll financing – over 60 pst. This is a development that affects districts and businesses in the districts particularly hard and that results in these much worse competitive conditions in terms of increased transport costs. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is there a limit to how much this government will charge for additional taxes from the drivers, in addition to the already skyrocketing taxes and taxes already paid to the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e202	As I said to the representative Sandberg, the question of tolls is a locally initiated question, where discussions have to be taken primarily locally. There is a locality that knows the situation, it is local that has the dialogue with the business community, and there is a locality that has to consider with the county council, which is also going to deal with these issues, whether there is room for more bomb projects in the different areas. So we're not going to take responsibility for even making such an assessment. It is clear that in some areas of the country there is a great willingness for toll financing. I can refer to Rogaland and Hordaland, which account for the most, in fact, of toll collection in the next period of NTP. But first of all, I think that one has to discuss this locally, so we get to take our share of it. As we saw in the context of Hardangerbrua, people who were dressed and happy in the gallery clearly show that the will to realise a transport project, even if it is toll-financed, is very great.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e209	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e212	Daily, there are reports of labour shortages, and this is an ever-increasing problem for many enterprises in different industries. The unemployment rate is at full speed downwards, and it shows that the government also came to the covered table in this area. This raises the issue of whether the Government at all has a strategy to meet this labour demand, both in the private and public sectors. On the contrary, we see that the Government in the area by region contributes to limiting and hampering access to new labour. Let me take a concrete example, a fresh example taken from the pages of the magazine LO Current. SYSLAB in Asker is a success company, which has been helping Aetat to get long-term high-skilled unemployed into work for several years. All 80 pst. of the participants have succeeded in getting a job. Now this successful enterprise has to be cut down because almost all the courses and labour market measures that have been put out to tender to private operators are stopped until the new labour and welfare seat is in place. Governments have been concerned that social clients need to get up in the morning, and that's all right. But why in the world does the Council of States allow the measures they had to reach to be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e221	I assume there was a question for me. This government has set up a policy that means that we have more areas of action than the previous government, so, as you can see, there are now more areas of action needed than under the previous government. The starting point for the questioner seems a little strange, because we are now contributing more to the fight against unemployment than the previous government did. We intend to pursue a very active labour market policy. It's a very interesting perspective that is the starting point for the questioner's question: the fact that today we see that there is a very high demand for labour, and that we see that we have a lot of vacancies, but still have unemployed people. It also shows how important it is to pursue active labour market policies, and that we are able to link the available hands with the available jobs. It is also the starting point for an important work that the previous government started through the creation of new labour and welfare management, and for what we are now going to do in terms of putting NAV in place, and the whole of the work we are now doing to create new content in labour and welfare policy. In relation to the big challenge that the questioner is drawing, i.e. accessing labour, my and the government's perspective will be that we also have to deal with the fact that a very large proportion of those who are in working age today are not at work. Many of them shouldn't be, but many more could have been. As a result, we will also be able to access very large numbers of labour in an increasingly demanding market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e234	If active labour market policy aspirations of the Council of State are to become something other than a heading without content, there is reason to repeat the question. I referred to a concrete example that the Council of State unfortunately was not close to responding to, that is why it is now stopping buying services from successful labour market enterprises that have managed to get 80 pst. of long-term unemployed with high levels of education back to work. They must now close the doors until you have the new floor in place. Is it not the intention of the new NAV reform to destroy the good measures before the start of the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e239	The concept of active labour market policy is, of course, a concept that contains many elements. The main instrument we have in the Government to pursue an active labour market policy is to ensure that we have sufficient resources to implement measures every year, so that we can actually meet the unemployed with measures. What is a fact is that this government meets more unemployed people with measures than the previous government, because we have about. 2 000 more sites of action now than before. If it's just an affront to an active labour market policy, at least it's a description I disagree with. I believe that the number of action sites is the most important. With regard to the division of labour between the Department, the Aetat and the Directorate of Labour, it is not the department that sits and determines exactly how labour market resources are to be used, but it is our responsibility to have sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e248	There will be four follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e251	If it is to be understood that unemployed people need both help and motivation to return to work, it is very strange to stop Aetat's ability to buy services from private operators, as the main questioner here points to. Is it so to understand that in the future it is only the public that should have the opportunity to help people back to work? And is it so to understand that the Council of State believes that it is more important who helps, than that as much help as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e258	No, my starting point is not that a rule is to be implemented that only labour market measures can be purchased from public service providers, but that we should have a good effect on the means at our disposal, and that we should also be able to buy action sites and services in a market that can provide them in a good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e263	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e266	What I am basically asking for is an answer to the question from the representative Engeset. This is a concrete enterprise, on which the Council of State has also received a written request from those concerned, and so the question is: is there a general policy in place to ensure that all private operators in this area do not have their contracts renewed until the new organisation is in place? If that is the case, it may mean that very many, when the most successful actors in this area are put down, can lose out on very good and active measures. I would ask the Council of State to respond to whether he will intervene and ensure that these companies will pass, so that they do not disappear as a result of a reorganisation that would actually lead to people getting a new chance and not losing the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e274	When it comes to my reply to the representative, Martin Engeset, I would first like to say that I think he received a well-deserved answer. To the representative, Höie, I must say that I do not know the company in question. I can't remember working with the particular company. But it is no problem for me to tell the representative, Höie, that I will of course go into it and look at the very concrete thing that he is asking about. So if we can meet later this week, the representative is going to get a full answer to this very special case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e281	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e284	The merger of Aetat, Social Security and Social Security Offices is one of the most important welfare reforms in the postwar period. The aim is to increase employment and reduce social security, to widen the way into the labour market and to narrow the roadside. It is a major, comprehensive reform, and it is important that it has a high level of political attention and close follow-up, and that the needs of the user are dominated. It is good that the Government, through proposals for the Storting, provides sufficient resources for implementation, but it is not necessary for programmes and offers to help individuals return to work, and which have shown that they have a good effect, as the representative Engeset pointed out, to stop because of the reform work. How will the Council of State ensure that the user's needs are best met in the critical implementation phase we are now in?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e293	It's an important question that the representative Woie Duesund raises. I've been trying to make sure that it's made very clear in the letters of assignment both to Aetat and to the Rikstrøgdeverket that the big challenge they're facing now is to spend enough time and effort preparing what's going to happen on 1 July, and since we've decided on such a merger, make sure that it doesn't go beyond the users. I have also been very careful in the meetings I have had, not only with the two floors, but also with NAV Interim, stressing that we now have a two-part challenge. We are going to do a good job of bundling, and at the same time we are going to make sure that users who visit either their local social security office or their local labour market office until 1 July do not experience reduced service. That's why I'm only responding positively to critical questions about whether you're doing it, because it gives me the opportunity to check whether the agencies are doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e298	The representative Martin Engeset pointed out that there is uncertainty about the NAV reform. While reforming, the original work of Aetat must not be forgotten, namely to employ people. The NAV reform is the main project to be implemented by the State Council. All that can help create uncertainty about the NAV reform must help to stop. The government’s major seminar project, regionalisation in Norway, is beginning to become a danger with the latest versions of the theme, where county municipalities themselves will be allowed to decide whether or not to merge. At best, this will be a newly showered county municipality, which does not deserve to be involved in creating uncertainty about the NAV reform. Does the Council agree that the NAV reform is too important to spread uncertainty about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e305	I agree with you, but I cannot see that there is at all any uncertainty about the NAV reform either. We work very purposefully and targetedly according to the plan that has been laid down. It is that NAV will be established on 1 July this year. We're doing that now, as opposed to the previous government, we're able to finance what we're going to do this year. We've now made a proposition where we're more than doubling the appropriations this year, because that's what's necessary. NAV Interim works according to a very strong and clear schedule. They're able to keep the goals they've set themselves in that way. So 1 July NAV will be established nationally. We will also set up a local NAV office in all the counties of the country during the year. Then the reform will move forward in the years 2007, 2008 and 2009, as foreseen. There should be no reason to doubt the progress in NAV.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e312	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e315	More than 30000 persons receive temporary unpaid pay. The majority of these are women. It's worth noting on the woman's day. The objective of temporary unpaid pay is to ensure that as many as possible of the recipients of the benefit are returned to work through follow-up during the period of benefit. This objective is achieved through measures and activities that increase the likelihood of individual return to work. In this context, a certain link with the labour market is essential. We know that a long time off makes it considerably more difficult to get back to work. Therefore, it is very alarming when Aetat says that only 470 out of well 30,000 recipients of temporary unpaid pay per person. are currently taking labour market measures. This shows that only a few are followed up in line with Storting’s intention when the system of temporary disability was introduced. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion has recently amended the so-called ‘regulation’. Those who have been granted temporary disability benefits are no longer offered employment training in enterprises that offer permanent work. For many of those receiving temporary disability benefits, a job in a labour market enterprise is the only way to stay active. The consequence of the amendment is therefore that more people, most women, are referred to inaction and isolation during the period in which they receive temporary disability pension. The result is a loss of quality of life for many. I would like to ask the Council of State to what extent he believes that the beneficiaries of a temporary disability pension are currently being followed up in a way that ensures the objective of preventing exclusion from the labour market. I would also like to know if the Council of State will do something quickly so that those receiving temporary disability pension will have the opportunity to take action through participation in labour market enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e326	Let me answer the last first: it is true that the regulation was implemented on 1 January of this year, but it was adopted under the previous government. So it is not a regulation that this Council of States has taken the initiative, sent it to the hearing and adopted, but I have implemented it. So to the extent that there is something wrong with the regulation, and that might be the case, at least there is a responsibility I share with a party that the representative Woie Duesund knows very well. It is important for me to stress that I believe that what the representative is dealing with is a very important issue. It affects a lot of what Martin Engeset also had to say, how we're going to be better off getting those who are on different schemes to work. There may be time-limited and labour-oriented schemes, as well as day-to-day payments, rehabilitation payments, return payments, time-limited disability benefits and more. This whole issue is the basis for me taking the initiative to make a big message this year that we call work, well-being and inclusion. There, we will review all the mechanisms aimed at not having such a strong focus on the schemes, but turning resources into instruments. I believe that today we have a system where we spend a lot of time and forces the user to adapt to some system – we are system-focused – instead of focusing on the user’s need for tools to get into work. I think that will be a very exciting political project, which I also look forward to having a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party on. So we will be making that big announcement in October this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e333	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The way back to work goes through enterprises, through employers who want to bet on individual jobseekers. If the objective of preventing temporary unemployment is to be excluded from the labour market, it is important that you have contact with your previous employer. Per. However, today, after the one-year disease notification period, the labour force has been cut off and the public assumes responsibility for follow-up. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, there is a lot of talk that employers should have a greater share of responsibility for this group. How does the Council of State assess the possibility of imposing greater responsibilities on employers both in order to prevent exclusion and in order to follow up persons who, for health reasons, have to leave the labour market for a shorter or longer period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e342	I think that's an interesting input. Very early in this type of race, most people start on sick leave, with the exception of unemployment. One of our challenges now is that it's just -- I'm making sure I use exactly the right numbers, but I think it's -- 17 pst. of those who have been sick for one year, who come back to work. It tells us that we are facing a formidable challenge in relation to getting at a much earlier stage of work related to either rehabilitation, rehabilitation or some form of organisation to prevent exclusion. We've done a good deal about the IA agreement, and it's done a lot good there, but I think we need to be even more good at getting started early in the course, as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e348	There will be four follow-up questions – first Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e351	It is a very important question that the representative Woie Duesund raises. There are a number of examples that show that the permanent work scheme can actually help people get back to work. In Stavanger Aftenblad, for example, on February 7. Read about 60-year-old Åsmund Trydal, who after 7 years of disability has got a regular job, after taking part in a so-called VTA measure. He said himself that this gave him back his confidence. It was a clear intention on the part of Stortinget that recipients of temporary unpaid pay should be closely followed up for return to work, and that this should not be a scheme that would evolve to become a kind of waiting station for permanent and final disability benefit. That is why it is encouraging when we now get a race of desperate enquiries from labour market businesses that sees themselves having to cancel people who are already participating in a VTA initiative. [[The President Clubs Again]] Will the Council of State look with new eyes at the regulation that has been introduced and see if it may have had unintended consequences? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e366	The President must ask that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e369	The answer to that is yes. I intend to look at it, but I intend to look at it in the context of the big message we are making. And it's not a very long-term race. As I said, we will come to the Storting and to the Labour and Social Committee with it immediately after the Storing has been gathered again for the harvest. As I said in my previous post, this is a regulation adopted by the previous government, and we are now living with the consequences of. But there should be no basis for leading any rhetoric on it. I take with me the recordings that come with regard to that regulation, and I have an overall review of the system and the instruments in the work and welfare management now. It is a very large, exciting political project, the content of NAV, and in this context the content of that regulation must be clearly assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e376	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e379	The council can hardly be satisfied with just 1.5 pst. by those who are on a temporary zero-duty basis, are followed up in line with the intent of the Storting. This can largely lead to the loss of the necessary quality of life and the return to a meaningful everyday life of work. In its alternative government budget, the Progress Party proposed increased appropriations for special labour market measures. Can we expect the Councils of State in the revised national budget to follow up with more resources, among other things? special labour market measures, so that more people can feel confident that they will be able to follow up, and not least that they will be able to get back into a working situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e386	I first want to say that of course I'm not satisfied with that. That's why we're doing a lot of things that I've been talking about in different answers, including: to implement NAV, in order to achieve a better organisation. But we're not gonna stop it. We also review the entire content of NAV, the whole device of the tool, the whole system to see how we will get more people working and less on social benefits. I think that when the big message is presented, there will be a big political debate both in the Biggest and in society. With regard to the issue of why there are no more people on temporary unpaid pay who are currently on active measures, I have not received any feedback that is due to the lack of action. The challenge lies in motivating and tailoring measures in such a good way that we manage to trigger the activity of the person who is on temporary unpaid pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e393	I think the challenge of getting the untrained back to work, whether they're on temporary disability or on more long-term disability, is so great that we should admit to each other that there's no one here who's had the phase response. Some measures have been implemented, and it must be a central objective to ensure that those measures actually work. I want to ask the Council of State – and now I expect that he will not, as both the Minister of Transport and himself here earlier today, shoot under previous governments, but take responsibility: What will the Council of State do to achieve better results in the return of the disabled to work? Targeted work has been done for many years, but the results are relatively weak. Is the Council of State planning in the context of the forecast he intends to provide in a short time, new grips in this context? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e402	Let me first say that I agree that there is no one who has a past that suggests that you can beat yourself so much on the chest. And: Yes, we are clearly planning new actions related to disability in that message, and there we are inspired by a project that the Højbråten knows well, namely to use the disability benefit as a wage subsidy. But what we see in the preliminary evaluation of that project is that we have not received any particular result from it. ECON has evaluated the scheme. The project is aimed at the long-term unemployed, and the report from the employers, as I have read, is that the problem is that disability benefits are provided only as a wage subsidy over a period of time. This means that the employer refuses to do so. I believe that there is every reason to consider whether the disability benefit can be used in some contexts as a permanent wage subsidy. [[President clubs]] That's an example of what we're now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e407	Norway needs labour. However, many who are unable to work full-time can make significant efforts in e.g.: part-time jobs and with adapted tasks. For most of us, a link to the world of work will be right. The left considers that temporary unpaid pay is a measure that facilitates the combination of work and social security, and believes that it would be directly unsocial that the Government does not put any more pressure on this, so that that group will be helped to get into working life. Time-limited zero emptying is such a flexible solution. Can the Council of State see that the flexibility of the welfare system has decreased?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e414	I'm not sure if I fully understood the question, but what I think is the main weakness of the system as it works today, it is – and it shows, I think, this debate too, because what we are discussing are, of course, schemes, income insurance schemes, that's what we're talking about all the time – that everyone has to adapt to some sort of system. The whole debate is on whether the scheme is good or not, and on how the scheme should possibly be defined, while I believe that we should have a much more general scheme and rather had a focus on what kind of new instruments we need to get up to get those who live on some scheme, to work. It is the debate that will come through the big message that will give Skjelstad the opportunity to debate in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e420	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e423	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture a question. We are at a time when cultural policy is being challenged. In recent months, cultural policy has changed. The relationship between minority culture and majority culture has been challenged. The cultural policy arena has also become much more important in developing meeting places between cultures. Cultural competence and education are important for the emerging generations, and having knowledge of each other will also be important to prevent future conflicts. Religious societies are set up against each other, and it is important to pursue a religious policy that promotes dialogue and mutual knowledge. For the first time in a long time, we experience that freedom of expression in our country is really being pressured. In all these debates, the Minister of Culture has been absent. Is it, then, that at a time when cultures are set up against each other, cultural policy is not important? At a time when religions are set up against each other, is not religious policy and dialogue important? At a time when freedom of expression and media policy are being challenged, is it not important for a media minister to be on the road? My question to the Council of State is: why are these debates not so important that they actually require political treatment and participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e434	In fact, in my view, there is probably no debate that is more important today than the debate on the transition from a very homogeneous Norway to a functioning multicultural society. Here we have to admit, perhaps more governments, that we have not done our job well enough, and that we have to start the laborious work of building the systems, the measures and the arrangements that can help different cultures and different religions to function well side by side. We've been through some pretty tough months, where the Norwegian flag has been burned, where embassies and consulates have been attacked, and where tens of thousands of people have been demonstrating against Norway. There has been a serious foreign policy situation, and there has been a strong international coordination needed to deal with it. Our foreign minister did so in an excellent way. I think many people can conclude that we might have come out better of that round than other countries that were in the same situation, where maybe you chose a more confrontational line, among other things. on the question of freedom of expression. Now the most acute situations start to calm down a little bit, and then the time also starts to come to take a more thorough debate. I fully agree with the questioner that one of the things needed is meeting places. The cultural area can contribute to the type of meeting places where different minorities can present their artistic expressions, their traditions and values.The majority may also have a policy based on minority representatives being able to enter the national art and cultural institutions. We're in the process of doing that. One of the things we did after we took over the government power was to add significantly to the support for schemes like "The Great World!", "Horizont Mela" and the multilingual library in Deichmanska, just to support under the minority cultural policies and their cultural expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e443	The reason why we did this better than you, for example. in other countries where the conflict was equally large, it is primarily that we have had cultural interpreters in the Norwegian public debate on the different cultures, and that we have invested in civil society over time, which means that we have spokespersons in these better debates. One of the proposals to strengthen civil society dialogue between Muslim countries and Norway is a Document No. Eight proposals that Anne Margrethe Larsen and I have submitted. I have assumed that the Government will also support that kind of initiative. The left will come up with more initiatives, but will there be any initiative from the Council of State to increase this dialogue beyond a few fifty-thousands here or a few hundredths there, as it was in the previous budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e450	I don't think that, for example. The festival Mela, which, during the reign of the Left, was about to go bankrupt and be closed, sees it as «some fifty thousand» that they actually got 500,000 more and can thus create the large multicultural festival, which is in the representative of Skei Grande's municipality of residence. We're already in full swing. We have increased support for many of the multicultural actions. But we also work with the national institutions. Last week I had a meeting with the Reichsteatret to see how they could use their travel activities to present the multicultural. Another very important thing we've done is to increase the local economy considerably. There are many of the measures, especially in relation to children and young people in the cultural field, where young people with different religious and cultural backgrounds can meet in a community around cultural activities and thereby build the community that a multiculturally well-functioning society actually needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e457	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e460	Freedom of expression is one of the most central values in our Western democracies. The Progress Party believes that the Government has been far too defensive in its defence of this central value in the debate we have had. The Minister for Culture and the Media should have taken a break from festival visits, from premieres and from celebrities and from OL visits and engaged in this debate. Norwegian cultural values are under the pressure of fundamentalist Islam, which preach oppression, coercion and violence. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do, and how will he use his position in the future to combat the attitudes of fundamentalist Islam? I'm recording that the Council of State says he won't confront. Many intellectuals say that a settlement must now be made with totalitarian Islam, among other things. authors like Salman Rushdie.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e469	After four years in the cultural committee together with Ulf Erik Knudsen, I am not unaware that he is also not inexperienced with festivals and celebrations, but now let it lie. One of the questions raised in the wake of the discussion about the Muhammad drawings is whether we have less freedom of expression in Norway. I strongly disagree with that. We have a strong freedom of expression in Norway. In fact, we are one of the highest-ranking countries in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of the press. But it is not forbidden to use that freedom of expression with reason. I am a strong believer in reform within the fundamentalist directions of every religion. I think you have to combine religion with a functioning secular society. But how do we achieve that? Do we achieve this by confrontation, as the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen calls for, or do we achieve it by dialogue and by allowing the reforms to come from within? I really believe in the last one. We've been through the same process ourselves in our own majority religion, but we did that job ourselves, not in confrontation with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e478	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e481	The Council of State has been in a good position in the fields of cultural policy. But I think that an important aspect of the dialogue must also be about the religious perspective. It kind of becomes a Western premise just to build on cultural arenas. We know that those we want a dialogue with, significantly based their argumentation and thinking on a religious perspective. I believe that much of the explanation that we have done so well – for we must say that we have in an international context – is precisely that we have had good projects in, for example. The Contact Group of the Inter-Church Council and the Islamic Council and the Oslokolation. The Council of Churches is not just the Council of Churches, as I see it. He's probably also the closest to thinking further about religion in a multi-religious society. Will the Council of State take the initiative, or have he taken the initiative, to strengthen the religious dialogue in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e488	In fact, it is the Norwegian Church that in its time took the initiative that a common Muslim council was also formed, so that they had a dialogue partner. I think the Church is doing a very good job with that kind of dialogue, and that's maybe one of the reasons we've gotten better out of it than other countries. But for me, the most important thing is that we have meeting places, for example. a common public school, which we have had a difficult discussion about in recent years in Norway. Should we have different religious schools, such as a Muslim primary school of its own, which was established under the bourgeois government, and its own Christians, more fundamentalist schools, or are we going to keep the meeting places within the schoolwork, within the cultural policy, in the neighbourhoods – so that one actually meets across religions? I think that is the most important thing, and here I fully agree that the common religious dialogue between the church communities of Christianity and the Islamics is essential. But there's a very good job done, so I don't think there's any need for any further initiative to get it on track. That's good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e496	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e499	I want to follow this up with Norway being a multi-religious society. The Christian People's Party is most concerned that we have a minister of the Church that makes it possible for the religious dialogue to be built up, that understanding can be created, and that it is the Norwegian Church, it is a religious community, it is the religious communities that are going to run the dialogue, and not the Government first and foremost. We have bodies that have been engaged in religious dialogue both in Norway and abroad. Now we also have a post on the state budget where money has been allocated for dialogue and understanding, and the first thing this government in which Trond Giske sits was to cut off the appropriations for advice on faith and vision of life, including the Cooperation Council for Religious and Visionary Society. It was just $100,000 in the cut, but it gives a very strange signal. What does the government want to do with that? Would it be appropriate now, after what has happened, to try to come back with a reinforcement of that post?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e506	I agree with the representative's approach to the idea that it must be the religious environments themselves that are operating the dialogue, not the Government – we're going to facilitate it. Now I think the small budgetary adjustment has not had any significant consequences, but it is clear that if there are initiatives from these councils and the dialogue forums that they need increased leeway, of course we should look at it. I think this is a rather difficult balance for us, because, on the one hand, we must have freedom of religion, and people must both exercise their religion and set the values and norms they want within their religious faiths, but at the same time, and that is a little important, a society that has to function multiculturally, also have some common values and norms, and there are limits to what to do within religious freedom. For example, we accept. We do not accept discrimination against women on grounds of religion and culture. There are some common values that we have to call if we're to act as a multicultural society. It is precisely the balance between religious freedom and a well-functioning common society that is so difficult, challenging and important to find.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e513	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e516	The council is known for an undisputed and strong energy, and I'm never going to blame the council for visiting popular events. I'm not going to blame him for being active polemic against opponents either. But I miss the targeted energy of the Council of State, for example. an announcement of media policy in a multicultural, multi-religious society, when we know that the media debate is going around the globe. I miss, for example. a news report on religious policy. It was created under the previous government a faith training reform that provides the basis for shaping a religious policy. I also miss a line on how we can ensure a cultural policy in relation to the multicultural institutions – I know Mela, I have been involved in rocking it many times – a line that forms politics. If the Council of State does not have enough energy, I will at least promise that the Left has energy to add so many Document No. Eight proposals on the table that the Council of State will be eager enough to answer them. But I would have preferred something from the Government. The council must have energy! He got the power to use the energy, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e521	Now we've been sitting for just four months, so it's probably limited how many grandma messages you can provide at that time. It's been no longer than in the last growing-up period that we dealt with both a media message and a cultural message that both had a multicultural perspective. I'm probably not the most busy now to get new staging messages to recycle what was discussed three or four years ago, but instead of getting concrete actions. It's probably true that Dørum has mountained Mela many times, but it was the government shift that made sure that Mela and the amazing festival it is got an extra half a million dollars, and for Mela, I think it's more important to get the money that allows them to arrange their festival than if you make a new big message that Mela is important. Of course, we accept good proposals from the Left, and Odd Einar Dørum's significant energy is also not unknown, so we have to work together here. I really hope that this incredibly important field, a truly functioning multicultural society, will not be a cause for party conflicts, but a joint project. It deserves it, and it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e528	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e531	Norwegian immigration policy is not sustainable. This has an economic side. Regrettably, immigrants are overrepresented in the reception of some social security schemes. Unfortunately, participation in the labour market is low, and unfortunately it is also such that in some areas of crime, immigrants are overrepresented. But the most important reason why we have to limit immigration to this country is that integration has failed. These things are very closely intertwined, and we are going to have a good integration policy in which we have accepted our fundamental values in society, which have also been discussed earlier here today, for example. freedom of expression, yes, we have to take action on the immigration side. But on every occasion when the Progress Party has addressed this issue, it points to the need to tighten up immigration policy, yes, public debate, not least by the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has met with an argument that is largely very difficult to deal with, because trying to present it as if tightening up immigration policy would go beyond people who are being persecuted. It is quite clear that if we are to move forward in this debate, we need to have clarity in terms of who comes to Norway, and the reasons for it. That is why I ask the Council of State: can he once and for all clear up this confusion, and not least clarify how many people who actually came and were granted protection in 2005 under the Asylum Institute? Can he account for the ratio between these groups and other immigrant groups, and especially family immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e538	I do not feel that it is very confusing what is the basis for a residence permit in Norway. But what's an important point in the conceptual discussion is that as today's law is, people can stay for protection reasons in two ways, and it creates confusion. On the one hand, there are those who fully comply with the UN Convention on Refugees, which is defined as refugees and who are allowed to stay on that basis. Then there is another group that is allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, but for protection reasons. It is people who are not fully defined to meet the UN's refugee status requirements, but who are thought to clearly have a need for protection, for example. under the European Treaty of Human Rights. I agree that this situation creates ambiguities, and that is why, in line with what the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed, we also intend to promote a proposal for a new foreign law in the course of the year, where we are cleaning up the relationship between those who are given residence for protection reasons and those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e543	The point of my question was to illustrate the fact that there is no conflict between strongly limiting immigration on the one hand and maintaining and defending the institution of asylum on the other. It is true that last year the number of asylum seekers was only 500–567 in order to be accurate — while family immigration, which in practice represents more than 90pst. of immigration into that country, in reality a small city of Norway represented more than 13 000. Then it's imperative to ask some questions. In a situation where integration policy has failed, as the Council of State has also recognised, and where it is imperative to tighten up immigration policy in order to concentrate on full integration for those who have already arrived, does the Council of State see this context, and does it not worry when the population projections of the Central Bureau suggest that ethnic Nordics will be minority in their own country at the end of this century? [[President clubs]] before it can happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e550	The President must again ask that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e554	There were a lot of questions in the same question. I can't answer everyone, so that's what we get back to. What's a point in what's being addressed is whether, in connection with family reunification, we can just sit in Norway and say that now we think there are too many immigrants here, so now we end the possibility of family reunification. So even under strong international treaties, we have obligations to allow people to reunite with their families. There are international rights that guarantee it. And then there's one very important point about the family start-up and family reunion problem. Yes, it is true that the largest proportion of immigration to Norway is related to family start-up and reunification, but most of them are ethnic Nordics who marry foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e561	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e564	I have to say it was very reassuring to hear that the Council of State is now going to take the initiative to clear up the confusion of concepts in relation to immigration, asylum, refugee and family reunification. I think that is one of the elements that is important for us to succeed in agreeing on what measures are needed to create a good integration policy in Norway. I continue to record that the Council of State is a little evading from seeing immigration in the context of integration. He has that in common with the Council of State. The rest of Europe sees a clear link between the number of immigrants to the country and the resources and measures that need to be put in place to succeed in integration. Will the Council of State, when it comes to the Storting, ensure that we also see the number of immigrants and integration in the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e571	My analysis is probably more like this: I believe that we have a quite sensible and right immigration policy today. In my opinion, Norway has a strict immigration policy. Therefore, it will not be the starting point of the Government to adopt a policy that will lead to a substantial reduction in immigration. Those who get to Norway today come to Norway for good reasons – either because they need protection, because they have strong human reasons to stay here, because they come because of family start-up or family reunification, or because they are work immigration. So that part of the policy is pretty solid. However, this must lead to better success in integration policy, because we cannot solve the challenges of integration policy by taking major action without, in my view, pursuing a completely unfair immigration policy. That is why we must be better integrated and live with the immigration policy we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e576	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e579	One in five unemployed persons is immigrants. Norway needs their labour force, but if we are to succeed in integration policy, we need to take new action and more offensive action. Despite clear legislation, many job applications are rejected only because the applicant has a foreign language name. The Christian People's Party wants a more offensive policy, and we will propose an extended use of wage subsidies to people with a minority background. We will propose that the social partners make the integration of immigrants a major factor in the cooperation on an inclusive working life. We believe that adult training measures are needed to increase their skills with minority backgrounds, and we would suggest that companies in their annual reports should explain what they are doing to prevent discrimination. How does the Council of State feel about taking such offensive action?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e586	I can't answer all those suggestions in one way, for some of them I agree, and some of them I disagree with. In one minute, I can't answer anything but to say that we are going to have a comprehensive debate on a reinforced integration policy in Norway this year. In the draft State budget, the Government will present a separate action plan on increased integration, which will review all the measures, not least in relation to work, and many of the proposals now made by the Dryersdal will be included in that plan. But in addition, through the coordination of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, we will also work on school-side measures, on the cultural side, thus safeguarding the breadth of the challenges. We're doing great. What the Government has done in relation to employment as an immediate measure has been particularly done in the public sector. The problem has been that the public sector has been worse off than the private sector. So first we have to sweep a little for our own door and where the fee has arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e593	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e596	Another worker partyman, Thorbjørn Berntsen, had some statements about integration in the weekend, where he among other things. The fact that the immigrant population now has the opportunity to sell its small apartments in the inner city of Oslo and buy larger houses in Groruddalen was a threat to integration – and thus, in my view, the good schools that lie in the areas that have had a high minority-speaking share were black painted and deprived of the credit they should have had for the good job they do for integration. I have two questions for the Council of State. One is whether the Council of State agrees with Thorbjørn Berntsen's description of reality, that what I think is good integration, in fact, in his opinion, is bad – perhaps Berntsen is poorly integrated. So to my second question, if the Government as Minister of Labour doesn't see how important it is that we actually get increased access to labour, at a time when at least the Government has great ambitions for increased employment in the public sector, and that then people are also needed to work in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e605	I'll do the last one first. There I think I'm just answering yes, it's a very important starting point in the integration work that we actually need this workforce. That's why it's a game of resources that we haven't been able to integrate the immigrant population better into working life than we've done so far. There is a shortage of labour, and then we have free hands. And we have to be able to connect better. But then to Berntsen. Now I did not hear that entry myself, but I have got it referenced. I wouldn't have said it like that, to have said it. But I think what is an important point is that we should listen to those who claim that getting urban areas in Oslo with a huge proportion of immigrant populations represents some challenges for integration. I wish we had managed to make a development in Oslo, that we had got the integration work to work better than what we're doing when we get a very large share of immigrants in a few urban areas. I think it's a challenge for integration work that, in cooperation with Oslo – and it's about housing policy, it's about a lot of things – we can set things right in such a way that we don't get into a situation where some neighbourhoods are almost exclusively inhabited by immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e612	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e616	The Bondevik government launched the NAV reform, perhaps the most important reform we face in the public sector during this period. The aim of the reform is to give people a new chance and to allow the public sector to adapt to each other, so that they can get help to take active action. This is a comprehensive reform, which includes 16 000 annual works, where one pays NOK 265 billion. NAV Interim must be in place on 1 July and in 2010 it is hoped that this reform will be in place. The reform is widespread in Stortinget. Everyone now believed that the Government would have full focus on implementing the reform as it was adopted. On Monday, however, the Councils of State of Åslaug Haga and Heidi Grande Røys and the Committee of the Workers' Party presented to the Municipal and Management Committee, Dag Terje Andersen, a party hearing document entitled «Strengthening Regions for the Future». This publication, under the heading New Tasks, highlights that Aetat’s tools of competence aimed at businesses and job seekers can be one of the things transferred from the state to the new elected regions that the Government intends to implement and have in place by 2010. These organisations are now working very actively to put in place a complex and difficult reform. Is it so that Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also believes that they will now be disturbed in their work by having a parallel discussion that parts of their activities are now to be separated again and become part of the new elected regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e625	My starting point is that it is very unnatural to say that we are now going to have a broad discussion and review all the aspects of a matter, then to start that debate by saying that there are some things we shouldn't be discussing at all. That is why I think that when we are now discussing the new regional model, we must dare to take that debate to its fullest extent. But in this context, I would say that in a debate where some people might argue for a possibility of a greater division of tasks from the state to the new regions in relation to labour market policy, there are very many good arguments against such a transfer of responsibility. Among the heavy arguments that exist are the entire NAV reform, the whole organisation, the whole of the grip we are now doing, which is much more focused on the state/municipal than on the state/region. We are very busy looking at the transfer of responsibility, possibly from the state to the municipality, but not via the region. But that doesn't mean that I'm saying that then we're not going to take the debate, that all the answers are clear, and that everything is obvious. I have a position on politics that makes me think it is important to dare to take the debates, including those that may initially seem a little difficult, unpleasant and demanding in relation to established organisations and processes. But I have to say that I believe that there are very strong arguments to keep the lead on NAV, as it is now. Then, of course, in the government, we're going to listen to any other argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e632	The Council of State will receive full support from the Right in an approach to this issue, namely a division of labour between countries and municipalities more than between countries and the new regions. But this is a matter that is now going to be consulted in all the government parties. One government party, the Center Party, has programmed this in its program. A wholesale notification of this case is to be provided as early as the autumn, i.e. some months after the establishment of NAV Interim, 1 July. It will then be that what one has clearly seen in relation to this regional debate is that it is a major challenge for the government parties to fill these regions with meaningful work. This means that over the course of the spring, a quite likely person can see that more and more people are calling for parts of the NAV reform to be included in this new regional reform. Does not the Council of State think that it can disrupt the work that is being done in relation to putting in place a major and complex reform for which it is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e639	I feel that Tor Saglie, who is the Director of NAV Interim – and who will be the Director of NAV from 1 July – and the NAV organisation are professional. They work after the steering signals they have received, and I think that is the steering signal that I and the representative Höie are fully in agreement about. I think it would be entirely unproblematic for them to see that there is a debate at the same time on future regional reform. I think they'll act so professionally that they won't let themselves be disturbed by it. At the same time, I have also started a debate that very many in NAV feel as demanding as they drive and reorganize. It is we who have started a debate on the whole instrument, a full review and possible conversion of the whole instrument. Many will probably also say that it is disturbing in that process, but I think it is a crucial debate to take now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e644	The time for the oral question period has expired. As a result, today's maps are also processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure § 37 a? The representative of Inge Wohnning has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e651	It was said in one of the answers from one of the three meeting state councils in today’s Question Time that one of the big business representatives had received a ‘responsible response’. In my opinion, there is a slight lack of understanding of the role distribution between the Stortinget and the Norwegian Government. I had not taken this up if it had not been because it has occurred several times in the past also that government councils in this government have been injured to express similar views. One possible interpretation of it is that some people believe that when you have majority governments, the division of roles between the Storing and the Government changes. It doesn't do that to my terms. I might suggest that the President could pass it on in an appropriate way. Because if such a practice continues, it might be desirable for the Presidency to ask the Prime Minister's office to arrange a small course for the members of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e658	The President has some doubts as to whether this is in relation to Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure § 37a, which is due to errors in the handling of cases. But the president takes the call, and will then ask the Presidency, where the representative ing his wage, to possibly bring it up there. Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has asked for the floor. The President shall allow him to reply, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e663	I choose to take the floor because I believe that in that case there is an obvious misunderstanding. Because what was meant by my way of answering was that I felt that I was being criticized for not answering the question from the representative Engeset. I thought that the question from the representative Engeset contained several elements, the main theme of which was the lack of labour and national strategy. And the purpose of saying that the representative was given a ‘deserved answer’ was that the answer was in line with the content of his own question. If it was misunderstood, if I was given such an assessment that the government can get along in Stortinget, I must say that I have been here for so long that it could never have allowed me to fall in. And I'm glad I got the opportunity to clear up that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-08.ana.ud1200e668	Then the president hopes that it will be resolved, and that one of them will be able to cancel the meeting.
