ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e32	I am pleased that today the Stortinget will be discussing a topic that I have been dealing with since the study period at NTNU, namely environmental technology, among others. This is due to the future of Norwegian industry and forward-looking jobs in Norway, but also for another reason. Let me say like Jan Kjærstad, who starts his book The Tempter: "Let me tell another story." According to the UN Millennium Goals, world poverty must be reduced by 50 pst. within 10 years. Such growth in wealth cannot be avoided by means of massive growth in energy consumption. In total, there are 2 billion people in the world who lack access to modern forms of energy. This means that they have neither electric lights nor the ability to operate modern machines. This need cannot be satisfied by fossil energy, because it will not withstand the climate on earth. At the same time, with rising oil prices, there is an increasingly topical question of whether poor people would be able to afford fossil-based wealth development. The challenges are formidable. At the same time, industrial ventures have emerged in Norway that may prove to be part of the solution. In recent years, Norwegian industry has shown great adaptability. What seemed to be sunset industries has proved to be – in a literal sense – sunrise industries by investing in solar energy. Old industrial communities such as Glomfjord, Narvik and Herøya today offer modern, forward-looking jobs. According to renewable energy centres at NTNU, the amount of solar energy that hits the earth per year corresponds to about 15 000 times the world’s total energy consumption. Today's solar technology, with 15 pst. efficiency, can supply Norway with 120 TWh annually, equivalent to today’s electricity production, by covering 0,4 pst. of the land area of Norway with solar cells. A corresponding value also applies to the United States of America. That's why it's possible to cover all of our electricity consumption with solar cells. To put it simply, a regular solar cell is a thinly cut slice of crystallised silicon that is coated and applied to a network of live wires that capture the electricity produced when the light hits the disc. Silicon is one of the most common elements in nature, and is produced from sand, quartz and gauze. Although the new opera will have the largest solar panel in the country, the market for solar energy in Norway is limited. Solar energy is mainly used in cabins and in an increasing number of lighthouses and lighthouses along the Norwegian coast. REC is definitely one of our biggest technological lighthouses. It is enigmatic that a country with such a long time of darkness and so much low cloud cover can be world-leading on solar energy. However, Norway has become a world leader in the production of silicon metal — the raw material for solar cells. The company REC was established in the old industrial community Glomfjord by the founders Alf Bjørseth and Reidar Langmo in 1996. It started with the production of silicon discs for solar panels. Gradually, the company has expanded the spectrum to cover everything from production of super pure silicon via discs to finished solar modules and panels. Today, the company is – literally – a shining example of the ability to invest and create new jobs on the basis of environmental technologies both in Norway and internationally, not only in companies under the REC umbrella, such as Scanwafer, but also for all subcontractors, such as France. Artech AS on Kalbakken, which manufactures automated production cells for Scanwafer on the island of Hereya, or as Orkla Exolone on Hurricane in my home state of South-Tronde Layer, which produces silicon carbide used to cut the thin slices of crystalline silicon. Orkla Exolone has approx. 30 pst. of the world market for silicon carbide used in the production of solar cells and is one of the industrial enterprises likely to suffer from the lack of transmission capacity for electricity to central Norway. Because even bright industrial adventures can have their shadow pages. Traditionally, solar silicon is extracted from abstinence from the silicon of the electronics industry. Indirectly, much of this Norwegian-produced silicon metal. Each has 50 pst. of the world market for pure silicon for the electronics industry, but there is a high shortage of such pure silicon. Elkem Solar is developing a process to clean silicon from Norwegian melting plants for the solar industry. The development takes place at a pilot plant in Kristiansand. On a full scale, this will mean that silicon-bearing minerals from quartzite fractures, for example. Finnmark and Nordland can be transformed into the raw material needed to produce silicon discs in Norway. Elkem Solar also predicts a bright future and can provide new energy for Norwegian melting plants. Today we import silicon for the production of solar cells. We have large deposits of quartz, as well as high skills and prerequisites for producing pure silicon. So it's a paradox that we import the raw material when we're literally sitting on a silicon rock. Of course, a challenge in terms of producing pure silicon itself is the need to identify several viable occurrences. The industry here calls for a mineral law that has been notified for 22 years, but in addition, it is also very concerned that there is training for few geologists here to land. 95 pst. by trained geologists disappear into the petroleum sector and the training of future resource geologists is now threatened by closure due to a lack of national commitment. I share the concern of the mining industry about the situation, not least because Norway has an enormous potential for further investment in solar energy. My question is therefore: does my Minister of Industry share my vision of future-oriented industrial workplaces, and how will he help the Norwegian solar industry to continue to shine? Solar energy is far from the only example of successful investment in environmental technology here to land. Here are many good examples of how environmental technologies create new and profitable jobs. Tomra has chosen to be a return solution. Plastec provides purification solutions for drinking water that are essential in the emergency and assistance context. In the Norwegian aluminium industry, we see that forward-looking companies replace polluting Søderberg kilns with modern pre-baking furnaces that have less emissions and use less electricity per year. unit of production. The process industry is researching and developing processes that will significantly reduce energy consumption. We know that industry’s recovery and recovery can both help ensure profitability, provide a better balance of power in Norway and reduce global emissions through technology transfer. At Umoe Mandal, there are about 40 workplaces for the production of wind turbines in the area where minesweepers were previously produced with the same kind of technology developed for the warships. I guess this is the closest example we have here to the country of swearing filth to plough. Umoe in Mandal, the iron foundry in Kristiansand and the steel industry in Mo i Rana are subcontractors of the Danish wind power industry, which is world leader. Vestas had 60 employees in 1987 and 10,618 employees on 1 January 2006. One might wonder why this happened in Denmark and not in Norway. We have a lot more wind. There are several industrial communities that have been revived because of windmills. At Verdalsøra, Nord-Trøndelag Elektrietsverk together with Hydro develops a Norwegian technology environment for the production of large wind turbines, tailored for Norwegian weather and wind. Some people might be in the error that SV doesn't like water turbines. That's not true. In SV, we think that's the size it depends on. SV has previously proposed an active effort to use the energy from drinking water by replacing brake valves with turbines. But not enough of that, in the SV-steered Rana municipality, the country's first sewer plant will soon be opened to take advantage of the energy from the wastewater to Mo Industripark. Of course, the height of fall in the waterworks is already 25 GWh per year. Water turbines are something we have solid competence in here to land, among other things. by NLI Sørumsand Workshop, which the Business Committee visited in winter. Another thing we have a lot of here in the country is agricultural heat. Now it's not the reactions to the agricultural settlement I have in mind. Norwegian settlements grow again of forest and forest, and generally the growth is greater than the yield. Here it pop up one company after another, because with rising oil prices, people are obviously looking for alternative sources of heating. I could have said a lot about why bioenergy is tricked, but I think it would almost be underestimating my co-representatives. My main point in this context is to find out that here we have an area of great potential for creating jobs, especially in District Norway. The examples show that industry, including the Norwegian industry, needs a shift to sustainability. This gives future jobs. We have to have a perspective that captures the whole thing, and where you see value chains in context. A majority government provides a good starting point for lighting the lights and showing the way to increased sustainability and long-term investment in forward-looking industrial workplaces in Norway – workplaces that both have a global perspective, such as solar energy, and a national focus such as wind, and a more local focus such as bioenergy. Technological development and investment in waste management and recycling as well as environmental improvements in addition to EU standards are not affected by the prohibition of State aid, Article 61 of the EEA Agreement. Despite the tight hand of the EEA Agreement over Norwegian industry, we have a great deal of room for action in allocating such efforts with the possibility of increasing efforts, for example. in relation to investment aid and corporate R & D. Through the Soria Moria Declaration, all government parties agree that we should become an environmental nation and be in the forefront of development. My question is therefore: what can the Minister of Industry do to make Innovation Norway more susceptible to such forward-looking jobs? Can he guarantee that every fiber in the Government is working to fulfill the Soria Moria Declaration's intention of strategic efforts to make Norway a leader in the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e87	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting this debate on the agenda. As the interpellant also pointed out, there are many good examples, and it's done a lot. This is what the Government will build on. The Norwegian economy is in a very good period. Unemployment is falling, employment is increasing, enterprises are investing, and this is going reasonably well. The government will contribute to the continuation and improvement of this positive situation. The interpellant is developing a technology area, environmental technology, which is at the heart of a vision of creating a forward-looking business and working life, in a sustainable interaction between growth and protection. We share this vision. Developing new technologies that reduce environmental pressures than existing technologies will both bring benefits to the environment and could lead to economic growth and employment in Norway. In several fields, Norway is well advanced in the development of new, environmentally friendly technologies. Examples are the development of energy-efficient construction, environmentally friendly ship technology, energy technology, waste and return solutions and many innovations in oil and gas activities. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we say that the Government will make the Norwegian industry ‘leading in environmental improvements’. As a result of an increasing international interest in environmental technologies, the realisation of this vision will involve significant export opportunities for Norwegian environmental technologies and not least for Norwegian environmental products. This can help create safe jobs in Norway in the years to come. Norway shall be the world leader in oil and gas technology. The government has therefore put in place an ambitious scheme to realise a good CO2 management and to create a value chain for the transport and injection of CO2. We are now working on three sub-projects: one is linked to the initial negotiations between the commercial operators in a CO2 chain. The second is the design of sewage treatment plants on Kårstø. The third is legal and organisational aspects of State involvement in the CO2 chain. In addition, the government has clear ambitions to facilitate increased use of bioenergy. Such energy conversion has a high potential for emission reductions and local economic development. Let's do more. In order to help Norway gain experience in the management of hydrogen as a fuel, the Government proposes to exempt hydrogen cars that can only use hydrogen as a fuel for a one-off charge. This shall take effect on 1 July 2006. The exemption is temporary. The exemption will also cover hybrid cars equipped with hydrogen-based internal combustion engines in addition to electric motors. In addition, the Government proposes to exempt from the CO2 tax the percentage of bioethanol blended with petrol from 1 January 2007. The exemption will provide enhanced incentives for the choice of environmentally friendly fuels. There is here a CO2 reduction potential corresponding to the incorporation rate. Norway has the best conditions to be good in the field of environmental technologies. A week ago, I visited the European Commission's Vice-President, Günther Verheugen. We visited Statoil's plant on Melkoya outside Hammerfest. Here, Norwegian natural resources are combined with unique competences and knowledge. I dare say that the project would not be carried out without political will and public commitment. What's going on at Melkøya is no less than an industrial adventure. Technology is world-leading, and it's bold. Thanks to the fact that Norway is at the forefront of environmental technology, the expansion has not led to polluting emissions to the sea. Other good examples of Norwegian environmental technology companies doing well internationally are Tomra and REC. Tomra supplies machinery for the recycling of drinking bottles. They operate in more than 40 countries and have an annual turnover of several billion dollars. REC is today the only company in the world that covers the entire production chain related to solar energy. The company, which includes the subsidiaries ScanWafer and Scancell, recently went on the stock exchange and was then valued at a staggering SEK 57.8 billion – and so it's only 12 years since they started up. In common with Snow White, Tomra and REC, they have invested considerable resources in research and development and public funds have contributed to this effort. Public funds often have the effect of making research projects both more bold and more long-term. Tomra received $9.5 million. kr in support from the Norwegian Research Council in the last ten years. Similarly, REC’s development has been supported by a total of 49 million in the last ten years. Norway’s Research Council, while Innovation Norway has contributed a total of 100 million. kr. Here we see clear political differences in business policy. The previous government drastically cut in precisely these instruments. We're going to bet heavily, and we're going to bet offensively. We believe that public funds help to mobilise extra private funds. On a proposal from the Government, the size has increased the appropriations allocated to the Norwegian Research Council by 170 million. kr over my budget. The tax FUNN scheme, which provides tax credits for companies' investment in research and development, is added. Appropriations for my budget will be made available to a number of schemes in the Research Council involving research into environmental technologies. The schemes cover, inter alia: renewable energy production and efficient energy systems, maritime activities and offshore operations, logistics and transport, construction and installations, product production and material management and process and biomedical industries. Interpellanten referred to the instruments of Innovation Norway. These are very important. This is why we are increasing the funding for Innovation Norway by 307 million in 2006. kr. This gives room for increased focus on the environment. Through the governance dialogue with Innovation Norway, we focus on strengthening the focus on the environment and on new energy in 2006. In recent years, innovation in Norway has provided significant funds for environmental projects. In 2003, 361 million went. kr to projects assessed as environmental measures. In 2004, the corresponding amount was 560 million. NOK 374 million was committed in 2005. kr to this area. The high amount in 2004 is mainly due to large commitments to the previously mentioned ScanWafer. ScanWind in Verdal is, as the interpellant mentioned, another example of a company that is leading within its technology and that Innovation Norway has supported. The company has a high knowledge of the construction of large wind turbines. The aim is to build large and cost-effective wind turbines for use in the Nordic climate and landscape. The government has had discussions with Sweden on a common electricity certificate market. The discussions showed that this would be an expensive scheme for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian business. The government will later present the arrangements to be put in place to promote new renewable energy. It can also be mentioned that the Government has decided to establish a Green Travel Development Programme in Norway. The 2007 framework is set at 25 million. kr. Green tourism is also part of the forthcoming Government Action Plan on Sustainable Use, Management and Care of Protected Areas. I very much appreciate the interpellant's commitment to environmentally friendly technology and the ability to create new jobs on the basis of this technology. Increased efforts on relevant instruments are an important step in the right direction to promote Norwegian environmental technologies. The Government will follow up the Soria Moria Declaration on strategic efforts related to environmental improvements. We are already betting significantly and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e154	I would first like to thank you for a thorough and positive response from the Council of State. I am very pleased that the Minister of Industry shares my vision of future jobs. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Industry is also concerned about and sees the importance of whole value chains. In this case, it is quite clear that the government wants to have a grip on business policy and get it into a more environmentally friendly direction. At the same time, however, I am also aware that the Minister of Industry is not the only one in the Government responsible for environmental technology, because environmental technology policy is designed in several departments. The Ministry of Knowledge has a role through research and education, while the Ministry of Oil and Energy manages several instruments for investing in new renewable energy. The Ministry of Finance has its role through fiscal policy. And the Ministry of Agriculture is an important player in terms of both bioenergy and the target of 15 pst. organic food production by 2015. The Ministry of Transport, together with the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has worked with hydrogen that produces energy in the future, and the Ministry of Environment is an important premiscuous supplier to drive environmental technology, as we have seen, for example, through strict environmental requirements in the North Sea. The Ministry of Fisheries does so by means, for example, of structural policies. These are a number of examples that show that there are several departments that are involved in loading. To use a picture from the music, it's like the Minister of Industry isn't just playing the piano, he's starting the whole orchestra to bet on environmental technology. The question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State, as an orchestral director, get the other departments, in addition to Innovation Norway and the Research Council, to interact around the environment and industry to renew existing industry, to preserve industrial workplaces in Norway, to give new lives to old industrial communities and to create new jobs for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e163	In the extension of both the interpellant now and what I said in my own post, I would like to focus a little on some arrangements that the Ministry of Industry and Trade supports through the Research Council and Innovation Norway, which are related to environmental technology. So there are a number of schemes in the Norwegian Research Council that are funded from my ministry's budget, which are related to the very challenges that the interpellant is facing in environmental technology. The development of new technologies in renewable energy production and more efficient energy systems are at the heart of the major initiative called RENERGI. There are a number of projects under this programme that have contributed to important eco-innovations. Thirty million. In increased transfers to the MAROFF programme, research into maritime activities and offshore operations has been strengthened. This programme shall contribute to Norwegian maritime transport being an attractive transport option in terms of efficiency, economy and, in particular, environmental friendliness. We have also strengthened our commitment to commercialising research results through an increase of 22 million. D in appropriations for the FORNY programme, where energy and environmental projects are well represented. I would like to stress that through Innovation Norway, we also have a broad approach to environmental technologies. In recent years, Innovation Norway has been involved in a number of investment and not least development projects in companies that are currently leading environmental technology companies internationally. Innovation Norway also supports many projects in which companies use new products to reduce an environmental problem. Innovation Norway cooperates with several business networks in environmental technologies. The aim is increased cooperation and to contribute to innovation and business development aimed at international markets. When the interpellant asks how to start the orchestra as Minister of Industry, there's a lot of ways to do it. But what I think is most important, is to have a continuous dialogue, and to remind all those who are decision-makers, that it is important to go in the same direction. Conversion is important. This government is not opposed to conversion. A concrete example is Årdal Metallverk, which for a time has shut down the production of aluminium by Søderberg plant. It was a purely environmental measure. And then the challenge is to set up other tools to get other production going that will ensure that those people who get out of work because of change have a job to do. As Minister of Industry, I will use my time not to stop a change, but to contribute to a constructive transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e178	The interpellant has put important aspects of industrial policy on the agenda here today, and I must say I am very pleased with the presentation just made by the Minister for Industry and Trade. I want to use this debate to focus more on what is now happening in parts of – one must say – our mature industry, the melting plant industry. I think it is necessary, and it deserves it, a stronger public and political interest. This part of our industry has for decades provided the country with foreign exchange income and contributed greatly to building well-being. It's not like it's a solar industry. On the contrary — it has evolved, and is today technologically and competently world-leading. There has been a tendency that this part of industry has not been regarded as adaptive and forward-looking. But it is. I want to use an example from Orkla Exolone in the municipality of Orkdal, a brilliant example of the conversion of a silicon carbide plant into new products – products that are essential in the production of solar cells and that go to export. In recent years, the company has implemented a comprehensive energy saving programme in cooperation with Enova, and today a comprehensive expansion of new premises is being undertaken to enable the company to realise a project for a new environmental product providing 30-40 new jobs at the company in Orkdal. One thing in all is that the company is all-time American. At least the Americans think it is right to invest in the future in the competence and technology environment in Orkanger, with closeness to the NTNU and Sintef environment, to create environmental products for the global market. I am both inspired and impressed by what these environments of competence do, and I look forward to the visit of the nutrition committee to the company in September. The major challenge we face as politicians in this context is to ensure that this and all other companies in the region have access to power at an acceptable price. It has to be solved. A potential power crisis in the region is really political, and it must and must be resolved by political means.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e191	I also want to say that the interpellant addresses an important topic in its interpellation. I was a little uncertain whether the interpellation should have a one-sided environmental focus, or whether one should also have a business perspective and an industrial perspective on this. I think maybe the interpellant could have had a greater focus on the nutritional and the industrial, but it is clear that the interpellant has also made some good points in his post. I think we can all say that this with environmental technology is forward-looking, and that Norwegian industry will build much of its future on environmental technology. It will contribute to jobs, and it will contribute to value creation. Norwegian industry is going reasonably well by day, and it is precisely because very many of the major locomotives in Norwegian industry are setting environmental technology as an important element in the products and services they develop and produce. Environmental technologies have become a priority for many enterprises, and this is also reflected in the bottom line, by their good performance. The interpellant has also shown a number of these companies. The last one is the stock exchange comet REC, which is maybe the hottest name this day. The common feature of all these companies is that they are using new technologies. They're early on developing new technologies, and not least they're connecting new technologies and markets. We must not forget the market here, because it is the market that is developing and demanding the new technology and also environmentally friendly technology. So it's the technology that's being dominated, but you're delivering something like market demand. This also applies to enterprises such as Norsk Hydro, Statoil and Statkraft, i.e. enterprises that have a strong environmental focus in their work, although these are enterprises that SV otherwise regard as environmental enemies. It is enterprises that are highly developed in environmental technologies and that are highly committed to this. I also believe that the companies have noticed that it is positive to profile themselves as a company that takes care of the environment. It's a market response, which gives a good reputation on the market, and which makes us, as consumers or as buyers in companies, choose the product rather than anything else, because we have the impression that the product protects the environment as well as that it performs the function we're after in a good way. Therefore, my point is that the market also contributes to the preservation of the environment. The market is not an environmentally hostile animal, on which SV often tries to focus. It is the market that demands technology, that makes businesses focus on it, and that ensures earnings and jobs. It turns out that enterprises voluntarily rate environmental technology because it pays off for the enterprise. It gives good sales, it gives good returns, and it also ensures the company's future. We as public authorities can also contribute, but it will primarily be through research programmes that have a technology focus and not just an environmental focus. Norway also has several leading research institutions in this field. In the area where I come from, the Institute of Energy Engineering at Kjeller is one of the world's leading environments. We must ensure the proper and predictable financing of such institutions. We must also be careful to apply specific environmental taxes to Norwegian businesses and Norwegian consumers. I don't think that's what's going to drive environmental technology in the future. Nor will it prevent Norwegian industry from developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e208	It is a very important topic for the interpellant, and it itself gave many good examples of how Norwegian industry has managed to exploit part of the environmental technology we know, and to be able to commercialise it. There we're all a few, and I could well on behalf of the Right sign on most of what the interpellant said. What's getting a little bit harder is when we get to what's interpellant's concrete question, which is: what concrete thing are we going to do about this? So how can our contribution as politicians at different levels, and from the Storting in particular, be in this important case complex? We cannot escape the fact that research, development and innovation are one of the most important things we deal with when it comes to developing this industry, which can have a great future in Norway. Then it's a little disappointing – to use that word – when the red-green government already cuts significantly at the first crossroads compared to what was presented in the Storting, at the most important posts when it comes to research, innovation and development. It is said that it cannot be expected that a new government will change so much on an already submitted budget, but the cuts that the new government was able to impose were significant in relation to that of research, innovation and development. It was just a cut on the Research Fund in general that next year will amount to about 800 million. kr in lost income for Norwegian research. There was a direct reduction in nutrition law research, development, Innovation Norway and the toolkit of almost 100 million. kr. In addition, the new government reversed the proposal from the centre-right to cut the depreciation rates, which would have made it easier to replace and modernise machinery and equipment in the business world – DKK 1.5 to 1.6 billion. This is significant, and I know that the Council of State does not like to be reminded of this – these are only proposals, says the Council of State, it was not implemented. No, and that's an important point, but within the same framework as the Government has now provided, the previous government had a significantly higher level of ambition. Then, a few months later, the government got a new chance – and we'll give it – in the revised budget, but there wasn't so much new to enjoy either. There is some increase from 2005 to 2006, but still cut compared to what the previous government provided. That's what I think is very sad. So the interpellant in one of his posts says that the Minister of Food and Trade should make sure to be the orchestral leader in the orchestra to create growth and development, including for environmental-based enterprises. Yes, it's possible, but I don't think, if I'm going to be completely honest – and there's going to be one in this room too – that the Minister of Industry himself is particularly pleased with the cuts that this orchestra has put on Norwegian industry, Norwegian innovation and Norwegian development. Instead of a more active, positive and constructive policy, we've got a policy that's less focused precisely on the fields that are important to achieve what interpellant demand, and I can never believe that is the Council of State's will. But it shows that the orchestra he's going to play with isn't as busy with these issues and priorities completely different from what I think both the inter-pellant and the council will. We're going to do our thing from the Right side to help re-establish some of the cuts that the Government is now doing. We're going to make suggestions further in these areas. It's never too late to turn around, so I hope that we don't now have a further decline in the measures that would create that growth and development also in the field of environmental technology that interpellant demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e225	In relation to the development of environmental workplaces, SV considers that there is reason to be optimism. This is not a problem, as for example. Representatives from the Progress Party still seem to believe with their reservations, but this is actually an opportunity. For SV, it is important to avoid causing serious and irreversible damage to the environment and to our descendants. Similarly, it is important to avoid becoming technologically disadvantaged, with job losses as a result. This has been SV's policy as long as I have been in SV. It's a little sad that the Progress Party still doesn't seem to have got it. Nor does the market itself demand such solutions. The market demand someone has to decide to demand, or what someone requires. I have worked a lot in relation to HMS in the petroleum sector, and I know a lot about what the demands made on HMS have contributed to the development of technology in that area. It also confirms the companies when we talk to them, so that what is done politically in these areas is very important. In addition, consumer awareness is of major importance. But it's not like this is a drawback. On the contrary, the authorities here should be faced with requirements in relation to products and production, which means that Norwegian jobs and Norwegian industry will be in the forefront and will not be in the backyard. Then it is that the pressure on innovation, environmental research and action needs to be significantly increased if the fear of change is to be reduced. Today it feels very unsafe, because you don't see enough pressure from the research, which shows that there are new opportunities going on. But in some areas, it's pretty clear what we can do. In the evening post it was on 2 May 2005: «Right outside the front door, we swim in unused energy. With simple grip, trees and scrubs can give us energy equivalent to at least five gas power plants. The Swedes and find grandiose. In Norway, bioenergy is reserved for the celebrations.» The last one might not be quite right, but there's still too little pressure on this. I'm not going to spend too much time going into the details either, but bioenergy is a good industrial policy, it's a good environmental policy, it's very district friendly, it preserves the cultural landscape, it gives agriculture more legs to stand on, it gives a lot of jobs in relation to the energy produced, it's flexible for the person who's going to use it – the individual comes out of the power trap and can use different energy carriers when prices change – bioenergy helps us meet the Kyoto commitments, so it's forward-looking in all areas. The area of the country from which I come, Hedmark, is, to say the like, of the great owners, where the great possibilities lie. This is actually inland oil and gas, if I can say it this way, you own this resource, it actually grows up from the ground, and it's CO2 neutral. In Finland, a strategy has been developed for this, called the Inland 2010 project, which has been run by the states concerned. One has an ambitious goal in those plans, which have been a cooperation between different agencies and agencies in the interior, and also a cooperation with the ministry. You want to raise domestic bioenergy consumption up to 30 pst. for stationary energy use — that is equivalent to 3 TWh per year, which far exceeds the national target. Biodiesel can be supplied for mobile energy use in Norway equivalent to 30 million litres per year. year, i.e. 2 pst. of annual diesel consumption in Norway, biofuels and bioenergy skills in Norway and the Nordic countries can be exported, and between 300 and 800 new jobs can be created in the country as a result of the use of bioenergy. So there is no other single business segment that we know will be able to create as many sustainable jobs as this, and then I haven't taken what this will mean by reducing CO2. So in this area, I have a call for the Council of State, that here it's just putting on full pressure. There will be jobs, better environment and district development. It's a cheek egg for the country and for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e249	I'd like to start by pinking the representative Vaggen Malvik to highlight this topic in business policy. There is no doubt that modern environmental technology has a large global market. In Norway too, we must be able to develop a viable industry in this area. For us in the Christian People's Party, the goal of a resilient society in an environmental sense is an important goal. It is in the Christian steward mind that we should pass the inheritance on to new generations, and preferably in better condition than when we took over ourselves. This requires long-term thinking, and it requires resilient solutions to the challenges we face. There is a connection between knowledge, use and new actions. For this reason, the Christian People's Party will continue its efforts to invest in fundamental research in the environment and society. It's important. At the same time, we will support research programmes aimed at developing new technical solutions. We also need government capital that can go in and finance the start-up of new enterprises, in particular for this seed capital. I also believe that we can get better advice on how to hire new companies. It is possible to build industrial environments that both developers and produce different eco-technological products, and I find reason to remind you that we already have good examples of companies that have done this, which we have been reminded of earlier today. However, it is also important to see the link between environmental research, technology development and industrialisation. So it must be coherent in policy to close down with a national environmental technology effort. As politicians, we need to create a framework for the use of environmental technologies. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we are disappointed about the government in the matter of a green certificate market. Such a market would have triggered the development of wind power and small-scale power plants on a completely different scale than we see today, and we could have actually also built a Norwegian wind turbine industry. We therefore need to be able to use charges to promote the use of environmentally friendly solutions, such as: cars powered by ethanol. We must also be able to set environmental requirements when they apply, for example: gas power plants. Therefore, it would be right to impose requirements for CO2 management in new gas power plants. Without strict environmental requirements, it takes longer to develop and implement environmentally friendly solutions. We must also be able to use research and development contracts when we want to provide environmentally friendly solutions, and both the state and the municipalities must be demanding customers when purchasing equipment, when choosing solutions, and when wanting things done. I'm not sure if there is a lack of tools to promote the production of environmental technologies in Norway. Perhaps it is more about using the tool that exists in the Minister of Industry toolbox. It may be more about targeted actions, but it is well worth considering, choosing and daring to prioritise environmentally friendly solutions. So we need a coherent policy for the area. In the Christian People's Party, we would like to see a Minister of Industry who was even more offensive when it came to fighting with the Minister of the Environment, who chose the environmental side of energy policy, and who defended the commitment to knowledge and research. In the Christian People's Party, we hope that the Minister of Industry will highlight the rich potential of environmental technology for many new and exciting jobs in our country. It will draw industrial policy in a more environmentally friendly direction, while contributing in a good way to further positive growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e275	The interpellant travels a topic on which the Left is very concerned, and has been active for many years, using economic policy and industrial policy in the service of the environment – and vice versa. There is no doubt that in many areas Norway is in the forefront of the development of environmentally friendly technologies, and we can also create many new jobs in the future by taking into account our competitive advantage – a highly educated and relatively reasonable workforce. This is why we need to facilitate the creation of new enterprises, based on knowledge-based, advanced technologies, preferably in environmental technologies. Entrepreneurs must then be invested in research and it must be made attractive to start new businesses on this basis. I have no doubt that the interpellant has a real commitment to creating new and profitable jobs based on environmental technologies. However, I am more in doubt about the government's ability to follow up. So far, there's nothing to suggest. The development of modern technology, research and innovation are linked here, and the government has failed on several occasions. In its very first budget, the government cut $25 billion from the Research Fund. One fucking 100 million. kr in industrial research and tightened up the tax FUNN for maritime operators. The same line is followed in the revised budget. Neither research nor investment in eco-innovation is a priority. Only cut to the Research Fund meant almost DKK 1 billion less for research each year – a cut that has to be compensated for by corresponding government budget appropriations, in competition with municipal economy, hospitals, transport, kindergartens and schools, etc., etc. In other words, the representative Vaggen Malvik has a formidable task ahead of her if she is to reverse these political priorities of government. The inter-pellant also refers to the potential to exploit agricultural heat. bioenergy. It may not be primarily the Minister of Industry who has that responsibility, but it is equally very important. There's probably no reason to boast about the government's power of action in this area either. It's just to point to a case like green certificates, which are very topical today, where the government has shown an impressive lack of willingness to promote measures that stimulate the use of alternative energy. However, there is no doubt that there is a large and untapped potential for both bioenergy and other alternative energy sources. The challenge, which I am sure the interpellant agrees with, is to bring about a change in the energy policy where unused renewable heat resources are used on a comprehensive scale, so that current currently used for heating can be released for other purposes. Therefore, it is important to improve support schemes for enterprises and private individuals that will focus on heating for alternative energy sources. I can promise both the inter-pellant and the Council of the Left's cordial support if the Government thinks in the same direction. For the Left, it is an important principle that environmental policy as well as industrial policy should take environmental considerations into account. That's why we want a transition from red to green. That's why we say no to our own power regime for the industry, as the government has promised. Therefore, we will actively use charging policy in the service of the environment, and therefore we will stimulate research and development of environmental technologies. Unlike the Progress Party, we believe that an active industrial policy and an active environmental policy can actually lead us forward. Orchestra leader, said the interpellant that the council was, but there are quite a number of false tones in the orchestra. This government came to the table, as the Council of State said, with both a good economy, unemployment that goes down, and more jobs have never been created. That means that the old recipe of the previous government was effective, and now we hope that old socialism and old social-democratic thinking will not bring us back again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e300	Today's interpellation reflects an impatience to see the Government's commitment to renewable energy, which has been promised for a long time. That's understandable enough, because if the government had been speeding up renewable energy issues, there wouldn't have been a need for this interpellation. So it's nice to see that even far into the corridors of the government parties you see that the government is so far on a blind road. So far, everything is exposed to renewable efforts. And it's kind of interesting to think that the same person who's now taking up an interpellation, two years ago in this room, stood and boasted that there was an SV who had been impressed with the implementation of a scheme of green certificates, and that scheme should be implemented as early as 1 January 2005. And there was no way how cruel the last government, the Bondevik II government, was, who could not carry it out per. 1 January 2005. Then it was to be implemented on 1 January 2006, and when it was finally suspended until 1 January 2007 because the Swedes needed more time, it was still the fault of the Bondevik II government. Now we see that the red-green government only spends five months in the government offices before they scrape the whole thing that the representative Vaggen Malvik here just two years ago boasted that there was SV standing behind. Then we've been promised afterwards that the option to the green certificates that will guarantee renewable energy investment is right around the corner. At the end of February, the energy minister said it was coming in two weeks, so he said it was coming just before Easter, and then it was before 1 May, and then it was just after 1 May, then it was last week, and then it was this week. Now we'd like to think it might come before summer, but anyway, it's been so long now that we know that the Storting will not be dealt with with any renewable energy plan before summer comes. What we've seen so far is that this government has put renewable energy at risk by at least six months. No further development is taking place either because no framework conditions exist. It is a paradox that, on the same day as promoting an interaction from SV on renewable investment, SV promotes a Document No. Eight proposals for the Stortinget that one should not carry out further work on getting into a green certification market with Sweden. With this as a reputation after eight and a half months in government, I understand that the interpellant wants answers about the government's work. Everyone in this room is positive for renewable energy, even though some people are trying to take exclusive advantage of it. The disagreement is more about what kind of time horizon we have before the technologies are mature and commercializable, and when we get real profitability. That is not all that is available commercially today, although it is being researched and developed on it. It is important that we continue to pursue real science, the environment of competence, realistic energy policies and, above all, good long-term business framework conditions in the future, or in the future. It's a little bit interesting that the interpellant, which represents a party that wants to close the stock exchange, on this pulpit actually appears to be the largest stock exchange speculator of all of them. The representative Vaggen Malvik has taken on the role of stock exchange houses. The husband of the sales inserts for REC I have hardly heard. The same goes for wind power. Now they're not quoted yet, but with Vaggen Malvik as a patriot on the Tribune they can probably imagine a positive stock exchange development. But let's not be completely blinded by good visions. Let's not get completely blinded by the fact that things actually have a future. Because if we read Technical Weekly – and this goes to those who boast Danish wind power like the big – we see that Danish Vestas, one of Europe's leading producers of wind turbines, is going to have a deficit of DKK 1.2 billion for 2005. They explain the disastrously poor figures with enormous guarantee costs due to the breakdown of existing installations and the almost complete decline of the domestic market in Denmark. So there are actually things happening on the wind front that aren't just positive, and we're also going to take that with us before we talk this up in the clouds. So finally a hint to orchestral director and business minister Eriksen from a performer: there won't be much music when the instruments are locked away in fear of playing Swedish music. Therefore, it is appropriate to reconsider Document No. The 8-proposal from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre today to reverse the Storting's decision, wrongly made, to work for a Swedish-Norwegian certification market. It is the largest guarantee of renewable energy investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e319	It is not by chance that most of my examples in this interpellation have dealt with environmentally friendly energy technology. Norway has solid competence in energy technology, we have plenty of access to resources, and we have money to invest. Ironically, dissatisfaction in the Middle East, hurricanes in the Americas, and insurrection in Nigeria provides help for environmental technology efforts. Because when the oil price rises to over $70 the barrel, of course, more and more people are looking for other energy sources. The high oil price also brings with it the gas and electricity price, which makes power saving more and more profitable. But unlike the Progress Party, I don't want to lean back and trust that the market solves the environmental problems and makes sure that the whole people have a job to do, especially in relation to old industrial communities facing conversion processes. It takes time and it costs money to develop environmental technologies. It is then necessary to have sufficient patient capital in your back. That's why we need, among other things. Innovation Norway. But at the same time, I am pleased that the Progress Party is finally seeing the value of investing in renewable energy. And when the representative Solvik-Olsen hastens to the fact that we are now selling the new stock exchange rocket, REC, I would like to remind you that SV recently promoted a comprehensive Document No. Eight proposals to develop a national strategy to make the Norwegian solar industry world leader. So with all due respect, this is not a new case for SV, this is something we've been working on for years. But of course, it's nice to see that there are more and more people here to countries who get the faith in the Norwegian solar industry. And I think we're facing an industry that can be important to Norway even after the oil and gas adventure approaches the end. Governments have been given new tools in the toolbox after the government change, and he has, as I have said before, several people to help himself in the government college. At the same time, he is primarily responsible for showing how to use the tools and for keeping the orchestra pace. I am pleased that this debate has shown that there are more than me in this room who are concerned with environmental technologies and who see the value of investing in environmental technologies. And I'm sure the Minister of Industry will do everything he can to ensure that the Government is working further on the basis of a strategy to make Norway an environmental nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e330	First of all, thank you for a somewhat fine debate – but I have to say that when I hear representatives from the Right, I don't stop to wonder that the tongue lasts so long. And there weren't many visions of the future that got us to share. The representative Skei Grande asserted – if I did not hear much wrong – that I should have been injured to say that I came to the table. It is considerably exaggerated, I would rather say that the table was very tidy when I arrived. Not much was lying there. Nevertheless, the government’s vision is that Norway should have an internationally leading role in the development and use of environmental technologies. A conscious commitment to environmental technologies can create new business opportunities, including on the international market. It is not that there is a contrast between environmental considerations and profitability. The government is pursuing a stable economic policy and an active industrial policy. If we are to be able to compete internationally and maintain our high level of well-being, we must invest in knowledge, in research and development and in areas where we have a special advantage. Appropriations for research and innovation have therefore increased by DKK 0.5 billion from 2005 to 2006. This will also benefit research and innovation related to environmental technologies. We need to focus on promoting environmental technologies in areas where we have a special advantage. For example, Norway has: large unused bioenergy resources. At the same time, we need a great deal of energy for heating. Although it is the most important form of bioenergy in residential heating, we now see that the use of pellets and tiles is increasing. There have been challenges in terms of both technology and fuel quality, but we now see that new actors are in place to address this situation. It's e.g. establish a Norwegian producer of pellet shale, Bio Nordic. The next generation of pellets from Bio Nordic is supported by Enova and the Research Council. I hope this can be a contribution to a breakthrough in the use of processed biofuels, and especially of pellets, in house heating. The interpellant initially asked questions related to the Mineral Act. The promotion of the mineral law has taken too much time. We are well in the process and are now going to have a discussion with the Sameting to get it ahead of Stortinget as soon as possible, but I cannot say today when it will be. Then I will also show that now the Coast Guard has decided to build a new environmentally friendly gas-powered vessel, and it will also be a contribution to reducing emissions into the sea, and then it will be a contribution to promoting technology for gas-powered vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e345	Then the interpellation debate is on case no. 6ths over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e363	In the autumn of 2005, the Education Committee delivered a unanimous opinion on the 2006 State Budget. There the Ministry was asked to do: «a comprehensive review of State grants to private higher education institutions». In the same context, the Ministry was asked to: ‘come back with an assessment of what would be a reasonable level of State grants in order to enable these non-commercial higher education institutions to carry out their important social mission’. I'm assuming that the Department and the Council of State are running a good process in relation to this. However, it is reasonable that the Storting should also discuss how to achieve greater equivalence in the treatment of private institutions. We're in a period where the annual budgets of youth are expected to increase by 20 pst. In Norway, a percentage of the year-olds apply for higher education compared to countries with which we should compare. In recent years, private colleges have been trained for approx. 10 pst. of the total number of students and candidates. This makes private universities an important part of the Norwegian education system. The private universities have a long history in Norway. Let me give you some examples. The Diacon Home College is a diaconal, private educational institution with traditions back to 1890. The professional focus is health and social sciences and deacony. The deacon home College in Oslo has approx. 1,500 students and 120 employees; in addition, students and employees come to Rogaland College. In addition, the deacon home was the only nurse training approved by NOCUT in the recent evaluation of nursing training in Norway. Another, Queen Maud's Memory College, was founded in 1947 and is one of Norway's oldest colleges for the education of preschool teachers. The school is the only higher education institution in the country that has the primary education of pre-school teachers. It has more than 700 students and approx. 90 employees. A third, Norwegian Academy of Teachers, NLA, was founded in 1966. Schools, such as: Training teachers, has a total of approx. 1 300 students and 100 employees. All three of these colleges carry out important social tasks. They ensure the training of personnel for important types of jobs where we know there will be a need for a significant number more in the years to come. ECON Analysis has found that we need 3,000 new preschool teachers in the time to come. Everyone agrees that we need more hands in the care sector to meet the aging wave that will come. So we need more teachers, more pre-school teachers, more nurses and help nurses. Then it is important that we in the education system use all available resources to ensure capacity. We won't meet the educational policy challenges if we don't include the private colleges. In 2005, the private higher education law was merged with the Law on Higher Education in a joint law on universities and higher education. This was both desirable and joyful. We were pleased that there was a greater level of non-discrimination in terms of professional qualifications and business requirements. A common law for state and private institutions in higher education was the completion of a process to improve quality and provide greater equivalence. It started with the proposal of the Mjøs Committee for a quality reform in higher education, including, among other things, a new degree system and a closer follow-up of the individual student. The bill that was presented was a follow-up to the Ryssdal Committee's position, the New Law on Universities and Universities. The very principle of a common law did not raise any debate. Even in the SV or in the Workers' Party, parties that have traditionally had critical remarks about private colleges in the budget debates, there were major objections. The new law codified the private universities as a professional and fully-fledged part of the Norwegian education system. Private colleges complying with the requirements of the law offer high-quality education. They were subject by law to the same professional quality requirements as State institutions. The decision meant that ownership was no longer a controversial political issue, but focused on quality, both in education and in research. All higher education in Norway accredited by NOCUT is now a single vocational education system, managed with the greatest possible equivalence within a common framework for the university and higher education sectors. It is therefore all appropriate to have a nationally coordinated policy for both State and private institutions, where the regulatory changes take place at the same time for all. This will enable them to assert themselves in the education market, both nationally and internationally. A common and comprehensive framework also guarantees students equal rights and obligations. Despite this, private colleges do not experience equal treatment as real. Among other things, there is an excessive lack of predictability related to the grant they receive from the country. The basic component is unfortunately the balancing component of the funding system. Here, diversity becomes clear. Several private higher education institutions have experienced in recent years that if the educational and research component is to be kept at an equivalent level to the state institutions, i.e. 100 pst. Incentives, the Ministry has had to transfer funds from the basic component. Thus, the percentage share of the basic component in State grants to private higher education institutions has been reduced year by year. In addition, if private universities do not receive their own funding for scholarship positions, such remuneration will also have to be charged to the basic component. The same fluctuations also apply in relation to the research component. It's supposed to be incentive-based, so here, the equivalence between government and private institutions is significant. But there has been some disagreement about how funds for scholarship positions should be distributed. This year, only state and private institutions with accredited doctoral programmes have received scholarships. In the past, many scholarships have been awarded to state universities. Private colleges without doctoral programmes have received scholarships only once. It was the year 2005. Despite the fact that some of the private higher education institutions are in charge in the country in their field of competence, they are largely funded by research funds, such as scholarships, when they are to be distributed. Private colleges therefore have a significant lag behind them. It is essential for all universities and colleges to be able to have a good quality research. It enhances and develops the professional quality of the institution. Furthermore, it is of great importance that institutions have the opportunity to reconcile research and education. Education should be as research-based as possible. Therefore, it is important that private universities be given the opportunity to prioritise research in line with teaching, as tradition has been at our universities. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government refers to the private universities as a ‘addition’ to the public offer. In general, it is important to be precise using terms. It should also apply when talking about the private colleges. The question is whether the private higher education institutions can be described as complementary. The Ryssdal Committee report, NOW 2003:25, just mentioned this issue. Total selections expressed: ‘It has been given clear political leadership that private institutions should no longer be complementary to State institutions, but rather an equivalent and complementary option. Following the evaluation of the sample, it is essential to ensure equal opportunities for private institutions to realise the intention of the quality reform and to take an active part in the national challenges of higher education and research, that these institutions are given financial conditions that reflect more closely the similarity of professional competences and responsibilities.’» There is reason to ask if a school like Queen Maud's Memory, which is the country's largest in preschool education, is a supplement. With its 18,700 students, BI is one of Norway's largest educational institutions. In their core areas of economics, marketing and management, they are the leaders. Or the Faculty of Education, which educates between 70 and 80 pst. by Norwegian priests, is it a supplement or an equivalent and complementary alternative? These schools are conscious of their social responsibility. They know they're doing important societal tasks. We know that we would not achieve our educational policy objectives without them. In the view of the Christian People's Party, these colleges represent something far more than a supplement. They are good alternatives and provide a positive stimulus for the further development of our higher education. We have the same expectations for private and public universities and colleges. We expect good international quality in research and in education. Then it is also essential that we determine the place these private colleges have in the education system. And it's essential that we look at what we can do to ensure a greater degree of non-discrimination. My main challenge to the Council of State will therefore be to ask him along these lines to confirm the role of private colleges in our education system, and then to secure these higher education institutions in an expected economic environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e431	Private higher education is an important alternative to state education and is essential to ensure capacity in key areas. In order to achieve the Government’s target of 10,000 new annual shifts in the care services, we rely on educational provision at the private institutions. In addition, pre-school teacher training at private colleges plays an important role in achieving the objectives of the Knowledge Lift. Many of the private colleges have good professional environments that play central roles in their fields. They ensure diversity among educational institutions and are important contributors to alternative pedagogics. As Lånke points out, common legislation and the same funding system for private and public universities ensure a greater level of non-discrimination between private and state educational institutions. The new Law on Universities and Universities ensures non-formal treatment of all universities and colleges offering officially recognised degrees and degrees. This means that private institutions can obtain the same professional powers as state institutions. In addition, joint legislation is better suited to have a nationally coordinated policy for both State and private institutions, where regulatory changes take place in parallel. Students at private colleges are guaranteed the same treatment as students at state institutions. This means equally stringent requirements for private institutions, including: as regards the rights and obligations of students, the learning environment, the composition of the board and the work of institutions for equality. The establishment of NOCUT in 2003 has contributed to a greater level of non-discrimination between private and public universities. All higher education institutions now have the possibility of being accredited as universities, universities or universities. This means that private universities can also obtain professional qualifications to modify and create new study offers without applying for the approval of NOKUT. So far, the Diakon Home College has gained university status, and the Theologische Menighetsfakultet has gained academic status. In addition, there are currently several private higher education institutions in an accreditation process. In the case of scholarships, they are awarded in the light of each institution's research activity and results. In addition, emphasis is placed on the category of institutions, i.e. whether the institution is an accredited higher education institution, a scientific college or a university. R & D activity and quality are therefore required to determine whether an institution is awarded scholarships and not whether they are State or private. The private higher education institutions with a high level of R & D activity have also been awarded many scholarships. For example, the Theological Faculty of Society has 17, and BI Business College has 25. This is higher than by the majority of state higher education institutions. Of the 30 state colleges and state academic colleges, three institutions have been awarded more scholarships than the BI. In the 2006 state budget, ten new scholarships were awarded to private higher education institutions and private scientific colleges. The funding system for universities and higher education provides a budgetary outlay for performance at private higher education institutions based on the same indicators as at state institutions. Private colleges have the same incentives as government to increase the number of credits awarded in order to obtain a payoff in the funding model’s teaching component. Furthermore, the same indicators provide a basis for disaggregation in the research component of the funding model. For both state and private higher education, the level of basic funding is subject to policy priorities. In determining the State grant, the Government considers it an important task to dimension the various educational provision according to the needs of society, while taking into account the overall policy of the Government. The reduction in basic funding for individual private higher education institutions adopted by the Stortinget in the autumn must be seen in this context. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the grant to private universities. Since 2000, State subsidies to private higher education institutions have increased by nearly 300 million. kr. The increase reflects an increase in activity: the number of students registered at private colleges has increased by 6,058 since 2000 and is now 24,518 students. But the allocation per year. The student has also increased. From 2003 onwards, the allocation to the private higher education institutions increased by 24.2 p.m., while the allocation to the state higher education institutions only increased by 8.3 p.m.. In the revised national budget, the Government has proposed that private universities be strengthened by 4 million. kr. The funds will be allocated to the training of health and care professionals and teachers. In addition, we have proposed to allocate 11.9 million. This will also benefit many private higher education institutions. The size has asked the Ministry of Knowledge to review the economy of the private higher education institutions, on which the representative Lånke was involved, and to assess what would be a reasonable level of government grants to these institutions. We are in dialogue with the Network for Private Colleges on the work around this review. The Ministry will explain the matter in more detail in St.prp. No 1 for 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e450	I thank the Council of State for the reply. I'm satisfied with the understanding that the Council of State shows about the role of the private colleges. According to the law, it has been established quite clearly. I am also pleased that the Council of State refers to the dependence of society on the private institutions and their capacity. It is also positive that the Council of State stresses that many of these private colleges have very good professional environments. I think it's important to bring it to the bottom. I also think it is positive that the Council of State can announce that the allocation to the private higher education institutions has increased more than the allocation to the state higher education institutions in recent years. In that case, it's a step in the right direction. I doubt whether the last year counts in this context, but numbers are not always so easy to get ready for. With the cuts that have come to the last state budget, I put a little question mark on that reasoning. However, what I miss in the articles of the Council of State is that he does not address the supplementary concept used in the Soria Moria Declaration – the emphasis that has traditionally been on it. I think that's a term that we have to settle with. It does not fully reflect the role of private universities and institutions in today's society. So the state council said that it was not the form of ownership that decided whether or not scholarships were awarded. I also allow myself to put a question mark on it. I will mention Queen Maud's Memory, as both the Council of State and I know, as an example of this not being able to vote. Governments know this school as well as I do. It is, together with the Oslo High School, the school that brings up most pre-school students in the country. In the mid-1990s, Queen Maud's Memory College was awarded node status in the pre-school educational field. Now that arrangement is right away, but it underlines the professional strength of this school. It has a highly competent professional environment in the pre-school field, including: with three professors. So, despite having applied for funding in the strategic part of the research component for several years, they have not been granted such a grant. There is no professional or factual political reason for this. I think I could have also mentioned other similar examples. When the Council of State refers to the needs of society and the overall policy of the Government to try to explain the reductions in the last state budget to a number of named institutions, it is a little difficult for me to understand in this context. I ask the Council of State to elaborate on what he means by just this reference.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e463	As I stated in my main post, the funding for private and public universities is the same. That means that the components are the same. But the component that is subject to political assessment is basic funding. It has been the subject of constant political assessments in the Stortinget. The second component, which is also part of this, is the number of places of study. Some of the last government’s submissions to the Stortinget were a cut of 3,000 public higher education places, with which they are still struggling, for this triggered considerable funds that they do not have. This sector is subject to a policy assessment at all times in this Chamber. And I also think that the representative Lånke sees that it must be. It's about dimensioning. You might think it's right or wrong, of course, but our government, like the previous government, has approached this question. What is the starting point is to be treated equally in the components of the funding system. And in this way, the private have been treated in the same way as the public. We have now gone back somewhat in the draft revision that we have presented. But you must not forget the adventurous – I must say – development that private universities have had in financing over the years. In my main post I said that the private have had over 24 pst. growth in recent years, against the public, which has only had 8 pst. growth. If you go a little further, you'll see that as far as the development of the appropriations from 2000 to 2006, they've had a total growth of 80.4 pst. Then it should also be said that they have received more students. It has been approx. 6000 new students in the same period. It says something about the fact that you've always had a review of the economy of the private colleges, which has resulted in significant additions. I believe that the representative Lånke is also well aware of this from his many years here on Stortinget. Now it is not my starting point to say that this money has not come well in the private colleges. On the contrary, my main post was based on our desire for equal treatment. The private higher education institutions represent an important alternative. If we are to achieve our ambitious objectives for more pre-school teachers and more health workers, it is clear that we need the private institutions. Our government does not want them to have safe, predictable and viable conditions. The financial system is, as I said, committed to these too. It has to be accepted that some components are the subject of political treatment, so it will always be, but the funding system as such is not a debate. I think this was the answer to the questions that the representative Lånke raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e476	Norway has a well-developed university and higher education system. It has made it possible for many to take higher education, and it has helped us to have an active competence environment throughout the country. This is not least significant in view of developments both in the public sector and in business outside the central urban areas. During the last budgetary procedure, we gave priority to strengthening, inter alia: Decentralized study offers at Rogaland High School, which is private, and at Harstad High School. This is education in the care sector — education that means a lot to achieve our objectives of more staff in the care sector. The interpellant says that the private universities have had less predictable frameworks and have to a lesser extent been satisfied with research resources. In fact, the growth in basic funding for the private universities was stopped at the last budgetary procedure, but at the same time the Church, Education and Research Committee asked the Minister of Knowledge to go through today's funding model, so that we can understand how it works, and why it is so different from funding for the private universities, for example. better be able to give priority to the higher education institutions that train personnel we know there will be a major shortage in the years ahead. Furthermore, we have discussed the need to provide the universities and institutes with research funding and awarding scholarships. The interpellant points out that the private universities are an important part of our education system, and I fully agree with that. I also agree with the representative Lånke that these are not just a supplement, but a completely necessary part of our education system. But most of the colleges are located in the cities and are not easily accessible on a living in the districts and want higher education near home. It will therefore always be a question of allocating resources, of how much a grant to central educational institutions, and of what a person can allocate to decentralised study provision and to maintaining small professional environments throughout the country. This balance I want to be concerned about, as I think we have to have both. It doesn't mean in any way that I don't see what important job the private colleges do. In this context, one school has been mentioned frequently in this room, Lovisenberg, which is a nurse. I think the Minister of Knowledge should be commended for coming back to the revised budget with more money for this college. However, we have one challenge in the time to come, namely to ensure the quality of the professional studies at all higher education institutions. In addition, we need to regularly return to the higher education sector and assess how things stand there. This applies both to the private sector and to the public sector. In addition, we will receive the evaluation of the quality reform for treatment. It will also tell us how things stand at our colleges. These are discussions I'm looking forward to, and I want to engage in, which I'm sure the interpellant will also do. In this context, we can also work towards solutions both for the good public and private universities. But we will always have to have a discussion about how we allocate resources, and then we need to have knowledge about how resources are distributed. That is why, in conclusion, I would like to say that I am confident that the Minister of Knowledge will return to Stortinget with the information requested by the Committee in the context of the 2006 budget review, on the functioning of the financial system for private universities, and on the basis of which each school is funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e491	On 1 August 2005, as has been said, a new common law for State and private universities entered into force. The purpose of the new law was to provide a common, comprehensive framework for all higher education in Norway. The law recognises that the private institutions are professionally equivalent to the public. It shall ensure that formal equality of treatment between all universities and higher education institutions and that future changes in higher education may take place in parallel between State and private institutions. The law says something about the institutions' tasks. They shall, in addition to teaching and research, contribute to the dissemination of research results and cooperation with industry and other local actors. Universities and colleges have a great freedom to perform their functions, both academic freedom and professional freedom. This is, of course, a freedom under responsibility. During the budgetary procedure in the autumn, the government's cut in the appropriations for the private higher education institutions appeared to be random. Some felt that there was a political antipathy in the government against private school providers that caused the reductions. The interpellant has mentioned some of the institutions that were affected. During the treatment in Stortinget, the situation of the Norwegian Teacher Academy Teachers' College, Norwegian Travel Life College and Oslo Market College was further exacerbated by the fact that the red-green parties at Stortinget further reduced their appropriations. I noticed that the Central Party parliamentary leader spoke to the newspaper on the day of 9 December last year about the cuts to the NLA Teachers' College: ‘There has been a more or less need for cheese here.’ Well, it's possible the Advance Party and the Center Party have a different relationship with the cheese mat, and the undersigned has also heard that one should cut good from the cheese. But what happened to this institution, where the government first cut 1.5 million. kr and their lot traps on Stortinget took another 2 million. kr, reminds me more of the use of axe than axe. Such dramatic cuts that are completely random give little or no predictability to those responsible for the operation of these institutions. There is little comfort in the fact that the government in the revised national budget comes back with the money they took from the colleges that run nurse training, but such reverse operations do not contribute to long-term thinking and predictability. It has always been important for the Progress Party to seek equal treatment between public and private educational institutions. For us, it is of secondary importance who is responsible for the operation, as long as the public has defined the quality criteria that must be met in order to be eligible for public funding and that it is verified that this is being followed up. Furthermore, the Progress Party has called for the Network for Private Colleges, which today consists of more than 20 higher education institutions, to be able to obtain operational resources to promote their affairs to the public authorities in the same way that public schools have their common body. In terms of research, as a result of the 2006 state budget and the proposal in the revised national budget, it is difficult for Norway to achieve the target of 3 pst. of GDP by 2010. Fresh figures from NIFU STEP show that Norway is slowing down in relation to research. But there's a couple of relationships that it's important to notice. Firstly, the scope of the research carried out is very different from the heavy university environments of the regional colleges. Secondly, there is no condition that research and education take place in the same place. Most regional colleges have a centralisation of their research activities and a more decentralised model of education. It is important that an incentive for increased research in higher education is provided through the provision of more research resources to higher education institutions. Today, 88 pst. by the research funds of universities and 12 pst. to colleges. In order to ensure the quality of teaching forces at higher education institutions and to exploit the research potential that lies here, higher education must be provided with more research resources. In addition, when one feels that the private universities are being fed with even less resources for research than the public, it suggests that the nation has an unused potential here. The Progress Party, as I said, wants equal treatment between public and private institutions in this area as well, and in order to achieve our national objectives, we expect the Government to commit itself to significantly strengthening research efforts in the State budget for 2007, and to provide a concrete stepping-up plan on how to meet the growth objective of research efforts with both public and private actors. I noticed that the Council of State said about the private institutions that they were an important alternative, and not just a supplement, and I'm glad. It was also stressed that private universities ensure diversity. However, it is somewhat worrying when the Council of State says that the reduction in the basic grant must be seen in the context of political priorities. So where does equal treatment go? However, I am pleased that the Government signals that it will return to the Stortinget with a clarification of the level of public support to private universities in the context of the 2007 state budget. And then we're going to hope that this can form the basis for also giving schools the necessary predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e530	Private higher education is no new phenomenon in Norway. It has long roots. In some disciplines, private offers have a long and prestigious history. This applies not least to nurse training and to completely central institutions within their field of competence, such as: The community faculty. Through the Willoch Government's proposal for the law on the law on the right to an examination and state grants to private colleges, we received for the first time a single law for these schools in 1986. During the examination, the majority stressed that the prerequisite for support was that schools should keep objectives professional. It is tempting – in order to show that something is quite unchangeable – to recall that the Workers’ Party and SV also, at the time, made a number of proposals that would in practice have contributed to reducing the autonomy of the private universities. In retrospect, it is easy to see that the law gave private universities both increased status and more predictable working conditions. The process that BI has been through during these years is a good example of a raging development. Such developments would hardly have been possible within the public system – simply because the public sector, with long command lines and heavy decision-making processes, will always be more cumbersome and less flexible and adaptable. Another example is the emergence of private higher education services in IT and data processing. The growth occurred at a time when the public system had barely registered business needs for people with broad IT skills. Here, private universities have been able to meet a need that the public, with its offers, could not meet adequately. At present, there seems to be a broad understanding that private universities perform important functions in higher education. The flagships are still BI and MF, which – each in their own way – are a size and have a position within their field of expertise that makes them very special. But the other recognised private universities also represent professional quality — and professional diversity — in a way that has fortunately been widely accepted today. However, we still see a strange look at what could be called red-green reflexes, such as red-green reflexes. the unjustified budget cuts last year. If this was not deliberately ‘struping’ of the private offerings, it reflects at best a major lack of understanding of the meaning of predictability in relation to State framework conditions when operating this type of business. This broad acceptance has now also emerged from the fact that we have a common university and higher education law for public and private institutions, while progressing towards non-discrimination. But this has been a gradual process, and although I understand that impatience is great – not least when it comes to counting out research activities, as the interpellant points out – I am convinced that development is moving in the right direction. I assume, then, that factual reasons govern development, not political dogmas and coincidences. The most important thing is obviously that through NOKUT we have had common criteria for accreditation and quality assessment of both public and private institutions. This is where the quality guarantee for private higher education is – and not that they should offer the same thing as public schools. That's rather the opposite we have to wish for. I am convinced that the best way of continuing growth and development for private universities is to maintain and cultivate the elements that make them different from the public institutions: the ability to respond quickly to new challenges in society and to design untraditional study offers that capture new needs in business and professional life. At a time when society is changing at an ever faster pace, the need for adaptability and creativity that private institutions can offer will be great. The right will be a guarantor of non-discrimination and conditions for private universities to fulfil their role and develop their professional quality. It requires predictability, and it requires goodwill. The red-green government has created the impression that everything is to be ‘squatted’ privately. It is very regrettable and will be met with strong and clear resistance if the direction is not changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e549	It's the first time I've stood on this pulpit – with great awe and, not least, with great humility for the dignity, history and culture associated with it. So let's see what I'm really going to say. If the aim of this debate is to maximise the equality and non-discrimination between private and state universities, there is a fundamental vision SV does not share. One would think that the very point of private institutions is that they want to keep something of their own kind. For SV, state universities and higher education institutions will continue to be the foundations themselves in higher education. They are owned by society, they must ensure equal rights to education and the dissemination of offers throughout the country, and they are subject to democratic public governance. At the same time, we believe that private universities are a valuable complement by helping to ensure that Norway has enough capacity for important education. The fact that the private universities have a basic funding that can be predicted is important. It is also wise for the Ministry to examine whether there are still systemic weaknesses. It was a unanimous committee which, during the 2006 state budget procedure, asked the Ministry to: «a comprehensive review of State grants to private higher education institutions». And the committee asked for further information. ‘an assessment of what will be a reasonable level of State grants in order to enable these non-commercial higher education institutions to carry out their important social mission’. As the Minister of Knowledge had in mind, it is important for the non-commercial, private colleges to be able to train enough professionals in care and care – I think, among other things. in the 10,000 annual works that we will be able to achieve by the end of 2009. Queen Maud's Memory in Trondheim is of course a valuable offer in the education of pre-school teachers. At the same time, there is reason to point out, as the Minister of Knowledge does, that there is already a wide range of equal treatment. For example, research activities and results determine the number of scholarships awarded to higher education institutions, not whether they are privately or publicly owned. It is also reasonable to take into account that private higher education institutions, such as BI, the Faculty of Publicities and the Diaconian Home, are different in nature and purpose. This also applies to the level of state funding, which varies considerably. It should probably be like that too. The level of State grants to the various higher education services should and should be subject to policy priorities as to where the resources are to be deployed. The needs of society must be central. In this context, there are two points I want to make: firstly, the new government is increasing the overall effort in higher education. In 2006 there is a real growth of 4 pst. And secondly, it's thinking about the whole country. For me, it is obvious that the College of Tromsø now receives the first visual art education in North Norway – as a result of political priority. Other good examples are the training of traffic pilots located at Bardufoss, in cooperation with the University of Tromsø, and the support such as: State Council Djupedal's department has granted to the establishment of MIT FabLab in the municipality of Lyngen. It is only through an active state policy that higher education can be disseminated so that it benefits the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e578	There is a reason to pink the interpellant to have an important theme. The question of how we can ensure a greater level of non-discrimination between public and private higher education institutions needs a thorough discussion. It's about clarifying the role of the private spheres in our challenge policy and ensuring them good governance. All the schools need to think in the long term about their bet. It also applies to the private spheres. An example of how bad the precaution might be was given to us in the budget procedure last year. Then twelve selected schools were told that they would be cut into their heads. This happened without any foundation. Such a voteable treatment creates uncertainty as to whether these pillars are included in the overall university and university policy. It is too random to be resolved from year to year through the annual budgetary procedures of the Stortinget. The private spheres depend on greater foresight than that, because we need the private spheres of our country. They not only represent valuable alternatives to public education, but they also help train vital professional groups that are sought by society. We are facing several bets in the years to come, where it will be decided to educate enough qualified people to close. For example, the Christian People's Party took the initiative for a new seniority plan focusing on the content and quality of care for the elderly. Strengthening professional competence is therefore one of the most important strategies to ensure the quality of this service provision. This will pose major challenges for all institutions that train health professionals. For the fall, the school shall start with the Knowledge Lift. This is a very important reform, where teachers have a very central role. A total of DKK 3 billion will be spent over the next few years on empowerment for teachers. This will give great challenges to all institutions that train teachers. So numbers from ECON Analysis show that one in the context of nursery schooling needs 3,000 more preschool teachers. This will pose major challenges for all institutions that train pre-school teachers. NLA, the Diakon home, Queen Mauds Minne and Lovisenberg are all examples of high-quality private institutions that train people to these very jobs. It is crucial that we use all available resources to meet these major challenges. We won't be able to cope with these challenges if we don't include the private spheres. Private spheres of excellence have been formed in recent years. 10 pst. of the total number of students and candidates. It goes without saying that this makes them something far more than a supplement to our education system. We have the same expectations for private and public universities and for high schools. We expect good international quality in research and in education. We expect institutions to be involved in innovation and innovation in our business community, as well as providing insight and knowledge about the challenges we face as cultural and welfare communities. We expect insights into both local and global developments and challenges. Therefore, we need a holistic challenge policy, a challenge policy that ensures greater equality of treatment, so that both private and public institutions can meet expectations with the best possible starting point. A common law was adopted by the Stortinget in 2004, and it has provided the basis for a greater level of non-discrimination between public and private high schools. We now expect this to be followed up in practical policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e595	I think I have to start by correcting some kind of misunderstanding. The representative of the Progress Party was concerned that the Centre Party does not know the difference between a cheese cap and an ax. Then I can assure Gåsvatn that we do, because there are few who are so busy with both forest and food as the Center Party is. But otherwise, there is a lot of reason to take care of when to distribute the money. That's why it's good that we get a review of the funding criteria for the different colleges. Otherwise, I would say that I fully agree with the interpellant in his observation that private colleges are a very important part of the offer in higher education. They are not just an alternative or a supplement to public schools. They are definitely a necessary and valuable part of the education system in our country. In fact, we depend on private colleges to follow up the target of 10,000 new annual jobs in the care sector. These higher education institutions provide training in the subjects requested, inter alia: also in the field of health care. The promise of knowledge also requires more training in different areas. I am thinking here especially of pre-school teacher training. Several of the private colleges have a long tradition and have developed a significant professional and research authority in their field. Thus, it can rightly be said that a number of private colleges, based on their important role in the higher education system, have a significant role to play in society. In the case of scholarships, they are distributed as known in the light of each institution's research activity and results. There are also several other criteria. The point in this context is that there are many different R & D activities and quality requirements that determine whether an institution is awarded scholarships, and reasonably not whether they are State or private. When the Council of State mentions that the Theological Faculty of Publicities has 17 scholarships and the BI School of Economics has 25, these figures are higher than the majority of state colleges. As stated by the Council of State, ten new scholarships were awarded to private universities in the 2006 budget. In addition, it must be emphasised that there is a cross-political consensus that we want more scholarship positions for both public and private evening schools. As mentioned earlier, a joint committee has asked for a review of the state funding of private colleges. At the same time, the relationship between State grants to public and private higher education institutions shall be assessed. I am pleased that the Government is now notifying such a review and that it will be available in connection with the 2007 draft budget. In order to ensure the predictability of existing offers and the possibility of developing new offers for both educational institutions and, in particular, students and employees, a rapid clarification is necessary. This will also clarify and recognise the societal mission of these institutions. I'm recording that the private colleges have a very different degree of state grants. While a large and heavy institution with a wide range of educational services and significant research activity today has 20 pst. State grants, other private higher education institutions have up to 80 pst. State grants. This illustrates the need for a review that ensures predictability and the possibility of professional development and research, which can primarily meet the needs of the labour market for access to skills. It is therefore reassuring to hear that the Ministry is in dialogue with the Network for Private Colleges working on this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e618	The President expects the representative Gåsvatn and the representative Enger to agree that the cheese mat is a Norwegian invention.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e621	In this debate on cheese jelly and cut and ax, my experience is that it was not the ax that was used, but the knife. One likes to use a kitchen knife, it's pretty sharp. I'm not going to draw it anymore. I'll deal with four specific points. One of these terms right here. I think it is positive that we have an open debate on this. But that's a little bit different understanding. The Soria Moria statement speaks about the private colleges as a supplement, the council uses the word alternative, the representative Opheim and even more the representative Enger talks about these colleges as a central part of a natural education offer, while I perceive that the representative from SV is talking about a supplement. The left's view is, to put it very briefly, fundamental in line with Mr Enger's opinion – that we are facing institutions that have important social tasks and that have grown up so historically. That's what gives the natural starting point. I even think that part of the colleges joined the draw-suck when the budget was to be aged, and they joined the draw-suck after the fight for the colleges. That should not be the case in the future. Therefore, it is quite important that the concepts are at least such that when institutions such as several of the representatives have mentioned, such as the Faculty of Association and the BI, cover such a fundamental part of an education offer, then it only does so. I don't think we're going to make this a debate about what kind of words we use, I just think we're going to have that reality description. When it comes to reviewing the funding base, there is an important distinction here. Everyone in the Committee agrees that this should be reviewed. However, the minority, to which the government parties will not join, wanted to see this in the light of the different historical assumptions – also highlighted by the representative Enger – that different grant rates have become such a historical one. I would like to stress from this speaker that the Left believes that it would be fruitful to include the historical assumptions, because this would provide a description of the institutions in two ways: first of their social tasks and, secondly, an understanding of the financial subsidies they have, and how they have been allowed to develop. When it comes to the approach of government councils and government parties to cut-offs based on political priorities, it becomes a bit of a strange exercise when cut-offs affect institutions that train pre-school teachers. As far as I can see, pre-school teachers are a frequent priority group from the government parties. Many of them are simply wanted, and it is currently found that, with the approach you have at the maximum price, you lack both kindergartens and preschool teachers. If you look at institutions that train pre-school teachers, namely the Norwegian Academy of Teachers and Queen Maud's Memory, it's just minimal that's fixed by the cuts that are now coming into the revised national budget. Fine with politics, but I don't think the government parties think so badly about their own heavy priorities that they don't mean to strengthen pre-school teacher education. I just can't get into that. That's why I think these cuts are still after what happened in the year's budget. I would like to assume that if you are now thinking about what you think about the need for pre-school teachers, you should treat both Queen Maud's Memory and Norwegian Teachers' Academy in a different way. Looking at the total cuts for these private colleges, they became at the government's own grip and the government parties' grip in the budget process of 17.3 million. And then you've given 4 million. kr back. That's about. a quarter. Then there are still three quarters that remain as cut. I don't think it's possible to get away from that description. Finally, the debate on scholarship holders: I want to bring in a moment here that goes past private colleges. I believe that if we are to have a fairly well-considered development in Norway about the relationship between research, development of universities and colleges, we need to open a quite significant bag on the research side, and it requires increased appropriations for professional research. Professional research — research on the professions, of which colleges have a lot, both public and private — could provide the basis for these institutions not necessarily having to move about and become universities in order to obtain research funding. The head of the Research Council, Arvid Hallén, took up these thoughts at the beginning of this year. I just want to send those thoughts on behalf of the left. It is very important that colleges are given a chance to become good as professional training institutions. In this way, emphasis can be placed on the research that we can call professional research. In addition to basic research, applied research and industrial research, professional research must be carried out. I think it will be an important step not only in general university and higher education policy, but also in the relationship between private universities and other colleges. I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e652	I think there has been an interesting debate, with many important contributions that have pointed to a number of challenges. I also think it is positive that most parties have underlined the important role that private universities have in our education system. I'm probably surprised that there's such a big difference between the red-green parts – on the one hand, the centre part, which very strongly underlined the positive role that they have in private, and on the other hand the SV's representative, who is still in favour of using the supplementary term. I hope that's not very conscious. This may be very much about the use of words, and a certain amount of maturation is needed to establish what this is. I think it might really be so much about different understanding of reality, and that there's an understanding that can change and gain new insight into. I hope it's going to happen both in the department and not least in the SV. The Council of State went quite a long way towards saying that today there is equal treatment between the private and the public, despite the fact that the Ryssdal Committee and the former government have said that it is not. An overall increase has said that we need to have a greater level of equal treatment. In that it is precisely that there is a different treatment today. The research component, the incentive-based part, and the educational component have to be treated in a non-discriminatory way, but the money has to be taken from the point of view of achieving this. I am aware that the state colleges have also had similar problems applying the necessary research resources, but there is no denying that it is the cuts on the basis of the pain point. As long as it becomes the balancing item, it means that the quality of education at these institutions — despite increasing student numbers and more money as seen — gets worse and does not correspond to the mission they have been assigned by society to take care of. Finally, I would like to stress that some of the value of the Norwegian education system is precisely the diversity that private individuals contribute to. From the outside, Norway has a modest educational environment compared to many other countries that have a completely different flora of different higher education environments. It's important that we fence around the little value diversity that we have. To sum up in the end, I hope that we can agree that it is important to look into this. I hope that the process now under way in the department will be positive with a view to achieving greater non-discrimination. The cut-offs that have arrived underline that there is a lack of reliability and predictability in the framework conditions of these institutions. It doesn't help that the same thing is true of others. There's some of the things that I think it's important to stress, that impregnation is hard to relate to. Let's do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e663	The system of funding for universities and higher education provides budgetary compensation for the results of private higher education, based on the same indicators as for state institutions. Private colleges have the same incentives as government to increase the number of credits awarded in order to obtain a payoff in the funding model’s teaching component. Furthermore, it is the same indicator that provides a basis for disaggregation in the research component of the funding model. When I underline this, it is because I would assume that there is enough misunderstanding in this debate. You're always talking about having the same level of non-discrimination, but the system treats equally in the components that exist here. Historically, there is a difference between how these appropriations have been made. That's probably right. This also applies to the State appropriations. However, it must also be borne in mind that when discussing the private sector, there is no way to discuss the private sector in isolation, for the state universities have also been subjected to cuts over the years, for example. in basic funding for places of study, as the previous government did many times. That means that if you want to view this as a whole, as we do, there's a basis for saying that there's a non-discrimination. Of course, we will come back to the Stortinget with the mission that the Stortinget has ordered us to make an overall assessment of what will be reasonable in terms of state subsidies in order for the non-commercial schools to carry out their important social mission. This means that we are in a process with the private colleges in this regard, and we will come back to the Stortinget – as previously announced – in the budget for the autumn. There is no basis for – let me make my last comment – to say that they have used axe or cheese kegs in private colleges. Over the years, these have had a better financial development than the state higher education institutions. In the period I referred to myself, they've had a growth of 24.3 p.m., while the state has had 8.3 p.m. It shows, if you look at the actual budget figures, that the increase for private colleges has been significantly greater than the number of students to say. This means that, for different reasons, this more money has been allocated. I'm sure there's been good reasons for that. Historically, they may have been too low, but this does not mean that there is a basis for – as several of the speakers today have said – that they have had less resources. On the contrary, these colleges throughout all budgets, as far back as I have figures in front of me now, have received more money than the state colleges. This means that there is a need for a slightly more audacity in the use of language related to this. We've looked at this the way I've been briefing on. We will come back to Stortinget with a review of this, and we will then of course add into the premises that Stortinget wanted us to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e672	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e690	In the current year, we show that it's been 100 years since Henrik Ibsen died. This has been an amazingly exciting experience. So far, we see a number of events on the initiative of institutions, associations and organisations at all levels of society. Norway also has some other great artists next to Henrik Ibsen — some international names appealing to an audience beyond our borders. Of course, we're talking about names like Knut Hamsun, Sigrid Unsset, Edvard Munch and the person we're going to talk about today, Edvard Grieg. In 2007 it is 100 years since he died, the background that Griegåret 2007 is now on the bed. Edvard Grieg was all his life attached to Bergen city, and it is therefore natural that the initiative comes from Bergen. However, I believe that there is a broad consensus that the marking of Edvard Grieg is a national issue, and that the state is providing financial assistance and with the resources of the state apparatus for the rest of it. The Bondevik government first offered a commitment of 2.5 million. kr and clear signals to support orchestras or other institutions that would engage. This commitment must be seen in the light of the fact that the plans and the organisation had at that time come relatively short. The municipality of Bergen has followed up the work, and now has an organisation and a promising framework for the programme in 2007. Should it be possible to implement the 2007 Griegian in the format necessary for the proper appearance of the label, it is likely that the economy of the project should also be strengthened. This is necessary in order to obtain the volume needed to allow the other Norway to participate properly. I am thinking about other institutions on the orchestra side and on the education side, and of course also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We should be able to expect them to take this into account. Some additional crowns at the bottom will provide good synergies in relation to significantly increased resources overall, as these partners will, of course, assist each from its side. I am aware that the Griegår 2007 has applied for additional appropriations from the state, which I hope can be met. In the context of the revised national budget, the right will initially propose an additional 2 million. kr, with signals of additional funds in connection with the State budget for the autumn. In addition to the financial contributions, it is of course important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also use the Grieg Year, perhaps especially for those countries where Edvard Grieg has a high star. At the 150th anniversary of the birth of Grieg, we had important markings that we've seen in retrospect had a high level of viability, perhaps especially projects carried out in German schools at primary and secondary schools. There are projects that I think you can again tackle, bring on and make use of. Otherwise, it's the signal that former government councillor Answerstad Haugland gave about direct support to institutions that would participate, also an important matter to follow up. It is clear that here we are talking about music institutions, the major orchestras, and I am not least thinking about the educational institutions in music – the conservatories in Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger – all of which have very good resources and very good actors who will be able to play in capturing Grieg's music with a new angle and in a new context. The impact we now see of the Ibsen marking this year, where many actors across the country are taking over Ibsen's texts, should be an interesting matter, also in terms of how we are going to handle Grieg's marking. Norway has a strong music environment, and here you can get a lot out of it. Not least, I think it is important to think that this should be directed at young people. Norway has a fantastic base of young musicians, all of whom should have a relationship with Norway’s leading composer over time, namely Edvard Grieg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e709	I share the inter-pellant's views on the unique position of Greek with both a Norwegian and an international audience. The 150th anniversary of the birth of Edvard Grieg in 1993 was very successful and received considerable attention in Norway and abroad. I therefore see it as both natural and positive that the municipality of Bergen wants a marking of Edvard Grieg 100 years after his death, in 2007. I can assure the representative that I believe that the State should contribute to this marking in a more comprehensive way than the previous government provided. The question of State participation must also be considered in the light of the fact that the Ministry receives many requests to initiate or contribute to the preparation for the marking of historical persons in the field of art and culture. As everyone knows, we are in the middle of the Ibsen year 2006, to which the state makes a significant contribution, but there are several important markers in the coming years. I will briefly mention that in 2008 is the 200th anniversary of Henrik Wergeland's birth and 100th anniversary of Olav H. Hauge's birth and by Geirr Tveitt's birth in 2010 is 100 years since Bjørnstar Bjørnson diedin 2013 will be the 150th anniversary of Edvard Munch's birth and 200 years since Camilla Collett was born I believe there is a great deal of consensus that the State should and should help to identify people with a background in Norway who have gained national and international cultural and social importance, both nationally and internationally. The question is to what extent and in what way. At the Edvard Grieg marking in 1993, the department contributed 6 million. NOK 24 million of a total budget. kr. In addition, the Ministry took part in the governing body. A review of the markings in the last 10 years shows that there has been a slightly different practice with regard to the size of the State grant and the role of the State in the practical implementation of the markings: To the Ivar Aasen year in 1996, 100 years after his death, the department gave a grant of 1.75 million. kr, and a foundation was responsible for its implementation. At the 150th anniversary of the birth of Alexander Kielland in 1999, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research contributed half a million dollars each. At the 150th anniversary of the birth of Arne Garborg, in 2001, the department contributed SEK 600 000, while a foundation was responsible for its implementation. At the 200th anniversary of the birth of Magnus Brostrup Landstad, in 2002, the Department and the Council of Culture contributed a total of NOK 675 000, while Kirklig Kulturversted and the Landstadinstituttet in Seljord were responsible for the implementation. The Ministry has not participated in the planning and implementation of these markings in addition to providing financial assistance. It is only at the Griegmarking in 1993 that the Ministry has played a role in the implementation beyond funding. In other words, the usual size of the Ministry’s contribution has been between 500 000 and 600 000 kroner. The higher level of the grant for the Ivar Aasen mark must be seen in view of the fact that that mark was also a mark of the new Norwegian mark as a target form. Decisions on the persons to be marked, I believe, must be taken by the Ministry on a case-by-case basis and after assessment by the relevant professional body. When the Ministry finds it appropriate for the State to contribute to the markings, it will designate the institutions or organisations responsible for the implementation, and together they will find appropriate organisation. It's in line with the arm's length principle. I also assume, as a general rule, shared financial responsibility between the State and the initiators. I believe that these rules will ensure a clean and consistent procedure. It is such a practice that is used for the upcoming markings of the 200th anniversary of Henrik Wergeland’s birth, in 2008, the 100th anniversary of the birth of Olav H. Hauge and Geirr Tveitt’s birth, in 2008, and the 150th anniversary of Edvard Munch’s birth, in 2013. The initiators of these markings are mainly the professional environment and home-storage municipalities. The Ministry does not otherwise participate in any of these markings but has anchored its implementation responsibilities locally or in relevant professional institutions and environments. These will also be the beneficiaries of State grants. The marking of Edvard Grieg and Henrik Ibsen stands in a special position. The planning of the Ibsen year has been ongoing since 1997. The Ministry is not directly involved in planning but has appointed a national committee composed of experts and representatives from the institutions concerned. The Committee’s mission is to plan and coordinate the 100th year marking in 2006, while agreement has been reached with the Norwegian Folkemuseum to establish a limited liability company, Ibsen-year AS, for the implementation responsibility. The marking will include almost 3,000 small and large events worldwide. Over the period 2002-2006, the Ministry contributed 37.4 million financially. kr. According to the Ibsen Committee, the cost of the implementation year is 52 million. kr. The planning of the Greek marker in 1993 started already in the autumn of 1989, i.e. four years before. The labelling included more than 1,400 small and large concerts and events in Norway and abroad. And as I said, the department contributed $6 million. SEK of a total cost of 24 million. kr. The municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland contributed 13 million. kr. The mark was organised as a foundation with a council, board and board of directors. The Ministry appointed members of the Management Board and the Board of Directors and then Minister of Culture to chair the Foundation. I look at the initiative from the municipality of Bergen as very affordable, and have noticed that key actors, and especially at regional level, follow up. Of course, it requires the state to do the same thing. The overall financial envelope for 2007 is 12 million. kr. The amount of the State grant must be seen in conjunction with it. Having said that, I would like to positively assess the application from the municipality of Bergen for grants in addition to the 2.5 million. kr which is already intended to be marked in 2007. Recognizing that the Edvard Grieg marking in 2007 is to the greatest extent a national issue, I see it as very natural that the state participates in an economic grant that has a worthwhile scale. For reasons of principle and practicality, the State should not be directly involved in the project organisation and its practical implementation. With regard to the final amount of the State grant, I have to get back to it in the 2007 budget, but will, as underlined earlier, already give signals of a larger state grant than the 2.5 million. kr the previous government gave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e760	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he will have a positive vote on the application from Griegesteret 2007. I hope that in the further work he might also be directly addressing them, could suggest a little more what it is about, as it is currently going on, and 2007 is not that long. If you want to plan these things, maybe it's okay at least to have an idea of what to stick to. I think the council drew up an interesting perspective in relation to all the markings we're facing. It's really a long line, so we'll get enough things to do in the years that come. But let me say that to the extent that anniversary markings or death markings are of value, they are because we're able to renew the impression of the art that these people have stood for. It's of value if we can create new grips, so that we can make sure that the growing family renews its relationship with the cultural heritage they represent, and to the genuine contemporary expression that artists of the format we're now talking about represent. That's why it's important that we keep it in focus. It is clear that there will be different amounts and different sizes. In the case of people like Munch, Ibsen and Edvard Grieg, we talk about artists who relate to a large international audience, who naturally invite us to use the channels we have out there and who naturally invite both to take actors to our country and to bring our actors out into the world. It is clear that costs need to be seen in the context of this. I also agree with the basic starting point of the Council of State in terms of an arm's length distance principle also in this context, i.e. that the Ministry as such should not exactly govern how this is to be done, but that it has different types of organisational forms that address this, i.e. initiative makers. There are important incentives and important measures that not only strengthen the economy but also strengthen the professional element and interest in it. But it is important that the ministry is offensive in relation to showing interest, in relation to talking about it, in relation to taking an interest in how different state institutions or state-funded institutions actually want to participate. So, the fact that you're interested, the fact that you're actually contributing, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is signalling participation also means something in relation to getting a lift, as we see now with the Ibsen marking.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e771	It is clear that we should both mark ourselves and express ourselves in connection with the Grieg marking in 2007. But we have to take into account that it's not that long since we had an anniversary, in 1993. That's why it's kind of related to what we actually did when we had a budget of $6 million. SEK in State grants – total 24 million. kr for anniversary events. We're going to contribute more than the Bondevik government offered. A separate company is now established to be responsible for the Greek marking. They have applied to the Ministry for increased grants, and they will receive a positive response. Although it is the Grieg marking that will stand for the various events and different measures and do the artistic assessment, we still need to get a kind of description and a table of contents of what kind of marking event you really want, so that we know what we're granting, not at a single event level, but as a kind of overall. That is why we have invited the new company to come to the department and tell us about their plans, and then we will respond in budgetary terms to the application that the municipality of Bergen has formally sent to us. What they have described so far is a year to be marked by three main profiles: «Humanist Grieg», the artist's role in relation to human rights and freedom of expression, what they call «Sampleren Grieg», i.e. the use of «samples» from nature and culture to create new art, and «National Grieg» – «Traditional Grieg» and the national debate. It's all interesting profiles, but there's very little in these applications about how you're going to mark the three profiles. We will have ample opportunity to talk about this – even in the case of any further allocation. But then it's quite right, as the interpellant says, that it's just as important that our other permanent institutions – perhaps especially in Bergen, but also elsewhere in Norway – use the year 2007 to pay special attention to Grieg, so that it's not just a label year budget that is used for this kind of thing, but that the ordinary budgets in the cultural area also take into account to some extent that 2007 is going to be in Greek's sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e780	It was to a large extent interesting to hear the Council of State outlining what we have been using cultural crowns in the last hundred years – not that I can see that it is particularly relevant to the current interpellation. The councils show that it was the Grieg anniversary in 1993, and I was so lucky to be present at that anniversary – I lived in the heart of the anniversary, you might say. He says then that we spent a lot of money on that Grieg anniversary, and that it's only a few years ago. Yes, it may be, but fourteen years is an entire generation of children and young people. So those who were babies in 1993 are 14 years old today. There's something to think about. Edvard Grieg was one of the greatest Norwegian composers, perhaps the greatest over time. He is known in both the country and abroad – this little man and this great composer! I guess it's not a single grown Northman who hasn't heard one or more of Grieg's works. This is our cultural heritage. This music is something we get tears in the eyes of when we are outside the Norwegian border, and we feel so extra Norwegian and so extra proud when we hear Greek music played abroad. But Grieg is not just a composer in the pile of composers, he is a symbol of what Norwegian cultural heritage is. Perhaps the most important thing to ensure that this symbol remains is to ensure that we facilitate conditions in such a way that no one will doubt that 2007 is in the sign of Greece, both within and outside the borders of the country. It is important to take care of and – not least – to familiarise children and young people with this aspect of cultural heritage. I know that very many composers have taken inspiration from Grieg – Bartok, Ravel, Säverud and others. Also in modern times have rock groups, such as: The Who, let himself be inspired, and his music is used in movies, such as: “Lolita” – so he has a wide audience. Different instruments from the public can be used to ensure that most people get access to his music and get acquainted with the most central of his works – and get acquainted with the man who lived in Bergen and had his composer cabin on the Troldhaugen. The Progress Party programme says that we should secure our cultural heritage, and that of course also applies to the part of our cultural heritage that we get through our ears. Of all the millions of dollars that go to culture in Norway every year, we should be able to allow ourselves to spend some of them on just such a year to ensure Grieg and his music an eternal life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e795	I'm glad that the interpellant has taken up the theme, so that we can have the opportunity to discuss the Grieg marking. But I am equally pleased that the Council of State is so clearly signaling that the 2007 marking is a national issue, and that the State will contribute a larger grant than the 2.5 million. kr that the previous government was willing to put on the table. I experienced the successful anniversary in 1993. What made the anniversary so special was that it made Grieg alive for children and young people. Children and young people were given the opportunity to experience Greek music — they were also given the opportunity to dictate, to dictate on seagoing matters. Markings like this can thus give us the opportunity to learn the works of the artists, but also to bring the artist into our time – and bring to renewal, as the interpellant said. That is what the initiators of the municipality of Bergen, with the support of Hordaland County Municipality, have plans to do. This means that many will find this marking interesting, important and topical, not just in the West, not only in Norway but far beyond the borders of Norway, as was the case in 1993 with the 'Grigeg in school' programme in Germany. Grieg took root in his own identity, while his music was from his own time. He was an important ambassador for the idea that national culture is changing under the influence of outside impulses. Then he also traveled out to learn. Thus his thoughts go straight into today's debate on cultural diversity. That's why the Grieg marking can and will mean something in relation to our understanding of how art evolves, that is, in response to what is different, the unknown. That is what can become an important topic under the National Grieg vignette. Last Friday I was at the Raftohuset in Bergen at the opening of an exhibition with drawings of Czech Jewish children during the last world war. The vast majority of these died during the war. It was quite natural for the young, competent musicians who opened the exhibition, to play Grieg's music, because they said that Grieg was occupied with human rights. It is the second aspect that will be highlighted in 2007: the theme ‘Humanist Grieg’. Grieg was a champion of freedom, democracy, justice and legal certainty. He was concerned that the art should be made available to everyone, not just the privileged. He can tell us that art and artists have an important role to play in the fight against discrimination, exclusion and intolerance. Then the organizers will cooperate with the Rafto Foundation, Chr. Michelsens Institute and other key actors. The third theme is the Sampler Grieg. Grieg took root in the culture of people, nature, but gave it his expression and carried on the music. Grieg has been the inspiration of Norwegian jazz musicians, who have inspired folk music into today's musical expression. The theme «Grieg and the Sampler» is a challenge for today's artists in electronic music and sound art to take from the sound material Greek was inspired by in Norwegian music and Norwegian nature and folk culture. So one of the directors is a musician in Smokesopp. It shows that the Grieg marking is important, topical and interesting for today's musicians, for today's audiences and hopefully for educational institutions. There are plans for more markings to celebrate great Hordaland artists, as the Council of State stated – artists who have meant something nationally and internationally, among others. Olav H. Hauge and Geirr Tveitt. When actors locally and regionally want to mark these great artists as significant internationally, it is precisely to mark them as international artists, but also to mark them as such as this would have a regional political role. So it's that markings will bring artists into our time, be inspirations for today's children and young people, and it's said that we get the opportunity for rich experiences, to dive into and plunge into the music, poetry, which they gave us. For these good reasons, it is important to raise Grieg in 2007 – bringing and renewing his music and thoughts into our time, such as: inspiration for important debates today, alongside giving us opportunities for good experiences. The same applies to Olav H. Hauge and Geirr Tveitt in 2008. That is why the State has a responsibility, and that is why the State takes responsibility, as the Minister of Culture signals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e816	It's great that the representative Olemic Thommessen addresses this topic in the interpellation today. Edvard Grieg is an artist who speaks to our time, and is among Norway's most important ambassadors abroad. A hundred years after his death, Grieg still has important things to say to today's audience and artists. It has been since 14 years since he was marked, and most children and young people who met Grieg in school that time will have left the school today. In 1993, a major marking of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Edvard Grieg was carried out in cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the municipality of Bergen. The programme was comprehensive and noted at both national and international level. It was implemented domestically approx. 1500 concerts, 25 tours directed by the Rikskonsertane for a total of 100,000 children and young people, approx. 2,400 projects in schools and kindergartens, plus stage performances, conferences, book and phonogram publications. It was also a comprehensive programme abroad with the corresponding type of programme. The 1993 anniversary also provided long - term effects for Bergen and Norway. Among these are: Programmes related to dissemination to children and young people have been used as a model in the cultural school system, the school programme in Germany has continued until today, the establishment of the International Edvard Grieg Company, new construction at Troldhaugen in 1995, an international water exhibition on Grieg – 2000 to 2005 – and Norsk Hydro funded a very successful five-year research project at Troldhaugen, Griegforsk, until 2003. The total budget for the year 1993 was 24 million. kr – Ministry of Culture, the municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland contributed in excess of 12 million. kr. Griegåret 2007 has so far received 2.5 million. kr from the country. Although the municipality of Bergen has been creative when it comes to providing funding, cork interaction between culture and industry or collaboration with Stavanger 2008 could cover all the costs. This is why it is important that the state beggars, so that the Grieg year gets it shaped like it eats it up. The Griegian War 2007 provides opportunities to preserve the heritage and tradition of Grieg, while at the same time renewing and updating this heritage. Greek's music was the result of his time, while music is often defined as eternally genuine Norwegian. As Edvard Grieg himself said, «Thi As a modern artist, the Universal stands as my goal, or rather, the Individual: If it becomes national, now, it is because the Individual is national, and it is then no burden.» Gree their sources of inspiration are many: They stretch from poetry and history to human life – in all the horrors of life. His life's work testifies to how man's weight is reflected in the music. National political and religious ideas merge with his intense experience of nature. For Grieg, art and life were daring together in a dense pattern. Now it is 240 years since a small crowd of music enthusiasts established the musical company in Bergen. The small «house orchestra» has since 1765 become a modern and traditional symphony orchestra with an ever-new triumphant home and outdoors. The last time in the fall, Harmony has received brilliant critics, including internationally, of its re-recording and re-interpretation of Grieg. Building a solid infrastructure for good art and culture takes time – in not necessarily 240 years, so often several decades. What we invest in networks of good experiences in art and culture in one field, we can get back many times in a completely different area. In the next decade, Bergen will be able to build not only on a symphony orchestra and the party games – which are so closely related to the history of harmony – but also on a national theatre scene, an ensemble for contemporary dance and opera activity, and a great selection of composer and humanist Edvard Grieg through Griegesteret 2007. Grieg wanted to make a music festival in Bergen. In the beginning, his ideas met with much resistance from both rockers and close friends. But Grieg got what he wanted. 26 June 1898 opens the «Musikkfesten i Bergen», Norway’s first music festival. The event, which lasted for a week, was a great success. I hope the Government will help make the Grieg Year equally successful and a national cultural promise. This means that the State contribution should be increased so that the project can be implemented as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e845	It's important to raise and stare at the artists we have, and we've had, here in the country. Anniversary celebration helped focus on the works that artists have stood for, and the art form and the period before which they have been active – and also often on the properties of artists themselves. Grieg is among the foremost artists in the country over the years, and therefore we in the Central Party are pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that he shares his wish and yet promises a stronger bet than the previous government offered. That has been said very well in the debate on why we have reason to celebrate Grieg. I'm not going to repeat all of that, but I want to raise my eyes to something. Looking at an anniversary celebration isolated, one sees that even though it often has limited value for the artist himself, at least in some cases, it has great value for society. A society that shows that artists are appreciated is educating new artists. If we bring out those who have acquired artistic skills beyond others, and give them status – yes, then we are tempted to strengthen our society with artistic expressions. It makes life richer for all of us. Hopefully, this will give us more opportunities to celebrate the anniversary of great artists in the future. We're happy for the government's bet from the Center Party's side and we're looking forward to the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e858	Fortunately, we have a lot of historical people within the field of art and culture that have meant and still means a lot to us as a cultural nation and as a society. This means that in many countries the country should and should participate in different celebrations and markings for these persons. The Greek marker next year has opened such a selection. It is therefore gratifying that the Government will contribute to something that is an important national mark, and that it will increase its involvement with other actors, as the Minister of Culture has now stated. I'm dividing 100 pst. the description given by the Progress Party here by Grieg and his significance for Norwegian cultural life and for Norwegian society. That's why I'm excited if the Progress Party will join in and facilitate us to create a new Grieg, a new Enlightenment or a new Munch in our further cultural effort. Together with Ibsen, Grieg is one of the most important people for us as a cultural nation, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, there is an affordable measure from the municipality of Bergen and other actors, who are initiators of the campaign next year. Hopefully, next year, the marking will be as good and successful as the 150th anniversary of Greek birth was in 1993, although not in all areas. The government commitment outlined by the Minister of Culture will probably contribute to a good and worthy mark. There are, as the Minister of Culture pointed out, many celebrations and markings that take place in the years to come, and it will certainly require state participation to a greater or lesser extent. In order to achieve that, we are not least dependent on having a cultural budget with a volume that makes it possible to prioritise culture as a policy area high enough. In this context, the work of the Government and the Grand Duchy on the cultural promise is important, also in order to be able to contribute to such important markings and celebrations as the Grieg marking in 2007 – and other celebrations and markings in the years to come. In my opinion, therefore, the essence of the interpellant is that it is actually a budgetary issue – a matter of our ability and willingness to prioritise culture. That is why I look forward to the debate we are having in the autumn, when the economic frameworks are to be added – to the joy of all who are happy in Greece, and to the joy of all who are happy in Norwegian cultural life, or else.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e871	I notice that the representative from the Workers' Party is talking half-way about the very genuine contributions of the Advance Party in the field – it is in the extension of all the pepper Progress Party received for the opinions we had in connection with the Culture Communication, where we clearly said that we saw it as an important task to bet on preserving Norwegian culture. Edvard Grieg is very central in this way. We have noticed that the Council of State Giske's new field of action is the foreign cultural expression. In response to the challenge of the representative Johnsen, I would say that there are hardly any more Griegs in Norway of the Workers' Party's bet on Turkish folk dance and Indian guitar playing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e879	I noticed that the representative Johnsen thought that the essence of what we've been discussing for an hour now is that it's a budgetary question. He's right about that. That's because time starts to go pretty fast. The type of events that are natural for a Grieg marking are events that all require a certain planning time. This is about big institutions that need to have signals about what they're going to do. As you can see, it is legally late to come back in October and give the framework for what is to be done in January. Now all the government parties in turn have been up here and thought that this is a great case, and so I could appeal to the government parties to participate in the Right's proposal to actually mobilise 2 million. NOK extra to this now. That would give you a bottom plank. It would provide a starting point for making the necessary arrangements to get this done properly. The amount that Bondevik raised must be seen in the light of how far the planning had come at that time. Last year there was no organisation that could handle this. There were also no program sketches, as we have now seen. The programme outline now presented is very good. It acts as a framework, and the citizen of a good programme which would be perfectly sound in granting increased appropriations. I therefore hope, if the government parties do not now agree to give any extra money in this round – and that is probably no reason to hope, that is. One can always hope that the Council of State will give so specific signals to the Grieg label in 2007 that it will be possible to get to the events that are Grieg worthy. It is true that there was a large mark in 1993 in connection with Grieg 150 years. I see that as a strength, not as an argument for doing so much less now. Rather, one should consider that of this is the thing to harvest. Here's the experience to pick up. I mentioned, for example: The effort made in relation to the schoolwork in Germany was an important initiative, on which it must now be built. Otherwise, I agree with the heart's representative Sande, who is generally approaching the intangible cultural heritage. We spend a lot of money keeping peat on the roofs. We could use a little bit more for that too, but we're not as capable of caring for the intangible cultural heritage. Here I also think the Progress Party has important signals to give. So I hope we can get some more concrete signals about what this is about, so that we can get ashore in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e896	There has been a touching consensus in this debate, and this is how it promises a good mark on Griegesteret in 2007. That's a good point, as one of the speakers had, that those who are Russian in 2007 had not even started school when we celebrated Grieg in 1993. In this sense, it may be a good opportunity for a new generation to learn about our most important composer, who is also well known beyond Norway’s borders. Now we don't need a year for every artist in Norway, because we should mark them every year with many activities. Of course, that happens too, but we're going to do well, with more appropriations than the Bondevik government provided. I don't think this needs to be a partisan issue. It should not be overemphasized that Grieg wrote his big piano concerto in A instead of in H! This is something that we can cross-politically agree on: to mark our greatest composer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e905	Case No. So 8 is done. The size prepares for feeding. The President will believe that there is an advantage to the representatives occupying their seats so that those responsible for the composition can see who is present and who is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e913	We then go to voting in case No. Three, four, five.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e921	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2 by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and the Left, on the proposal No. 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the aviation plan for the years 2007 to 2010 during the autumn of 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e948	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider possible measures to remove any obstacles to commercial competition in domestic aviation and to make appropriate proposals to the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e963	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the form of a law or regulation, to require airlines on Norwegian routes to publish regularly their cancellation statistics for the reason of the cancellation per. take-off for a certain period of time.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e1049	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right and Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to award the concessions free of charge and without any commitment period, and without any geographical breakdown.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e1073	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to award the concessions without a ten-year municipal commitment and otherwise subject to the same conditions as for concessions elsewhere in the country.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e1143	Referral case No It is proposed that 247 be taken as a matter of urgency. Paragraph 28, third paragraph, point (d) of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is to repeal the decision of the Grand Duchy on 22 May of this year, because the majority of the Grand Duchy was not expressed through this vote, because of a mistake in the exchange with which the Grand Duchy of Great Britain has been made known by letters from the High Court and the Grand Council of the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-2.ana.ud219e1191	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
