ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e120	The head of the police department, Bjørn Borgen, who just bowed down for the president, is about to retire after 40 years, so this was the last meeting he bent in. [[Applause]] The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e125	On behalf of the representatives of Karin S. Woldseth, Olemic Thommessen, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to promote a Document No. 8-proposals to improve conditions and framework rates for the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e130	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e133	On behalf of the representatives of Olemic Thommessen, Trond Helleland, André Oktay Dahl, Martin Engeset and myself, I would like to make a private proposal to restrict the state restrictions on the sale time of beer and other alcoholic beverages, etc. at the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e138	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e141	On behalf of the representatives of Olemic Thommessen, Bent Höie and myself, I would like to promote a Document No. 8-proposal for an extension of the opening time in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e146	The representative of Vigdis Giltun will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e149	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I am delighted to propose the establishment of OPS projects – Public Private Cooperation – related to future hospital expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e155	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e158	On behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Per Roar Bredvold, Tord Lien, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I will make a private proposal for the necessary changes to create the necessary trust between the population of predatory areas and the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e163	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory period until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e179	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2933]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e202	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2934]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e219	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4-12 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[Fotation, see page 2934]] At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that case No. 13 is dealt with together with cases 4 to 12 – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e339	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 125 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines after the main speakers of the parties, the parliamentary leaders, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and up to three lines after the other members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e348	Some time ago, the newspaper told about 90-year-old Gudny from Oslo, who was thrown out of the hospital because she was not sick enough to stay. She was cancer-surgery, paralysed half her face and looked and heard bad. This is not how the Workers' Party wants it. We don't want older people who need help to be treated like this. We don't want older people to be throwing balls between hospitals, homework and short-term hospital stays. We don't want our older schoolchildren and our schoolchildren to pay the price of taxes to those who earn the most, as they had to under the previous government. That is why we asked for trust in another policy, where we choose better communities than new tax concessions. A year isn't long. During this year, however, the management of Norway has changed. The Stoltenberg government wouldn't give $6 billion in new tax reliefs, as the Bondevik government suggested. On the other hand, we spent NOK 5.7 billion on strengthening the elderly and school services in municipalities. This means that half of the municipalities – according to the NRC – have strengthened care provision, one third have strengthened school provision, and one third have expanded cultural provision. That doesn't mean that all problems are solved. It's a long way to go. But in five years, we will have 10,000 more people in the care service, continue the development of nursing homes and improve the quality of services. That's why we're strengthening the municipalities' economy next year. We're on our way to better care for the elderly, as we're also on our way to full childcare. Also, this autumn, desperate parents will experience that their children will not be accommodated in kindergarten. That's why we've increased the rate at which kindergartens are built. It is expected that 13,500 new places this year. New funds will be filled in the revised budget. The price has been reduced – this means that even more people will have space. That's why we're going to build on next year. We're going to achieve the goal that families of children have been waiting for for years. We also asked for trust in another important change: joint solutions rather than privatisation. One of the most important qualities in Norwegian society is that everyone goes to the same school — regardless of whether their parents have good or bad finances. Last fall, this system was heavily threatened. The Right Party and the Advance Party provided for a large-scale privatisation of the school. In Troms, the construction of private secondary schools could tear away the foundations of important parts of the primary school. We've stopped that. We have chosen another course, where we also strengthen our common school and not create a school that distinguishes them from us. Norway is different with this government. We also see this in the workplace, where the Right Party and the Advance Party had joined forces to weaken the Working Environment Act, to allow more use of temporary staff instead of providing people with permanent work, to provide more use of overtime and to allow longer working days without overtime. It has also stopped – because we want a different society, and because we are guarding the rights of workers, as we do in this revised budget, where we guarantee the right to full pay under sickness, even if costs increase significantly. When the previous government left the offices, unemployment was significantly higher than when it joined. They reacted too late and too weakly to the high unemployment. On the other hand, the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed to cut the unemployment allowance by up to NOK 20 000 per year. years. It's turned around, too. This cut in security has been transformed. Freedom has been greatly reduced. The growth of employment is historically high. We're on our way to full employment. Working for all is the most important measure of providing better living for those with poor finances. At the same time, it is important for society that we use the resources that live in each of us in the best possible way. Then we must avoid sending those who need help to get into work, and those who need clarification between work and social security, on an eternal tour between various public offices. Dagfinn Højbråten took important steps to build a new work and welfare management. Now we're going to travel the construction work. At the same time, we have to give it substance: a policy that helps those who have the most difficulty, so they get dignity, so they get work, so they can do themselves. Therefore, the Government will present a new policy for work and integration. When the Stoltenberg government changed the budget last fall, half a billion extra was added to help those who have the most difficult. The self-proprietary share of healthcare was reduced. New steps are being taken in the revised budget. We're removing the proportion of physical therapy that the previous government introduced into the budget. We are on our way to a new policy for those who have the most difficulty. Employment policies also require policies for the development of business. The previous government confessed to an industrial policy after the Doris Day doctrine: what happens, it happens. The toolbox is empty, said the Minister of Industry. This government wants a more active industrial policy. One of the first things it did was to strengthen the instruments for shipping. Work has been started on a national travel strategy. The development of oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea is underpinned. Appropriations for transport have been increased. There are great unsolved needs here. The implementation of projects is too poor. When you build a new traffic bridge in the Drammen without simultaneously building a tunnel to accept the traffic, it is obvious that there is something wrong. Our ambition is to follow up the national transport plan. New steps are being taken in the revised budget. Here, too, we're on our way. We are also moving towards a more offensive district policy. Where the previous government cut so hard in the regional policy instruments that it created uprisings into the right, we now see a government that radiates the will to use the whole country. That doesn't mean that the problem is simple. But if you want to find solutions, you have to start with the will to find them. It didn't have the previous government. Where the previous government started a decline in the graded employer’s fee, we now see that it is reintroduced. Where the previous government is frozen in its inaction in the North Region policy, we now see a clear profile, a clear strategy and clear communication with the outside world. We have a clear foreign policy. In short, Norway is managed in a different direction from one year ago — with stronger communities rather than tax centres, with a focus on collective solutions rather than privatisation, with strengthening workers’ rights rather than weakening, with an active enterprise and district policies and with a clear foreign policy profile. Each step can be small. But the direction is clear. After four years, we'll be a completely different place than we'd still be with the interaction between the Right and the Advance Party. And what's the alternative today? The former government parties? No, no, no. Rather, the attitude to the revised budget tells the opposite: lack of agreement between the former partners. The party of progress is today the obvious opposite of the Government, not only as the largest opposition party, but above all as the political alternative, not only with the right's desire for smaller communities, no, much more: a policy in which the welfare society is transformed into a minimum society, each of which has to be guaranteed a minimum right. Then you get to pay the rest yourself. It's about the school. This applies to the care of the elderly. These are the pension schemes. It is a policy for differences, not a policy for community – a policy for systematic privatisation, where private hospitals and private schools are invested, and where the school for people is given less resources because the money is transferred to schools for those who can pay, and where hospitals for people get less resources because the money is transferred to hospitals for those who can pay, a policy for a tougher working life, where working life is seen as a market in line with the purchase and sale of goods, where you have to negotiate the wage yourself, be grateful if you get a temporary job, and where the strength of the trade movement is gone. This is increasingly apparent as the alternatives. Then you can ask where the Progress Party's proposals for different bets in the first half of the year are left in the revised budget, where the dimension is something quite different from what they have sold out through individual proposals in the Stortinget. And then the centre of Norwegian politics has to assess whether it's this society they want to be in and build, with greater differences and smaller communities, or whether we're going to build together on the qualities that lie in the Nordic social-democratic model, with great equality and with a strong community. This is the model that, according to the United Nations, has made Norway the world's best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e403	I note that the rapporteur on the matter spends a lot of time talking about other parties and other parties' policies, or at least his impression of how other parties shape their policies, rather than talking about what he might need to talk more about, which is what you are actually involved in. But it's possible you don't want to talk so much about what you're actually into, because it's very little that you're doing about changes in the revised, and despite the fact that we've been through a lot of consultation rounds, and we've got quite a lot of input from organizations that think that now the government and the government parties should make some changes in society – you see that there are clearly some shortcomings. Then the question is, how can it be that a whole process can now be revised without changing anything about it? Does this mean that the government parties are not responsive to what organisations and citizens actually come with of wishes and needs, as we have now heard for a few months, rather than just going for what the government has presented in revised proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e408	It can sometimes be a little daring to decide before you hear the article, for what to say in the line change. This is obviously what the representative here must have done. For my post was just fixed on: What has the new government, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party actually done? What have we used this year for? What we have spent this year on is, of course, to create a new direction, because a policy other than that of the Progress Party has been with the previous government about, a policy that I just described, that we are moving towards a better care for the elderly, towards full child care, the end of the privatisation of the school, the cessation of labour rights, towards full employment, towards better welfare policies, towards a more active industrial policy, towards a more offensive rural policy and with a clear foreign policy. We listen to what people want, we listen to the signals that come, and then we form a policy that helps to create a better society, a society different from what the Progress Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e413	The enthusiasm seems to be enormous in the Workers' Party and the other two government parties to increase taxes, as well as for the cab tax. The rapporteurs of the Labour Party applaud, report VG, when they are allowed to impose even more property taxes. The former head of the financial committee of the Workers' Party, for the period 2000-2001, Dag Terje Andersen, considers that the property tax must be increased. Right does not want any extension of the social property tax, which also affects those who have the least. Does the current Chairman of the Financial Committee agree with former Chairman Dag Terje Andersen that the cab tax should be introduced and that the property tax should be extended?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e418	The Labour Party is for municipal autonomy, and we, like the parties behind this government, believe that property tax should be a voluntary tax, and it should be a tax determined by the municipalities. However, municipalities must be given the opportunity to assess how it is to be organised in each municipality. And then we see that there's a lot of difference between how you choose to align with using property taxes in the different municipalities. If I don't remember very well, the representative from Kristiansand comes. Kristiansand has had right-wing rule for decades, and if I don't remember completely wrong further either, Kristiansand has chosen to have property tax, because Kristiansand has believed it was important to have it as part of the funding of the welfare offer to be in the municipality. This is how we see that a number of the Right-Handed municipalities have chosen to have property taxes as part of the financing of their services, because they believe that it provides a better offer to the population living in this municipality. I believe that the Right in Kristiansand should have the opportunity, in the same way that they could have chosen something else. But we're going to leave that to the municipalities, and they have a rational framework for that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e423	At the end of the contribution to the head of the Financial Committee, I felt that we were almost at Soria Moria Castle. It was a violent description of how much you'd had in these few months you've been sitting, a description I'm not quite sure that the people around agree to the same degree. I'm convinced that there's someone who doesn't feel like they're going to Soria Moria Castle, and that's the disabled in this country. The government cuts in revised at 172 million. kr just for this group, a group that I thought the government parties had actually wanted to help to get more of them to work. But the truth is, and Schjøtt-Pedersen, who attended a hearing, knows that this is going to go beyond quality. This will lead to those affected being those who are the most in need of assistance. Why does the Workers' Party want such a development for these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e428	Let me first assure the representative that we see Soria Moria. We're basing the policy of Soria Moria, and we're moving towards the goal that was set on Soria Moria. With clear and firm steps every day during this first year, we've come a long way, while recognizing that there are three years left of the period. Then there are many tasks, many values and goals, about which the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party stand together. One of them is the desire for a better offer for those with a working disability. I note that the Government assumes that there will be 1 000 more posts for disabled workers in the budget now being presented, revised budget, that the composition of the various measures based on labour market considerations is such that there is a somewhat lower consumption, but that the majority of the Committee has stressed the need for flexibility so that we can ensure the best possible offer for those who need more stringent measures, even if we do not reach the target set.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e435	I listened to the committee's chairman today, every word, and I have to admit that I was put a little in the same mood as when a few years ago I heard the terrible TV broadcasts from Baghdad where this information minister, Comedian Ali, cursed a reality that everyone saw was not there, and the bullets in the streets and the dust fell down. What is it that Schjøtt-Pedersen sees as no one else sees, when his own, to say the least, serves in the Newspaper, Arne Strand, wrote a few weeks ago: 'A six-month period of political opposition'? The newspaper, which wants his government so well, wrote: "The red-green government is in a rather stable rental." They have delivered "six months of reform." My question, which has an element of being a council, is: wouldn't the chairman of the committee be served to be a little more humble and a little more honest about this government, and perhaps also the previous government, as his own president, who is behind him, is in a sparkling good reflection in the evening post today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e443	Perhaps the representative Sponheim would also be more deserving of being reflected on what is actually happening in terms of the political direction. And maybe you don't see the forest for just trees when you look beyond what happens in the individual areas. Because it's not like that, for example. The representative Sponheim in today's attitude gives the Government a solid dose of credit for the effort being made in relation to the economy of the municipal sector? And isn't that right, what I'm describing here, that it makes it possible to give a better offer to the elderly and to the schoolchildren than would have been the case if the budget of the government he himself put in had been founded? Is it not true that the privatisation of the school has been stopped? Is it not right to stop the deterioration of the Work Environment Act? I record that, among other things, in Norwegian trade union movement, massive support for the changes made. Is it not true that a much more offensive north-eastern policy has now been adopted? Maybe we're going to assume that behind these individual trees there's actually a forest that tells us a different direction than the previous government. Maybe also Sponheim will recognize that there is a forest that can be quite good to be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e450	Initially, I would just like to say that I thought the representative Schjött-Pedersen should stick a little more to the truth when it comes to the differentiated employer fee, and also added that it is a cross-political agreement to get back a most differentiated employer fee. What I was thinking of here is related to the fact that the head of the finance committee is often very busy with assessments of economists. Not long ago, Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel of the North said that the change of government would lead to a change of 0.5 pst. higher interest rates. Then he created the same use of money, but that's that one used more in the public sector and less for tax and tax relief than what the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, did. My question is: does the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen agree that the financial policy arrangements for the red-green government will result in higher interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e459	No, I do not agree that this will mean a higher interest rate, mainly because this government is a majority government, which, as we see in the review of the revised budget, makes the outcome of the budgetary procedure predictable, and that in this way we avoid the uncertainty that the Progress Party has contributed to creating during budgetary discussions in the Stortinget. I also stress that the development we have had in interest rates is entirely in line with what the previous government described in the national budget they presented in October. What the representative should be much more concerned about is that the person who pursues monetary policy, the governor of the central bank, has been at the hearing in Stortinget, where he has been asked about the consequences of the budgetary policy on which the Progress Party is based. He has unequivocally stated that it would lead both to higher interest rates and to cost growth, with the loss of thousands of jobs in Norwegian business as a consequence, and the loss of housing for many young families, who would be struggling with a higher interest rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e471	In recent years, there has always been some tension in the treatment of the Stortinge. This time we must consider the revision, before we come to today's debate, almost as a single big guess. The Financial Committee has consulted more than 20 organisations. A number of recordings have arrived – in my view, a number of good and reasonable recordings. In spite of this, the majority of the parties choose not to change one ear. Well, to be exact, they change by giving an extra grant of NOK 700,000 that a total financial committee is behind, but that's all of the changes. For those who want to influence Storting's decisions, it's quite clear that you're going through this entire election period before you can again have the hope of being listened to if you have good recordings. Well, enough about the process. The Progress Party accepts that the revised budget should just be a revision of the budget. So it's not here that we're going to rematch all things. Since the Storting adopts budgets for only one year at a time, the unforeseeableness is great enough if it is not to be made even more unpredictable by the review process. For the Progress Party, it is important that we now use the opportunity to address some problems and challenges that we face, and that we do not wait another six months before we can increase resources for important areas of society. Firstly, the Government can tell us that from the adoption of the budget in November last year until today, oil revenues have increased by about a quarter. NOK 21 billion. So we've got a significant increase in revenue. Nevertheless, the government chooses to boast that one does not allow the Norwegian people to benefit from any of this extra income. The Progress Party believes that most people should also notice that the state's wealth has increased, and we want to use approx. 7 billion kroner of these extra incomes. Despite this, the Progress Party proposes that transfers to the oil fund amount to over DKK 320 billion in the current year. Secondly, the Progress Party believes that the job of correcting all the essential shortcomings in society must start now. We therefore propose that it be granted approx. NOK 1 billion for our health business. Our hospitals and companies have huge deficits. We can see in the media on a daily basis that one company after the other reports a large cut in patient treatment. Something like that should be totally unacceptable in one of the richest countries in the world. The Progress Party wants to strengthen the possibility for more patients to receive treatment. The second major investment that we believe is absolutely necessary is increased investment in transport. We have aftermath on our highways. Only maintenance corresponds to approx. DKr 14 billion. This means that with today's appropriations, a better standard will only be achievable in several decades. We have a aftermath on the county road network of over 10 billion kroner. Many other countries understand the sense of investing in a well-developed road network. Unfortunately, we do not see the will of today's government to make a real effort. The third effort on our part that I want to make is increased appropriations for the police and more funds for the realisation of more prison sites. In a good country, it should be a prerequisite for people to feel safe. Now that the state receives many more billions than was foreseen just a few months ago, the Progress Party is clear that the population should also receive lower taxes and taxes. In particular, we have pointed out that there should be a reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel, so that the pump prices that people and businesses expected when the state budget was adopted actually become a reality. In an oil nation, this should not have been a big discussion. The drivers and the business community should experience that Stortinget reduced the fuel and diesel taxes when the oil price rises and the state makes good money. Let me conclude by saying a few words about the use of oil money. In its presentation of the draft revised budget, the Government highlighted the choice of dealing with the same framework as adopted before Christmas. It's possible the government thinks this is positive. But I think most people hardly feel this as positive. We have a rich state that just gets richer. People experience shortcomings in a number of areas of society, which should be unnecessary. The use of oil money is not an exact science. But that the government's proposal on the crown is the only blessing, I put a big question mark on it. The Progress Party primarily uses our proposed investment appropriations and tax reliefs. It is a healthy and balanced use of a few more oil billions that will contribute to more efficiency, more patient treatment, lower transport costs for business and the public sector, better framework conditions for industry and other business, increased information on crime and a safer everyday life, a better school, necessary resources for research, lower taxes and taxes – short and well-needed investments that we believe should be taken into account in order to be able to grant now in the review. I refer to the proposals made by the Party of Presidents, either alone or jointly with other parties, in the vote, as well as the proposal distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e497	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e502	During the examination of the budget last autumn, the Progress Party proposed spending 27 billion more than the other parties in the Stortinget. After the budget was implemented, various drops of proposals have been made that amount to NOK 40 billion. It is now, at the examination of the revised budget, that we are dealing with changes in the budget line as adopted. I can't see that I can re-found these proposals that the Progress Party has been struggling with during the last six months. Is it that it was just a moment's interest to them, or are you not able to see the whole of an economic arrangement, because it is impossible in sum to defend? Then I hear that the Progress Party is talking about investing in investments. Yes, but it was also so that in the increase in the budget of the Progress Party last autumn, four out of five kroner were used for increased operations. Is it not, then, that the device of the Progress Party is primarily against tax relief and increased operating costs and that investment is a rather modest part of the overall increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e509	The proposals put forward by the Progress Party as so-called Document No. Eight proposals now for months, which have been dealt with by the Storting, and which are down, we actually see no reason to cover up when the Storting has already voted them down. But we have promoted a number of other Document Nos. Eight proposals to be discussed in this Chamber today. Those proposals are covered in the revised version. Then I would like to say something about investments, but let me first say something that I did not mention in my post, namely that very many professional economists now fully agree with the Progressive Party's idea that we can avoid anything more for investments rather than for operations. If the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen goes into our draft budget for this year, he will see that we have also provided a large cut in operating costs, especially in the state and other public sectors and administrative costs there – large cuts of several billion kroner, combined with lower taxes and taxes. So the Progress Party is not a part of the operating expenditure, we are also cutting off some unnecessary tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e516	With all due respect, reporting doesn't keep exactly what the representative from the Progress Party said right now. It's quite obvious that the representatives have gone to a progress party school where you've learned from Carl I. Hagen that in opposition you can spend the money many times. So when I meet progressive party people all over the country, they come with the whole pile of suggestions and say that if we actually get the chance to implement it, we're going to do all these things. They're not saying that if we had completed this four-field motorway here, we would not have suggested any of the other four-field motorways that have also been proposed here on the Stortinget. It's actually not like that. I would like Leirstein to figure out and describe to me how much all of these proposals cost, for overall it amounts to well over 40 billion kroner. The numbers I've seen are 50 billion dollars, while here in the revision, the puzzle comes $8 billion. Is it true that the representative does not have the courage to show the overall proposals of the Progress Party to the people, because it would simply destroy the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e523	The progress party is taking a great deal of distance from the claim that we want to destroy the Norwegian economy. I note that even in the government party SV there are increasing numbers of people who agree with the rhetoric and proposals of the Progress Party regarding some more use of oil billions. I have heard that we are talking about our Document No. Eight proposals in the last few months are said to cost DKK 40 to 50 billion, as the replicator himself claims. I have seen a calculation from the Workers' Party on that amount. A lot of the proposals we have made are not calculated by the department, and so it's a claim that it costs so much. In our 2006 draft budget, we have promoted and will also come back to the 2007 draft budget and promote the inclusion of a number of good proposals for which we believe the Norwegian State should grant money. So we're going to get back to that. But all of our proposals that are down, we cannot ensure that they are covered by the revision, when the Storting has said it will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e530	The representative, Leirstein, was concerned that most people should be given the opportunity to get some of the increased oil revenues that the state now enjoys. Then I thought maybe I should try to move the Progress Party at one point: does the representative Leirstein think that the world's poor is part of the definition of people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e536	Of course, the world's poor is also most people. If you had seen the proposals of the Progress Party, among others. in agricultural policy in recent years, it would be seen that there is some party engaged in free trade and to drop world poor farmers to the Norwegian market, it is precisely the Progress Party. It's a policy we're going to pursue, and we're looking forward to Christian People's Party's support for major, important changes in Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e541	I think the Progress Party has to take the goal of keeping order in their own calculations, so that they get the whole thing going together. When I asked for the word, there was something that might raise their eyes slightly beyond all the money they're talking about. The setting of the revised national budget reads as follows: ‘These members believe that a responsible and long-term management of oil wealth must focus on maximum economic growth.’ In a historical light, some of us believe that such a one-sided focus on economic growth is both small and materially and internationally quite selfish. In the center part, we see that growth is not consuming more, but managing better. What we need is soon to find out what the Progress Party wants with Norway. Where is solidarity with countries that are more difficult, and where is solidarity with the next generation? Can the representative describe slightly the main points of the project to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e554	The concept of solidarity can, insofar as it is also linked to what we have been talking about in the previous row, to the poor of the world and to agricultural policy. I expect that I and the representative Lundtigen will disagree, but we will have to challenge that later on. What does the Progress Party want with Norway? The Progress Party will spend some more of the oil money we get in, for good investment for most people. Focusing on economic growth is actually important, because it is precisely through economic growth that one can afford more and get better well-being, which I hope the representative Lundtägen also agrees with. I have had the pleasure of being in several debates with Lundtägen where I record that he and the Zenterpartie are on the loose, namely agreeing with the Progress Party that we must now be able to invest something more in better welfare in Norway, now that we have the opportunity to do so through the wealth that Norway experiences. So I'm looking forward to the Center Party slipping into important, big questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e563	It is true that we are now discussing a revision of the current year's budget. In spite of this, the Progress Party is still running in a known style. The expenditure will be increased strongly, by nearly 2.3 billion kroner in addition to the government proposal. Revenue must be cut by close to $4.6 billion. As a result, a new 6,8 billion dollars will need to be covered. The party of progress is giving full gas to economic policy, and the risk of damage is very high. The vast majority of professional economists think so. In fact, the central bank manager was on the same track when he met the finance committee on 22 May. My question is therefore: does the representative of Leirstein never think that the policy of the Progress Party will increase interest and put jobs at risk, to the greatest harm to the people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e572	I now experience that the interest rate goes up during the day without the Progress Party having its hand on the steering wheel. In the Progress Party, we're concerned about how we're going to use some of the extra income we're getting. The Progress Party is committed to reducing taxes and taxes, which will provide more efficiency and better framework conditions for business. In particular, in the light of all the Norwegian excise duties that actually put Norwegian jobs at risk in competition with the rest of the world, the Progress Party is the party that goes ahead and proposes to cut those charges, while the government parties say that they should come back to this until the autumn. I find that more and more trade union economists are in agreement with the Progress Party on the assumption that we are using it on investments and on getting lower taxes and taxes. That's exactly what the Progress Party is doing, so I'm not worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e584	It is gratifying that the positive developments we have seen in the Norwegian economy continue. Growth in the economy is good. It makes it possible to extend well-being. Unemployment continues to fall. It creates security for many individuals. Now it is the Labour Party-dominated government that is responsible for this positive development to continue, and that we do not enter the same negative spiral as the last Workers' Party ruled, with increasing interest rates, stronger crowns and higher taxes, with the negative consequences it has for many families and for the jobs, especially in the competitive sector. The revised national budget shows that we have a government that is more concerned with symbols than with reality. Retorics still appear to be more important than policy-making. What was supposed to be a government that would trade rather than negotiate now seems to be a government that is paralyzed by arguing. With two exceptions that I will come back to, namely the proposal to introduce cabin taxes and the proposal to liquidate private pension insurance, the problem is not what the Government is doing in the revised national budget, but what the Government is not choosing to do. Instead of using the good times to invest more in value creation and tomorrow's well-being, the Labour Party-dominated government chose to cut off the nutrition research for Christmas, and into the summer they cut off basic research. Right will create a society with opportunities. That is why we propose to invest more in research, more in knowledge, more in infrastructure — yes, more in the value creation that will ensure tomorrow’s well-being. The right is concerned about creating opportunities for everyone. That is why we are promoting a number of proposals to give people who fall out of the labour market a new chance. We're proposing to allocate 50 million. kr to expand the school’s provision of homework, which will in particular help children from poor homes. We're proposing to allocate over 200 million. Health, psychiatry and responses to alcohol. There are two proposals in this setting that will have major consequences for many people. The Government proposes to introduce house taxes by extending the possibility of collecting property taxes. I believe in the Workers' Party and SV when they talk with enthusiasm about the new cottage tax or this beautiful treasure, as Heikki Holmås called it on Wednesday. I believe in the Workers' Party and SV when they believe it is unfair that people with large houses do not pay property taxes. However, when it comes to resolving one injustice, the proposals that will create new injustices, namely those that will affect ordinary people with very common incomes and with very common pensions, are promoted. It's not those who sit with the big lodge palaces who fear the cabin tax, but it's the many pensioners, teachers and nurses who, through a long life, have saved themselves to a cabin. The second proposal, which will have a significant impact on many, is that the Government proposes to remove private pension savings in Norway. The right is not finished with this matter. Private pension insurance is one of the three foundations on which the pension agreement is based and the Right is part of the pension agreement. On Tuesday, I challenged the Minister of Finance to respond to the consequences of removing the annuity tax exemption. On Tuesday, the Minister of Finance couldn't answer. Yesterday, TV 2 could give us an example of the consequences of the government's policy. A traffic damage, which is paralysed from the neck down, got an insurance sum of $8 million. kr. This means an annual return of approx. 400,000 kroner. After tax, there are 300,000 dollars left. With the Government's proposal, this person will be taxed at an additional NOK 90 000 per year. years. 90,000 kroner less to live on per. years is the consequence of government policy. I hope that the Council of State today will take the extended hand that the opposition gives to the Government, namely, by looking at the proposals to remove the tax advantages of individual pension insurance, IPA, and the property tax exemption for annuity. These are proposals that have major consequences for many individuals, and it is no longer fairer to introduce increased tax on savings for the many people who depend on it in our country. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Right is promoting alone or to which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e610	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e615	The right is in a new situation in the Stortinget – squeezed between the Progress Party on one side, which is the largest opposition party, and which wants to drag it even further to the right, and on the other side the central parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are clear opponents of such a development. I notice that the Right opens up for closer cooperation with the Advance Party. While the Progress Party is very clear on its influence and role, the Christian People's Party is also clear on the opposite. I noticed that the leader of the Christian People's Party in the Newspaper on 12 January was very clear and said that a further approach to the Advance Party is unmistakable. On 9 May he followed up by saying that the political distance and political priorities between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are so different that there is no basis for government cooperation. I notice that both the Vice President of the Christian People's Party, Hareide, and the leader of the Left, have spoken about the same thing. How does the Right view that the Right place and development should be, squeezed in this way between two different directions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e622	It almost seems as if Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is worried that the four non-socialist parties would be able to create closer cooperation. If the chairman of the committee had read through the opposition's proposals, he would see that the four non-socialist parties were united on far more proposals in this position than the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre succeeded in the four preceding years. The right is concerned with designing our own policies. We are committed to creating a society with opportunities for all, and we are committed to designing reform proposals that we are ready to implement after 2009. In the meantime, we want to use time to create a better cooperation climate between all four non-socialist parties. And Schjøtt-Pedersen also knows very well where the limits of the Right go, especially in relation to the Progress Party in economic policy. But at the same time, I record that we are moving in the same direction in many areas, including: in the case of a more offensive and forward-looking industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e629	I see in the remarks that the Right, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, joins the Government's main objective of economic policy on work for all, fair distribution and sustainable development. They also stress that a strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for achieving these objectives and that a commitment to Norwegian business must be a key pillar of economic policy. I think that's good, and I end up with that. I believe that the representative, too, Mr Sanner, agrees that different sectors in Norway face different challenges and that there must also be consequences for the use of instruments. I refer in that context to the commitment of former Minister of Industry Brande to the Norwegian woodworking industry, and his commitment to Elkem in Meråker. My questions to the representative Sanner in this regard are: What active instruments do Right have to ensure good, targeted framework conditions for the Norwegian power-intensive industry? And are right-wing supporters of the introduction of an industrial power regime that improves the framework conditions for the Norwegian power-intensive industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e637	It is a little strange that a representative of the red-green parties asks questions about industrial policy, when one belongs to a government fraction who believes that there is no need for a toolbox in business policy, but can handle a jewelry box. We have seen very clearly in the last year that what was going to become an active industrial policy has become a passive industrial policy. In the context of the revised national budget, the Right proposes to grant more than 100 million. SEK for nutrient research, including: travel life. This means a lot to the specific sectors such as the representative. was inside. It's not like the Right is against an industrial power regime. The point is that our government, like many governments in the past, investigated the possibility of doing this with ESA. We got the same answer as the previous Central Party Minister of Energy when the Senter Party agreed to wind up the industrial power regime itself. I wish the representative every success, and then we will see when the proposals are put before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e646	I always find it interesting to read budget proposals and to look at the reality of those places where the Right Rulers, to get an understanding of what a Right Society would be like. It is not difficult to form a picture from both the statements by the representative Sanner, what has been in the newspapers in the last few days, and the proposal that lies here and that we are dealing with today. So in right-hand Oslo, babysitting cows are bigger than ever. At the same time, there have been fewer sick homes for the elderly. Then my question is very simple: is it that it is the unemployed, through cuts in labour market measures, families with children, the elderly and the sick who have to suffer in order for Jan Tore Sanner to have the opportunity to provide the taxes he wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e653	I don't think the representative Holmås could have read the Right Budget proposal. The reality is that we are promoting many proposals to give people who have fallen out of the labour market a new chance. Among other things, we are increasing. the number of job-impaired action places, with 1000 places. We are promoting proposals to give children at school, especially children who come from poor homes, 50 million. extra NOK in homework. In this draft budget, it is not the case that the right is promoting many proposals for tax relief. But we are opposed to the Government's proposal to increase the tax on savings, which I have documented through my post affects many individuals, among others. traffic damage which has been awarded large non-recurring insurance sums. We also know that the Supreme Authority manages money for orphans — often through annuity. I think maybe SV should look at the consequences of their proposals for the groups they are concerned about, among other things. the proposal to increase the tax on savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e660	The right is often concerned about the way the current government uses the budget. They believe that this is somewhat more expansive and will lead to an increased risk of interest rate increase. The representative Sanner also expressed concern about the government's ability to manage the economy. At the same time, the Progress Party is included in the bourgeois option that wants a shift of power in 2009. And many places in this setting also add up the four games. How does the representative, Sanner, who is responsible for a responsible economic policy, think that it will be possible to work closely with a party that would then put the house and home at risk in order to use one of the most widely used terms in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e667	In my post I found out that the last time the Workers' Party crashed, we were inside a negative spiral with higher interest rates, stronger heads and higher taxes, such as: affected families and enterprises in the competitive sector. I'm afraid we can get into a new such spiral now. But I hope that the Workers' Party will remain steadfast this time, so that the Workers' Party will continue a responsible course in the future. The representative of Aasen Agdestein also knows very well that the Right has some very clear boundaries in terms of cooperation with the Advance Party. We showed that in the last period. The reality is that, through cooperation in the Stortinget, we were able to adopt budgets that provided for a gradual reduction in interest rates and that improved the framework conditions for firms in the competitive sector. There are probably some areas on the right that can compromise, but with regard to the core, namely the responsibility of economic policy, the representative Aasen Agdestein knows that there is nothing to give, because we are concerned about what it means for both our families, businesses and our jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e674	The central party agrees with the Right that there are enormous challenges in industrial policy. More and more sectors in Norway are becoming exposed to more and more brutal international competition from countries that have completely different wage and labour conditions, environmental standards, etc. It is clear now that it refers to the Right that the time of business neutrality is over in business policy. It's interesting to hear that it's not going to be right against reintroducing an industrial power regime. My questions are: Will this joyful reorientation from the Right also mean that there will be a joyful reorientation with regard to the companies that are needed to realize an industrial power regime? Is it also so that the Right will accept that State power should be a full-time public company, so that we can use State power as an instrument to secure an industrial power regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e681	I'm a little worried if I've enjoyed the representative Lundtigen too much. Let me rather reply as follows: we clearly share the reality that our companies face increasing competition from the countries around us. Then it is time to focus more on nutrient research. The time has come to invest more in basic research. The time has come to bet more on the school. But I record that the representative Lundtigen is in a company where you don't see the need to have a toolbox in business policy, but finds it sufficient to have a jewelry box. I am not quite convinced that this is a situation that Lundtigen feels comfortable with, but we may have the opportunity to discuss it later today. In the case of an industrial power regime, my answer is that we'll see what the government comes with. I have registered that a State Secretary from the Workers' Party has been out there and said that it is not certain that we can do that, because it may happen that ESA is putting the foot down. The representative knows that previous governments have worked offensively and focused on getting this done. But we're waiting for this and we're looking at what proposals are being put on the table. However, in the case of an offensive industrial policy, the Right is in the front row.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e690	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e693	I am so incredibly happy that we are the ones who run the country – and not the right side. We get more people at work than we would have had if the right-hand side had been running. Unemployment is falling and falling, and it has to go further down in order to get young people, the disabled and the unemployed into work. We're going to have multiple kindergartens. We've never had a bigger babysitting, and more people can afford to have their children in kindergarten. And that it's more than that right-hand side would have done, there's actually no doubt about it. It's just to look at the municipalities that have the longest queues – Oslo, Stavanger and not least Bergen – and to check which people run in these cities, you'll find out quite clearly what the country had looked like if the right side had been ruled. We get lower fractions than if the right-hand side had decided. Illness tax is a tax increase that affects the sick. But the right-hand side never tells people that their taxes are financed by higher taxes on sickness and cut into social security. Now we're removing the proportion of physiotherapy treatment, because such a propensity is incompatible with a goal of reconciliation between people and the goal of an inclusive working life. We spend our money on combating homelessness and getting more professional measures, which should be organised so that those who receive measures are given measures that are best suited to their return to work – without over-scaling the price. The joy of mastering and the benefit of society defends quite high expenditure on such measures, and is more important than reaching the goal of the number of measures at millimetres. These measures will be proposed in the context of the poverty message coming from the autumn. We are betting on environmentally friendly conversion of the car fleet and of the fuel consumption. The Swedish's enormously successful bet should be the goal of the work we're going to do. We're betting on hydrogen cars and getting started using environmentally friendly fuels. We will return to a more extensive conversion to the harvest. We're moving closer to the goal of free education in school. The law says that the school should be free, but all those who have gone to school in recent years, or who have children in school, know that high school today is not free. The effort on digital learning material – as we have proposed – is more successful than you think. You've been smarter and smarter than most people in this room might understand the range. Those of us who have interrupted a study — and thus are semi-skilled robbers — but who have once again been a snowfall in higher education institutions this spring have seen how incredibly effective digital learning material is being used in higher education. If we can get something similar to this, in high school, we'll be much closer to the goal: to apply new technology in a way that creates much more effective learning. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to say that there are three aspects of development that I think are worrying right now. It is worrying that sick leave is increasing, and that the cost of the good health pay system we have is thus increasing. This means, first of all, that more people are ill, and that society is therefore missing out on their resources – in addition to not being able to work themselves – but also taking money from other efforts we want to make. In addition, this is an indication that, even with the changes in the work environment law that were essential to us – we were able to reverse the brutalization of working life to which the right-hand side had submitted – more people are being pushed out of work. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken initiatives against the social partners in order to be able to combat this more strongly. The second concern is about what we debated here a couple of days ago, that too many people are gradually starting to get too big a loan and will get into trouble if interest rates go up. Many do not take into account the fact that Norway’s Bank is adding up to an interest rate increase in the coming years. It's going to be a problem when we see again that it's going to be a debt victim – then we'll see that this is serious. That is why I am very pleased that the Government is now able to introduce a fixed-rate loan into the House Bank over ten years. I noticed that the students are already out complaining that the study loan is not included. My third concern is that while Norway is going to laugh, it becomes even tougher for the people sitting at the bottom of the table and who feel that they are left on the platform when Express Norway – where most people are with it – goes past the station. It's going to be awfully important for us to show that, in the context of the budget for the autumn, we can do the job of taking the people who are the poorest, on that train – which is the Community Norway we want to build in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e722	Most have recorded that the political rhetoric of the Swedish Ministry of Finance has fallen considerably since the Ministry of Finance took over the governance of the Swedish Financial Policy. Now it has become so that despite the fact that the state has never had greater revenues – we have never had better advice than now – SV has received exactly as bad advice as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. My questions to the representative Holmås are therefore: Does he believe that the Minister of Finance controls Norway's financial policy in line with the SV's party programme and election campaign promises? What concrete changes would he have made to the budget if the UK had had a purely majority in the Storting? In other words, what fiscal struggles have SV lost in government and in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e732	I hope that the Minister of Finance is in line with the Soria Moria Declaration and not in line with the SV Party Programme alone – we are in fact in cooperation where we depend on our cooperation in a proper way. At least in the last ten years and in the foreseeable past, SV has conducted a policy where the main difference between us and the other parties has not been that we have spent more money than they have – on the contrary, we have sometimes spent less. The main difference has been what we spent the money on. We are not a distribution party, which is the Progress Party. We're a priority party, which re-prioritises and shows what we think is most important. In addition, there is one thing that is important to me to bring up with the Progress Party: I have been up over the years in debates with many progress party politicians, and there is one discussion that has never been willing to enter into. That's when you ask, can't we just use a little bit more oil money? Well, you can choose to use more oil money -- we can use more oil money. But there is nothing to suggest that the interest rate would not have increased much if we had used as much oil money as that, among other things. The Progress Party has proposed during this spring on Stortinget – which would have had great consequences for people who today have large loans on their houses. They would have gone under if the policies of the Progress Party had been put into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e741	The representative Holmås was very concerned with the tax on sickness in his post. Then I would like to draw his attention to the biggest single issue in the revised budget, which is the taxation of private savings. Due to the lack of investigation, neither the Government, the Council of State, the SV nor any other in-position batches have been exposed to some thousand traffic damage resulting from this tax, which dramatically worsens and reduces their living conditions in relation to the assumptions. Is the representative Holmås comfortable with the fact that this is the case for such a weak group?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e748	It'll always be that the changes we're making can be uncomfortable for individual groups. I would like to talk to those who are injured in the traffic to listen to their objections to the changes that have been proposed. But I think it's important to remember that when we make changes in the way we save, in the rules around pension saving, we have to see all things in one whole. So our government has achieved the greatest single increase in pension savings for people through the introduction of compulsory occupational pensions. We have increased the possibility of tax-subsidized saving for the self-employed. In sum, it makes us think it is reasonable to remove the subsidies that individuals have had. That's the consequence. We have to look at the whole thing when we're looking at a total pension saving, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e755	It is with concern that we now go into the summer months with regard to drug users. Summer is the busiest time of the year in drug treatment. The closure of the M3, a detoxification department in Oslo, from 1 May, and the closure of no less than 37 treatment sites in Follo in July, may lead to a lack of room for drug users in need of help. The Christian People's Party proposed an increase of 50 million in the treatment of the revised national budget. DKK for health care establishments and SEK 12 million. kr to private drug treatment institutions, such as P22, who is involved in detoxification just in Oslo. How has the government planned to prevent the drug addicts in the capital from coming to closed doors this summer? As the situation is now, it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e769	The representative, Bavøy, asks a very good question, which many of us in the government parties are very concerned about. This concerns the situation of drug users. Summer is a time when many people will just be motivated to carry out a treatment scheme. Now I see that the Minister of Health is also sitting here, and I have at least got the impression that the signals that have gone out are that you have to give priority and make sure that even if you close some of the institutions for refurbishment or other things, there has to be an overall offer that is good enough. We want to come back with a proper upgrade, a bet, to improve the conditions for drug users. It's at least one of the things that I'm very concerned about, and that I'll work to get an impact on the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e778	The representative Heikki Holmås is a happy boy. The same way the dark and evil winter days have been, it has been that once you have met Heikki Holmås in the staging corridors this winter, it has been like meeting a piece of ours – sevja has stood higher than he himself is. [[Laughter]] I think that reflects a little bit of the feeling SV has about being in government. What's one of the most exciting things in our time or these days, these political years, is now to see how SV manages in government. I will quote first from a director in the newspaper, who certainly was not so pleasant for the representative Holmås to read, for there it says: ‘There are several reasons why the Government is not working.’ So this is what Dagbladet - SV's court organ has been saying in recent years. It goes on to say: ‘SV is temporarily so overrun that the lot resembles an unfortunate stick pig on a motorway.’ I think SV is going to tolerate being a hedgehog quite a lot, for the alternative, as it has been in the incomprehensible past, if SV has been what the representative himself said, is the shadowy parliamentary backyard of the Workers' Party. Am I right when I now ask the representative Holmås whether he is going to thrive on being an overrun stick pig quite a lot, for the option is actually even worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e795	The President won't answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e798	The representative, Lars Sponheim, is a happy rooster. I'm a man who looks very little like – as he says – on an overrun stick pig, and I have a clear ambition not to be overrun during this period. So over this period, we have negotiated a proper compromise with regard to the Barents Sea. It was negotiated here yesterday. It's also the way we have put forward a plan for a big investment in alternative energy over the years that is coming, and that's how we have made it clear through the Soria Moria agreement that we have an ambition to put in place a large-scale investment, among other things. on the railway. Sponheim agreed to confirm that one should have NOK 1 billion less for the railway than the SV says we have as planned to be completed during this large-scale period. In addition to that, I am absolutely sure that Sponheim has noticed that we share a common ambition to be able to make an impact on more environmentally friendly cars and fuels over the years that are coming. We have a lot to go and smile before the summer holidays in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e807	SV has for all years tried to appear like the lot to take from the rich and give to the poor. The opposite occurred in the 2006 state budget. The SV will fight poverty, as is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. Does Heikki Holmås think that there are fewer poor people in Norway now, after SV has been in government offices for almost one year? And can Heikki Holmås tell me why SV and the other government parties do not support the Progress Party's proposal that the poor should receive increased social assistance in the Christmas month of December and the summer of July? So a little bit about inflation and interest rates: does Holmås mean that there is inflation and higher interest rates of going to acquisitions abroad? Will it be, for example, inflation in purchasing new transport aircraft to the United States Defense while we get rid of the old Hercules transport aircraft, which can save us annual for maintenance costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e814	I can't answer all these questions. I just have to admit that the fight for the poor in Norway is a little higher on my priority list than transport aircraft to the Defence. It might not be very eye-catching. Yes, I'm pretty sure there are fewer people in the 'poor' category in Norway today than it was a year ago. The main reason for this is that the main way to ensure that people with poor finances get better finances is to make sure that more people get a job, and more people have got a job in the last year that has gone. More people have got a job than what they would get if the previous government had been seated, with the support of the Progress Party. But there's one thing I'd like to say, and that's the same thing as I mentioned in my post. It's that the people who haven't got it much better are the poorest. That is why we are presenting a clear plan to combat poverty. Among other things, we have a clear wording in the Soria Moria Declaration that social aid rates should be raised. That's one of the things that we're going to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e824	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e827	There's a certain coincidence between the status of the Norwegian economy and what we're looking out here at the moment: stable and neat, but perhaps with some possibilities for more hot than what's advisable. Yes, we are in a unique growth period, something even the Ministry of Finance in its sober description in revised not to hide. And we must be allowed to say that the economic policy of the Bondevik II government, with the emphasis on strengthening Norwegian business and employment, has produced good results. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the current government in its budgetary policy seems to follow the same path, although unfortunately there is too little focus on the framework conditions for business and on long-term value creation. Due, inter alia, to: increased tax receipts and increased dividends have been able to propose increases in the budget by the Government. Kindergarten bet is good. It follows up previous announcements from the previous government to all municipal and private kindergarten owners: each new place is to be fully financed. But there's still a piece left for full kindergarten coverage, and it actually has to take some responsibility for it itself. By cutting cash support, two things have been achieved, firstly, by cutting off a welfare scheme that many parents want, and secondly, by increasing kindergarten queues. Of course, such a policy does not receive our support, and we are therefore proposing significant changes to the revised budget in the area of family policy. The government, on the other hand, shall be in favour of a reversal of any cut from the ordinary budget. The Amathea Foundation, which carries out important counselling for pregnant women, is being reversed. The same applies to the private nursing colleges. We are pleased, not least on behalf of those who were originally quite meaninglessly hit by such a cut. However, we must note that other private colleges, such as: schools that train teachers and pre-school teachers are not allowed to correct their cuts. Here it's not easy to see the logic. The Soria Moria Declaration states that people want a working life for everyone and that action against people with disabilities is particularly important. Despite these beautiful words, the government is going to grant a total of 172 million to disabled people. kr. It is equally claimed that 1 000 new sites for action will be created. This is a showbread, and I think the government parties are aware of that. The cut will affect people with high aid needs, such as people with mental health problems, disabled people and drug users. Their way to work is getting longer as a result of the government's arrangements, where quantity is now at the expense of quality. It is impossible for the Christian People's Party to agree to such a surprising unsocial proposal from the Government. We are also amazed that the government is willing to passively consider that the number of emergencies in the care of drug users seems to be reduced. I have heard of an institution that is being closed down, and other voluntary measures do not need funding even if they have available capacity. I wish the government had seen the need to prioritize these groups. In the revised version, the entire amount of NOK 700,000 is moved in the Stortinget, and we are pleased that the magazine = Oslo and other similar measures are given a boost through the allocation that, after all, takes place and is also moved by the government parties. We're happy about that. But that so few dollars are being moved, something also says about a more closed decision-making process when we now have a majority government. Through hearings, letters and enquiries, institutions, non-governmental organisations, Enterprise Norway and others have made numerous contributions. Some recordings are absolutely worth listening to, I would think, also with the eyes of the government parties. We therefore see a governance situation where the open channels are unfortunately narrowed, and where a natural democratic process seems to be able to get less leeway. It is a challenge a majority government should take seriously, a challenge that is quite different from peace and order. It's actually a living democracy. This perspective has become much clearer through the review of the revised budget, and we are therefore curious whether this is a template that the majority intends to focus on in the future. Finally, our amendments to the revised budget mean that the social profile will be strengthened in line with the government's approach. We should like to see several of these proposals have been given a majority. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e848	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e853	In the setting that we are now debating, the Christian People's Party states that we are dealing with an administrative government that does not have the aim of changing policy. It is also determined that in many areas the Government has no eye contact with its wavelift. This is the point of view of the Christian People's Party in layers with Right and Left. Another place in the setting says the Christian People's Party, without the support of the Right, that the party will "give the Government honor for prioritizing the strengthening of the local economy". My question to the representative Syversen will therefore be: Where is the Christian People's Party in its heart – in the tough outcome to Regeninga, or in the rosy mention of the bet on welfare for children, young people and the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e862	I think Reidar Sandal should know that the heart of the Christian People's Party is where we fight for those who need it in this society, for those who are most vulnerable. I can mention some groups that the Government has unfortunately not prioritised in the revised budget. This applies to the disabled, where the quantity is now at the expense of quality, and to drug users, where unfortunately we see that the number of treatment sites is being reduced in the summer months we are now facing. The Christian People's Party will give praise to the Government where there's reason for it, but we're not going to let go of it where the Government fails.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e869	As a good Oslo representative, I really just want to thank you for a good cooperation in dealing with the revised national budget. In addition, I also have a question for Hans Olav Syversen. These are the following: Before Christmas, Hans Olav Syversen was involved in defending a draft budget presented by the previous government. There were massive tax cuts. We think it's more important to spend money on welfare than to spend it on tax relief. We're going to continue that work in our budget for the autumn. Will it be so in the future that Hans Olav Syversen and the Christian People's Party will be involved in our priority of community, more money for community economy, more money to help those who need it, and in combating poverty? Is Hans Olav Syversen and Christian People's Party an ally in that fight? Or will they fight for the tax relief imposed by the previous government to remain in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e876	I think the biggest surprise in the fall was hardly the Christian People's Party budget and the budget we were in. It was probably the revised draft that SV was in on, and that gave so strong tax relief to those who had the most from before – i.e. a total turnaround from the election campaign. The representative, Holmås, can be absolutely certain, is that we should conduct a tax policy that has a good distribution profile, but also ensures that we have a business that works, which in turn can contribute to our well-being in this country. We're happy to cooperate with all the parties about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e883	In the revised budget, we remove the excesses of physiotherapy, as proposed by the Bondevik government. I think it is pathetic to hear the representative, Mr Davøy, and the representative, Mr Syversen, talk about spending time on drugs when it is the health companies that have this responsibility, and the Christian People's Party proposed half a billion less to the health companies in the state budget for 2006. What has made the Christian People's Party now suddenly turn around and choose to spend more money on health? The revised budget is in a way an adjustment to developments, and there has been no particularly strong development in health. If the Christian People's Party budget had been adopted in terms of health, one would have had to reduce the activity compared to 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e892	First of all, I'm going to commend the government for the fact that the revision removes the excess for chronically ill patients in terms of physiotherapy. However, as the representative of the Skjälaa avoided mentioning, there was also a proposal that the Stoltenberg government maintained from the ordinary budgetary procedure, so that there is a revision of its own government's proposals on which the Skjälaa has been involved. In the area of drug use, health businesses are a range of responses to drug users; another is that we have a wide range of voluntary organisations that have measures targeting drug users and that have free capacity but do not receive sufficient funding. I would like the Center Party to be able to contribute relatively few dollars to these institutions, so that it could ensure that more drug users actually get the treatment and rehabilitation they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e899	The Christian People's Party has a lot of good politics. Very much of what has been revised is close to what the government parties have, and I think it is good. I have a question for the representative Syversen that I hope can be clarified. The Christian People's Party now proposed to reintroduce the compensation system for electricity charging for electrified rail transport. This is a scheme that the Bondevik Government proposed to liquidate in its own budget in 2006. Then the question is, is there one opposition policy and one position policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e906	The representative Sund said we had a lot of good politics. I thank you for that. It is just so sad that the Workers' Party is so little following up by supporting the good proposals we have revised. But it might be a reason for that later. When it comes to compensation for the electricity charge, I think it might be right to say that sometimes we see that the proposals we have had can be changed and made better. That is also the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e914	There is a very interesting development in the Christian People's Party. As others have been involved, it is very happy what is in the setting, where the Christian People's Party and the Left will give the Government the honor of having given priority to strengthening the community economy. I expect that there will also be consequences in the future, that one can further develop the common positions on which the Christian People's Party is founded together with the Government. At the same time, the representative chooses to attack the government parties in relation to the tax relief they gave in connection with the correction of the 2006 State budget. This will mean an even stronger criticism of the tax proposals of its own government, for there was, after all, an even worse distribution profile. My question is: can we now expect that the Christian People's Party will give greater priority to progressive income taxation, so that one can achieve a better distribution profile in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e923	With regard to the revised budget, I am pleased that the representative Lundtigen thinks it is very good on the part of the Christian People's Party in the vote. He's probably also noticed that there's a comment from the Left and Christian People's Party together in the revised budget, which I think really answers in terms of content too much of what the Center Party stands for. We just have to note that unfortunately the Centre Party has not found an opportunity to participate in such a central comment. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e928	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e931	Revised is an adjustment to the State budget for 2006 and it marks all the comments made by the parties. The debate today provides an opportunity to raise our eyes and look forward to it. The Norwegian people are privileged to the degrees. Through a social organisation and a natural resource access, we have had opportunities that no other country or people have. It's important that we ask a lot of questions, so that we get a sharper public change of words about how we can exploit these possibilities. In the Central Party, it is central that we are asking the question now: what are we really going to do with Norway? There are many venues where the question will lead to debate. One of the current arenas is industrial policy. We see the challenges of industrial policy, discussed earlier today, in a number of areas. We see that the challenges are linked to very central industries that need to be discussed through what we want to do. Studies have been submitted on shipping and shipping taxation. It's going to be very central what solutions are being chosen there in relation to what we want with shipping in Norway in the future. It is quite obvious that if, with our coast, our traditions and our advantages, we are to have a modern shipping industry, we must also have framework conditions to ensure that shipping is operated and managed from Norway. Similarly, we have another arena that is seriously undervalued in relation to public vocabulary, and it is the three-processing industry – a key industry in relation to what the country should look like. It's an industry that's absolutely crucial far beyond the factories that we're talking about here. It is quite obvious that today the industry is in an economic situation that is far more uncertain than what has emerged in the media. It is therefore necessary to discuss what we want with the woodworking industry. It is quite obvious that if one does not have an industrial power regime that ensures that one here can process our raw material “energy” in combination with our raw material “wood” and produce new and modern and more competitive products, we get into difficulties. So there's a bunch of key arenas that need to be put in place. There are areas where the government is working on, and which will be central to getting into the 2007 state budget, so that we can then discuss more concrete content in the arenas we are facing. Similarly, we have energy policy. It is quite obvious that, as the energy situation develops, there is a need for a take-off of renewable energy. It is quite obvious that if the socio-economic accounts relating to the use of non-reliable energy involve significant costs, at least we have a room to stimulate the renewable energy that is at least the space the cost of the non-renewable energy is. I am thinking of gas and gas used for gas power plants – key arenas on which we need to have powerful instruments, so that we can ensure both industrial policy and environmental policy. In the area of welfare policy, the Government has done significant things in relation to local welfare, and it is continuing. The centre party will also underline what the representative Heikki Holmås said when it was concerned about the increase in sick leave. In the budget that we are now examining, the recovery of costs due to the increase in sick leave is the highest priority. No one should forget it. It's a deliberate priority on the part of the Government to provide security here, while the Government will have a watchful eye on this matter so that we can look at the necessary priorities. In the past, we have discussed much about the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy. The rule of action is applied in the same way as previous governments have done. But the essential thing is the availability of real resources, and then the interaction between financial policy and what is happening in the private sector is crucial. It is quite obvious that if we, for example: to ensure that we have a State investment programme in relation to infrastructure, where broadband is, for example, a key area, we need to curb the growth of private consumption. We don't get the real resources needed to get the community's work done if we don't get a dampening in the growth of private consumption and private investment. The alternative to this whole policy will be that we get a monetary policy and an interest rate policy that leads to an excessive increase in interest rates and associated high interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e955	The centre party likes to be referred to as the foresters' and districts' party. Before the election, the centre party acted as friends of foresters and was to qualify forestry yields as capital income. But now that they're in government, they're against it. Furthermore, the new tax rules have resulted in farmers and landowners getting a proper tax return on the sale of property. In addition, Norway has the highest level of car charges in Europe. The government has, after the Central Party entered the government offices, among other things. the introduction of increased one-off charges on tractors and smaller lorries which are, to a large extent, quadricycles, which are clearly more necessary in Norway than in other European countries and which should have been much cheaper in Norway. Does the representative Lundteigen think that what I mentioned now is good district policy? Can the representative Lundtigen tell us why nothing has been done about this in the revised version?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e962	It's true that the Center Party has an alert eye for forestry. In my article now I mentioned in that context a key arena, namely the disposal of the values created in forestry. We focus on it in order to secure the market for forest products, secure a market that is becoming increasingly competitive, and we are in favour of the necessary instruments where, for example, industrial power, by which I know the Progress Party is opposed. As far as forestry taxation is concerned, we have today received average taxes, as we had in the past. There is considerable progress in relation to what could have been the option. As regards the gain on the sale of property, car taxes and everything, it was clarified in the context of the 2006 State budget. There's going to be discussions about this in the future. There are important questions raised by the representative, and the Central Party will include them in the whole of the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e971	The representative Lundtigen would like to dampen the growth of private consumption in the future, he says. One of the ways to do it – I understand – is to increase the taxes on ordinary people's houses and cabins. The representative Lundtigen has previously been an avid spokesperson for people's usual dwellings not to be a tax item, and very many will still remember his definition of ordinary dwellings – I'm not going to go into it any further now! In addition to the fact that Lundtägen in the budget last year contributed to increasing the wealth of people's homes, he is now irresistibly committed to increasing the ability of municipalities to charge additional taxes. What is the reason why the Center Party, and the representative Lundtigen, have completely changed course in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e978	First to the history description: the centre party was involved in increases in property taxes and in the values of equations, while we were involved in the increase in the base deductions when it came to property taxes. In sum, this meant that the vast majority of people who have wealth in this country did not receive increased wealth taxes – in the name of justice! What we are facing in terms of housing taxation is going to be an important topic in the future. There are many important elements in what needs to be discussed. I can assure the representative that the central party's position on the taxation of housing – and we are talking about the taxation of standard housing, standard housing – is firm. It's not the Central Party's policy to tax ordinary people's homes. It is a central asset, and it has been encouraged throughout the post-war period in Norway to own their own home. There has been a good that should be taken care of, and I can assure you that it will also be in the future. On the other hand, in the case of luxury dwellings, it is appropriate to add up to increased taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e985	Despite persistent and optimistic attempts, I have not been able to see the centre profile of the red-green government. The Christian People's Party has a number of measures proposed in the revised budget, including: more on the creation of a biased distribution between health professionals, more on the strengthening of interaction with specialist health services, community health services and psychiatry, on private church buildings, on the means to prevent church decay, on the organisation of increased use of biodiesel, etc. We also have the right permissions to fix the bad private eyeball cuts. In fact, the situation is that the NLA Teachers' College in Bergen, which teaches highly sought after teachers and preschool teachers for the public sector, is in danger of breaking down, because the cuts made in the budget were so ugly. Doesn't this representative concern Lundtigen? Has the Center Party completely given up giving up a center profile to the Red-Green Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e994	The center party has a firm hand into the government in terms of our values. It's a firm hand in relation to what we've gone to election, and we're satisfied with it. There were four points that were taken up. With regard to healthcare companies, specialist health services and psychiatry, I can only assure you – both for the Government and for the Central Party – that these are among the areas in which we focus most on the 2007 budget. It's demanding. The additions from the Christian People's Party are not special and will not change the situation of health businesses. It's a much more comprehensive topic than what the Christian People's Party has set up. As far as church construction and maintenance are concerned, it is a municipal responsibility. Now the Christian People's Party has praised the Government for what they did, so it should be reasonably well cared for. Biodiesel and biogasoline are areas where there is no significant difference between the Government and the opposition. In the case of private colleges, some have been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1010	The representative Lundtigen is concerned about what he and we want with Norway, and that is a good question. It may not be appropriate to reply in a line like this, but at least I have noticed that in the setting available there is little response to what Lundtägen wants with Norway. Lundtigen is a political twin with e.g. Schjøtt-Pedersen in Arbeiderpartiet, or Storingspresident Jagland, and thus we get little insight into what the Zenterpartie actually thinks about what you want with Norway. In the past, I knew the Center Party as a party that stood with e.g. The Left and Christian People's Party in the voluntary sector, they do not, and when it comes to stimulating saving – strong citizens who spend money to cope with difficult times. He is now involved in a policy – which increased wealth tax in the budget audit before Christmas, and now extended property tax – that goes in one direction the Central Party has not previously told them that they want Norway to go in. When can we expect the representative Lundtigen to tell us what he and the Central Party want with Norway – and not this mixing water they've made up in the airlock on Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1019	In relation to the option, the Center Party is very pleased with the company we are today. We're very pleased with that. Let's just mention the main arrangement of tax policy in relation to tax according to its ability. The representative Sponheim has become the spokesman for a tax policy that totally violates what has been the liberal line of the Left in the past, by giving one more degree of tax relief to those who have the greatest ability to pay. It is referred to the representative, Mr Jagland, from Buskerud, and I can assure the representative, Mr Sponheim, that with regard to an area that is very central in Buskerud, namely the industrial policy – the woodworking industry – it is an interaction and cooperation between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that is very close and very good and that will deliver great results in relation to what would be the option. We're happy so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1026	The representative Lundtägen states that he is busy with the framework conditions for Norwegian industry and jobs, and that is good. In connection with the revision, there is also a Document No. 8-proposals for removing the chocolate and sugar confectionery charge. In connection with that, I have two letters, one from the Minister of Finance and one from LO. In the letter from LO, there is a concern about this fee, and one believes that she will threaten Norwegian jobs. In her letter from the Minister of Finance, she points out that this charge is dependent on the product and regardless of where the output takes place, and she writes the following: ‘It cannot therefore be claimed by the levy distorts competition between Norwegian and foreign producers.’ My question to the representative Lundteigen is: is Lundteigen in agreement with the Minister for Finance, or is he in agreement with the Progress Party and LO that this fee is worrying?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1036	The representative of Lundtägen agrees with both the Minister of Finance and the Landsorganisation. We agree with the Minister of Finance that the chocolate and sugar levy is neutral in relation to Norwegian production and import production. I also expect the representative to agree, because that is an objective fact. Point 2: We agree with the National Organisation on the competitive situation of the Norwegian food industry, perhaps especially the chocolate industry, because it is an area that is also being exposed, as part of the product-producing industries, to an increasing and more brutal international competition. It is probably an area where questions need to be asked about what we want with the food industry in Norway. It would have been a pleasure if the representative from the Progress Party here were involved in asking that question and looking at what was necessary to do, so that we could have a modern and efficient food industry, which also includes that we have import protection on some of the raw materials that that that industry relies on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1041	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1044	I immediately join the Government's main objective of economic policy on work for all, fair distribution and sustainable development. These are also important pillars of Left Policy. Another important pillar is a strong and competitive business. These are political goals that actually depend on each other. Without a strong business life, neither all nor a public economy will be able to cope with a comprehensive welfare effort. This seems to be what the Government has completely forgotten in the internal discussion about whether the instruments can be placed in a toolbox or in a jewelry box. The fact that Norwegian business must be a key pillar of economic policy has been lost in the government's analysis of the economic policy underpinning Stortingen's treatment today. Unfortunately, this merges into a larger picture of a government which, to the extent that it is engaged in industrial policy at all, almost without exception promotes anti-business proposals, especially to the smallest enterprises and to the self-employed. Rarely has the basis for implementing important and correct changes to Norwegian policies been better than it is now. Through the laborious and long-term work of the previous government, resources are now in place to implement a new and forward-looking policy if there is a will. We don't see any sign of that. Unfortunately, the reality is as VG described yesterday: ‘The second government of Stoltenberg appears to be a reactionary political project.’ It goes on to say: ‘This reactionary profile is based on the project of the Centre Party.’ This project is described by Åslaug Haga as «dead conservatively». The government's draft revised budget is completely out of direction and political will, as it stands, 'dead conservatively'. The proposal most testifys to an administrative government that has sought power for the sake of power and not to change politics. It also shows the ‘glorious’ chaos internally in the Government on various issues such as ownership announcement, acquisition law – or what the law should be called – and the administrative reform, where it now appears that the Centre Party will have four different levels of government – not to mention the management of the State-owned companies Statoil, BaneTele and SAS. Where is the active enterprise policy? One might ask if it's stuck in a door over in Årdal. Where is the investment in school and education? Where is the restoration of Norway as an environmental nation? Where is the investment in public transport, in environmentally friendly transport or in alternative energy? Where are the Government’s measures to eradicate national and international poverty? While the last government, following its last adopted budget — revised budget for 2005 — left an aid effort of 0,97 p.m.. by GNI, this is now down to 0.91 pst. of GNI as a result of the current Government Party's adoption, contrary to the promises of the same parties by Soria Moria. Rarely has a declaration more lived up to its name: the Air Lock declaration. Apart from a very low-estimated proposal to wind up the IPA scheme overnight, the only political profile of the Government's proposal for a revised budget is the repair of its own faulty kindergarten policy. The demand for kindergartens has, of course, exploded in line with the fact that the maximum price of the stay payment has been lowered. This is one of the most elementary natural laws in the economy: lower prices increase demand. It is surprising that the Government does not understand the consequences of its own policy and needs to use most of the economic space to meet increased demand as a result of lower prices. I agree that there must be moderate prices for accommodation payments in kindergartens, but space for everyone must be given priority before the lower price. As you can see, the government's kindergarten policy has failed, and it gives the most to those who already have. The left therefore invites to a joint effort to solve the problems and proposes a moderate price increase of NOK 2 500 per person. month to release additional funds for kindergarten development. That's why we're also proposing to spend $240 million. kr – what we get into that twist – in addition to the government’s proposal for a general effort to build more kindergartens. Such a commitment will provide 3560 new full-time places and space for many children. The Left promotes a number of proposals for changes to the Government’s proposal for a revised national budget. We're changing approximately NOK 1.5 billion net compared to the government's proposal. Left rates of forward-looking industrial policy, small businesses, environmentally friendly relations, school, education and research, and a targeted policy to help those who need it the most. We are promoting a number of proposals that could fill both the Enterprise Policy Toolbox and the Enterprise Policy Jewellery Box: better social arrangements for self-employed workers, increased funding for industrial research, Innovation Norway, unpaid labour input in the TaxFUNN, halving the Brønnøysund fees, doubling the stock discount on the purchase of shares in their own enterprise, increasing the depreciation rates for machines from 20 p.m. until 25 pst. and maintaining the IPA scheme. Here it is only to choose on the top shelf in good and targeted actions for Norwegian business in general, and small businesses in particular. For the Left, there is reason to stress the importance of a sustained and strong commitment to school, education and research. In our alternative to the revised budget, the Left proposes to allocate an additional 200 million. kr for the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. We have a proposal from the Left to introduce a year of competence for teachers in primary and secondary school, and we follow this up with proposals of 25 million. to prepare for the introduction of a competence year. We promote proposals to strengthen private colleges and colleges, strengthen research by increasing the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion, and reject the Government's proposal to cut $100 million. kr in the gift-enhancing scheme for basic research. There is reason to point out the Government's unwillingness to invest in public transport both in the budgetary procedure last autumn and now in the revised budget. Strengthening the accessibility of public transport through the reward scheme will make collective solutions more competitive and attractive in relation to the use of urban passenger cars. The left therefore proposes to strengthen the 50 million public transport reward scheme. in new funds. In addition, we're proposing 75 million. more to the railway than the Government's proposal to complete the Lysaker station, ensure progress in the work of the double-track Sandvika-Lysaker, and increased means of securing and improving along the Nordlandsbanen, Sørlandsbanen and the Trandelag track. Left supports the Government's 100 million increase in Health West and Health Mid-Norway grants, respectively. to correct some of the imbalance between health establishments, but doubts that these appropriations are sufficient. The left therefore proposes to grant an additional 100 million. kr to the same health establishments and with the same distribution key as in the Government's proposal. The left also proposes to strengthen Health East by 17 million. kr to maintain the drug supply at Aker Hospital. In addition, we're promoting a proposal of 30 million. for measures to ensure that as many as possible of the 5000 homeless in Norway can receive an offer. Finally, I want to go a little bit into two of the many document numbers. The eight proposals which we are debating today and which we are discussing in this debate. For Document No: 8:63 to exempt bioethanol from fees and Document No 8:76 on the adjustment of the limits of the employer’s tax exemption for non-profit institutions serving households. The left is satisfied with the fact that the government has come to meet us on a long way with regard to the proposals for tax exemptions for bioethanol, where the percentage of bioethanol blended in petrol is more than 5 pst. However, we want to go further than the Government and also propose a tax exemption for all bioethanol gasoline taxes with a blend of less than 5 pst. These are proposals supported by the entire opposition. I expect without further ado that the Minister of Finance does not feel comfortable taking a less environmentally friendly position than an overall opposition, and that the Government will come back to this in connection with the State budget for 2007. With regard to the proposal to adjust the amounts of the employer’s tax exemption for non-governmental organisations, I am much less satisfied with the Government. These amounts have remained unchanged since the law came into force on 1 May 1997, while wage developments have been significant over the nine years that have elapsed in the legal period of operation – 44,8 p.m. for industrial workers, to give an example. Therefore, it must be allowed to wonder that in its reply to the Committee dated 4 May 2006, the government parties in the position and the Minister for Finance stressed that an increase in the limits of funds, for example, is important. 450 000 kroner would be a strong increase in indirect support to non-governmental organisations, as if this were something negative in itself. It may be appropriate to remind both government councils and government parties that the ‘airlock declaration’ promises to facilitate voluntary Norway and to implement a voluntary sector pledge. In view of this, it is disappointing, but not surprising, to see that the government parties in general, and the Central Party in particular, do not support the proposal. I bring this up with the suggestions that the Left promotes in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1090	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1095	The representative, Sponheim, asked a lot of questions. So at least he has shown that he is better at asking questions than he is at giving answers. The process industry contributes more than DKK 130 billion to export income to the Norwegian state. Historically, the Left and the representative of Sponheim have opposed the fact that they are going to gain power at competitive prices. We know that it will affect many communities. The left and the representative have opposed petroleum activities in the north, which are important for the region. They are opposed to the net pay system for seafarers, who will maintain Norwegian jobs. The only proposal made by the representative Sponheim is that everyone should have their hen. Is the representative happy to surf majority decisions, or what will he do for Norway – in addition to the chicken policy for the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1102	No one should accuse me of not thinking humor is funny, but when it gets as bad as this attempt, it's not very funny. But I can offer the representative Klungland a good course. I don't think the political aspects of this were particularly striking either. It's the way the Left is concerned about having a very good process industry. That's why we think it's right that they meet real conditions. Therefore, they are right to meet market-based electricity prices. I sat in the Bondevik I government, and the Minister of Energy of the Central Party terminated the political regime, and must of course be responsible for it. But that was right. We supported it because it's important that the industry buys the power at what it costs. But it was actually possible to buy at that time. Those who bought after it was closed that time, e.g. Elkem, who bought in the Swedish Vattenfall, currently holds very competitive prices. So those who listened to Left and Sponheim have come out of it well, and those who have been waiting for Klungland, yes, they are going to die while they wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1109	I'm not going to claim that Lars Sponheim is over his reproductive age, but it's at least quite obvious that he doesn't have children in kindergarten age from the policy Left leads the government – no, not in government, but outside government. So Sponheim was part of an obliging majority here in Stortinget – in fact, a unanimous growth – that went in to lower child care prices and achieve that all those who wanted it would have children's garden space. Then I don't understand that as part of this policy it seems quite natural for the Left to increase the nursery prices in the middle of this year that has passed. What we've done is one of the most serious and most effective things we can do. We've lowered the kindergarten prices, so that all the people who haven't had kindergarten space, we've simply pissed off the local politicians. So it may be uncomfortable for the Left that the Left is in the City Council in Bergen, and is in favour of supporting under the majority here in Oslo, but it is not going to be better with the policy proposed here by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1116	This explains why the representative Holmås in the back of the rotunda some time ago had to ask how young the youngest of my children was. I was afraid it was the criminal lavalier who was the problem, but it was not the issue of kindergarten. I can assure the representative Holmås that I have definitely had my time out and in from Norwegian kindergartens, carrying up to three children, akeboard and chocolate cake, and with a string that runs and a bit of each. So I know something about this. It tells me – and that was the case when this was my reality – that the most important thing was to get a nursery place. It's more important than anything else. Then it must not be that you lower the prices until everyone has got a nursery place, because then you pull up the ladder, and then you get an advantage for those on the inside. So job no. 1 is to get a kindergarten space for everyone. Now we see how lower prices increase demand – and then the queues for the Government increase. So my good advice is to follow the left: give everyone a nursery place, and then we're going to start setting prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1124	One of the Government's objectives in the transport policy is to reduce the transport costs associated with ferry operations. This is not least important for industry. This work is under way by the Government through additional discount schemes, and a distribution work has also been started when it comes to attempts at a free ferry. With respect to reporting, one cannot say that the Bondevik II administration and the impending Minister for Transport Skogsholm were particularly concerned about this. It is therefore with some wonder that I note that the Left in the previous week is making a proposal for the quick start of free ferry attempts, while the Government has notified that this work is in progress. So my challenge, or questions about a will, to the Left's leader is: will the Left now lay down on such a line, which has preferably been our Progress Party's line, that when the Government announces matters, the Left will immediately make concrete proposals in the Storting related to its work, instead of saying something positive about or supporting the work of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1133	The most serious thing about politics is in practical policy to live up to what is promised to its voters. This six months has been a demonstration in leaping from their promises. Some of us were running an election campaign a few months ago, where we experienced that the representatives of the Central Party were standing on the ferries and promised free ferries. Then it's not unreasonable that someone is starting to ask, isn't it coming soon? What does the Center Party want with Ferje-Norway? The answer has not come, except that they are sitting and investigating. Of course, it's about meeting reality and the money bag. Therefore, it is sometimes necessary, unfortunately, to allow a few to meet reality. Otherwise, I'd like to say, since it's about the Left and the Transport Policy, that there's something that makes sense, it's the formidable collective effort that the previous government did in the last period. Where we need more transport effort than anything else, where the cars stand on top of each other and pollute without going forward, we need collective effort. There, the Left has made a formidable uplift through the previous government. And so far we see a Minister of Transport who promises to bet on county roads, and investigate free ferries. We'll just have to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1140	I don't really like admitting such things, but I've always really had a little sense of Sponheim and the Party Left, even though sometimes he gets a little twirly when what he refers to as bad humor, goes out on himself. I also see both the program and the comments on today's revised national budget that there are many good things, but where the left in no way can be said to be the best boy in the class. It was during the last period that the municipalities were starving, and the community scheme made many people frustrated around. But now I'm recording that there's another pipe in the flute. Now there's a collection about betting on the municipalities. My question to the representative Sponheim is: is this to be seen as a slightly more lasting shift in economic policy, where the Left goes away from the right-wing mass of lower taxes and in the years to come will continue the unique tribute of the government's financial arrangement to the municipalities, as we see in the notes on today's RNB?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1147	Let me first say to the general entrance that I as a type and as a politician have made it a trademark – and it is me – to try to be honest both by what I think is all right, and by what I think is wrong. That's why I often stand on this platform in different contexts and say good things when the government does something good. Because I think you should do that. That is why I am reacting so strongly to the comments of the committee leader today, which are only being completely unsound. And I had to use a comparison as strong as Comedian Ali. It is the case that with regard to the government's increased appropriations in relation to the previous government, at NOK 3.8 billion to the municipalities, I think it is good in isolation, and then I tell you about it. But it was not that the previous government was also busy working with the municipalities. We had a couple of tough years in the first few years – I don't want to say to clean up after Schjøtt-Pedersen, but to make the job better. Then we were able to get a formidable increase in the municipal effort in the last two years of the last government's life. There is a surplus in the local government sector. It is this foundation on which this government is now building, and that is good. It'll get our support. The back of the medal, that business is punished with increased taxes, we need to take a close look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1159	Lars Sponheim's creative way of solving the problem of long nursery cows is to say that first you have to make sure that everyone gets kindergarten, and then you have to lower the price. He first tried on a lesson on how the market works. It's clear that our goal of lowering the price is to get the real need and to know how many people there are who are actually asking for a nursery place. What Lars Sponheim suggests is to raise the price, so that fewer children's playgrounds are asked for, so that fewer people can afford children's playgrounds. Think if Left had used the same policy towards public transport in Oslo! They had then said that there are now so large cows on the T-road from Stovner and from Westli that we are now raising the prices, because the most important thing for us is to make sure that everyone gets room, and then we are going to make sure to lower the prices. It will be the same issue, and it is a problem that – I'm sorry, it doesn't have a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1168	I think that this was actually a rather eye-catching line. What the representative Holmås here says, is that the government first wants to see the kindergarten queues, and then a count of everyone standing in the nursery queues, to know how to build this out. The market comparison is possible to draw a certain piece, i.e. that lower prices give rise to increased demand. The problem is that the lower price paid over the state budget, the money used to lower the prices, is not spent on other things. That's the problem. But that money is what we're proposing to use to build more kindergartens, and thus all of these don't stand in this queue as long as they do as a consequence of the order of kindergarten policy that the representative Holmås here stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1175	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1178	I think I have to have the most exciting job in the world. I think that those who are in government in Norway have the most exciting job in the world, and I think that those who are elected on behalf of the Norwegian population are among the most privileged people elected in the whole of the great, knowledgeable world. It's because we have an economic freedom and an economic standard that most other countries can envy us. If we compare with EU countries, our gross domestic product is almost 50 pst. above the EU average. If we measure in the same way, only the United States and Luxembourg are in front of us. So we have opportunities that are bigger than most other countries have. In addition, we have high levels of professional participation in Norway. That means that many people are active in the workplace, but on average we work a little less hours. But productivity, the ability to change and produce in new and trickier ways, is greater in us than in most other countries. So we have a situation in Norway that we have to remember is very good, compared to the reality of the world around us. It's not just the oil revenues that have made us privileged. In addition to being a productive country and investing in knowledge and innovation, we have a natural wealth, a non-renewable resource that makes us in an extra favorable situation. This is a fortune that we have to manage in a sense. We belong to the generation that has technology to pump it up and switch it into money, but it's taken millions of years to form oil and gas. But since it's a fortune we're talking about, we have to have that perspective when we spend this money, that in 20-30 years we're going to be able to see the next generation in our eyes and say, "Yes, we've invested in something that makes this society better now than when we took over 20-30 years ago. We need to have such a generation perspective on what we're doing. We're going to spend a lot of oil money, and we're going to spend more. NOK 66 billion above today's state budget is direct revenue from the oil fund into the treasury. It's the defence budget twice. It would have been noticeable if we, for example, would privatise the oil assets, keep it out of the state budget. Then we should have cut every $12 on the state budget. So we have an opportunity that almost nobody else has, because we have a lot of revenue from the oil wealth as well. I see that discussions about economic policy often coincide with the fact that SV has changed so much in the government position. I have to say that is a small challenge to take, because in order to accept such a claim you have to assume that when we were in opposition, what was the scare of SV, which usually came from the right side, that we couldn't keep track of the economy, that we were in charge of, etc. Then you're going to measure us up against the scare screen and the lie about how we were in opposition. It's clear that then you think you're there with some points. But in the opposition, SV stood for a responsible economic policy. What we now have the chance to do is show it out. The big challenge for us is to be able to make a clear and clear prioritisation of a new course in relation to what was the economic course and policy of the previous government. So we have not promised that 130,000 families with large housing debts will end up in a debt crisis. A responsible economic policy is to ensure that there is no gamble with those who are in the start-up phase and are heavily indebted. There's some of it an old man with if he can't keep his oil money in mind, so that the interest rate goes up by one, two or three percentage points in addition to what Norway's Bank has already said that it's slow, but probably going to go up with. You'll get old with open eyes with at least 130,000 families' private finances. There's never been an SV policy. Nor has it been SV policy to provide passports for the competitive sector, which are the ones that are going to have the biggest challenges, if we ensure that the crown becomes so strong that they have major competition problems. We have an inheritance from the generation before us. It's the Nordic welfare model. It has qualities that many people in other countries now look up to. Even at the last OECD meeting, reference was made to the Nordic welfare model, which usually does not fit into the advice coming from there. However, the Swedish and British finance ministers have described how to find another way to bring about change, development and productivity development than necessarily tax dumping, longer working days and tougher markets. The Nordic welfare model is the answer to that. First of all, we have a high level of professional participation. Secondly, we have a universal welfare system that makes it easier for people to change and change jobs in society with the Nordic welfare model than it is in many other societies. This allows us to manage both parts: more equitable distribution, but also higher productivity and better development than many other countries have. This model is what our government now has to make sure to develop further. The biggest challenge we have after four years of right-wing rule is that unilateral, systematic taxation rather than upgrading the public sector has created imbalances in this model, threatening what is the good solution of our Nordic welfare state, that of paying taxes according to ability and receiving services as needed, free education, free health, etc. That's what our project is -- rebuilding the community so that there's consistency between the private standard of living we have, and the public offer we have. We're doing it very well, but we have some challenges. What is very clear to everyone about this revised national budget is that we are spending more money on sick leave, because sick leave is growing dramatically. It's actually the largest single item. Just the increase in sick leave, which we have now had to adjust, means that we have 10,000 fewer annual work. That's our biggest challenge in the future. We need labour – with the right qualifications in the right places. It informs the enterprises. They lack people, and that's why a lot of companies now say they can't expand. It will also be the challenge in the public sector. We need labour. That's why the most important political project we're doing is getting the so-called NAV reform in place, so-called 20 pst. of the active-age population now in different social security schemes, is able to enter the labour market again. And then we can do several of the problems that we have in front of us. Through this revised national budget, we have proposed greater changes than is usual in a revised national budget. I've been through the paychecks. However, kindergarten policy is also an important and important field of action. I think, with respect to reporting, that the representative Sponheim came very badly out of the round with the representative Holmås about the nursery prices. It's clear there's one way to get rid of the kindergarten queues. That's setting the price at 4,500 kroner, as it was when I had kids at that age. Then the nursery was a luxury property that many had to take care of privately, and that had that kind of price. But it's not this government's policy, because we think kindergartens are extremely important for kids, and it should be a good thing that it's possible to do. That's why we have a lot of pressure on this. The main challenge we now have is to get the municipalities to move forward in order to get plots and plans for development – there is no lack of state support. Here we're going to have high pressure. Then there's a clear course in that we take away the five-step app that the Bondevik government proposed would be introduced as a proponent of physiotherapy. It's now gone. We've had a lot of enquiries about it. I'm glad we've settled this, because there were many who suddenly got themselves a surprising expense. They've been very worried about it, and it's settled. So, a new course on it! We have strengthened the public sector in many areas. The surprising thing is – compared to the comments that came when the revision was presented – how incredibly puzzled the opposition's proposal is, from the Progress Party to the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1218	I hear that the Minister of Finance again warns against increased use of oil money in addition to what has been proposed in the revision. I hear that the government repeatedly claims that increased use of oil money for investment will generate higher interest rates and inflation. Can the Minister of Finance then explain the inflationary effect of replacing some of our old hospital equipment and replacing it with modern equipment so that more people can be treated more quickly and the hospital queues reduced? What economic theory does the Minister of Finance support? So very briefly, we've had several rounds where we've discussed the tax exemption for the free-of-charge of base workers and tax exemptions for rent supplements. It promised the government to come back and clean up. So now you've decided to clean up from 1 July, so it's going to be a six-month effect, as well as setting new limits on this. Does the Minister of Finance feel that what is now being done in this area is in line with what has actually been promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1226	Firstly, I have a challenge to come to the Progress Party. I have to say it is very surprising to see the wording of the Progress Party in relation to the revised national budget. They have a proposal for an increase of less than NOK 7 billion and say they're just revising the budget. But from now on, from the state budget to now, the Progress Party has made a number of proposals that cost tens of billions of dollars, without them being able to explain it, and without even proposing it in the revised national budget. So it's completely impossible for the voters to know what the Progress Party is actually prioritizing, because they can't even account for it even in the revised version. So for hospital equipment. Yes, it's true, as the Progress Party says, that different ways of spending money in the economy will have different effects. If you buy equipment from abroad, there will be less pressure than otherwise, but it's not without anything, because you have new equipment, you need to have new training, new maintenance, new procedures, etc. Unfortunately, everything has an impact on the Norwegian economy, but to a slightly different extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1233	I think perhaps the state council's posts were marked by a slightly stressed finance minister, and that the post was best suited to the SV National Board meeting to convince questionable SV people. Without a proper assessment, the Government of this revised national budget has proposed to increase the tax on savings by removing the tax advantage on individual pension savings and annuities. This affects many individuals. We know that more than half of those who save on individual pension schemes make less than 400,000 kroner. We know that part of those saving annuity are traffic damage that is going to live on the return on the sum of compensation through a long life. Yesterday TV 2 could explain to us the brutal consequences of the government's proposal for traffic damage, which during the night loses one third of what they are going to live on over a year. This appears to be a rather ice-cold gust from SV. My question is whether the Council of State today will recognise that the consequences of its proposals have not been properly investigated and taken into account, and whether a review of these proposals will be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1244	The changes we are proposing in IPA and annuity are linked to the introduction of compulsory occupational pensions for all employees, including the 600 000 who have not had it before, and for self-employed workers with equal terms. This means that we have a significant tax subsidy on the pension schemes that are earned in the world of work. We have moved some of the money we spend on it, from the IPA system and the annuity system. The latter can be said not to be a pension scheme but a tax-subsidised savings scheme. It is quite clear that it is those with the highest income that have the greatest effect of this way of saving. That's the 20 pst. The richest in Norway will receive 60 pst. of the tax consolidation carried out in connection with IPA and that there are 4 pst. on the 30 pst. with the lowest income. Of course, that's because you can save different amounts. Those with low incomes save small amounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1251	Both Kristin Halvorsen and other speakers from the government side almost make it sound like the Nordic welfare model is a kind of socialist patent. There might be reason to remind you that there was a bourgeois government, with Aarvik and Kristiansen at the head, who introduced the fear of the people. When she spoke about the NAV reform, it was initiated by the previous government with the then Minister of Labour Højbräten. Then I'll follow with kindergartens. It now appears that quality can be impaired as a result of government policy. The Education Association believes that the reduction in cash support will have the same demand-stimulating effect as the reduction in the maximum price. The Education Association now expects us to see in our eyes that we will lack about 6,000 pre-school teachers in a short time. At the same time, the government cuts the support for those schools that actually train pre-school teachers. My question is, will the government now reconsider its family policy, so that it does not compromise the quality of our children?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1260	No, the government won't reconsider its family policy. We're going to keep a high pressure on the development of kindergartens, but of course we're going to follow very closely that we keep a good educational standard also in kindergartens. Quality is extremely important in this context. If I can use the rest of the time to conclude on the reply to the reply from the Right, which I know is that the Christian People's Party is also busy, namely IPA and annuity, I would like to say the following: No, the proposals that we have proposed and announced in the revised national budget are serious. The overall impact of their distribution is good. Some of those with large savings, e.g. traffic damage or other compensation may arise in a way that is not intended. To go through the traffic damage schemes and others with large claims, which should have initially been assessed on the basis of the future property tax to be paid, I will make up to the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1267	Whether it is allowed to give the Minister of Finance a little advice: I think the Minister of Finance will do well to review and assess the situation regarding IPA, annuity and tax incentives once more. In fact, it is a fundamental foundation for future pension schemes, the three legs, which are a revised social security, a occupational pension for those in service, and this possibility of individual tax-stimulated savings. It probably happened a little quickly. I am well aware that this is a proposal that has always been in the drawer of the Ministry of Finance, but no one has let it come up in daylight in this way before. That's what you do when you're in need of money. That's not what my question is. This concerns the Minister of Finance, who says that they are on the right course there too – it was again in the contribution of the Minister of Finance. In one area, the course is going in the wrong direction in relation to the Soria Moria statement, and that is the aid rate. Now I know that it is not common to correct it by the revised national budget, but it is also not common for it to fall as much as it does now. Can the Council of State assure us that, in terms of the aid rate, it will at least be on the right side of the Bondevik II government when the budget comes into place for the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1274	Of course, I cannot foreshadow what is going on in the 2007 budget. The representative of Sponheim is absolutely right. The fact that we have such a positive increase in gross national income while the budget is constant throughout the year, also on the aid side, and then the percentage falls, is a major challenge. We know that many of those who have the biggest costs of high oil and gas prices, on which we make good money, are poor countries. This is a major challenge that, of course, I come back to in the 2007 budget. In addition, I think that the representative of Sponheim should be pleased that important environmental proposals have been included in this revised national budget – proposals for which the Left obviously did not get through when they themselves put into government. For example, we have now received a tax exemption on bioethanol, which has now established the first pump – very close to myself. This provides opportunities for a much more environmentally friendly environment park, and I think that is what the Left and we agree that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1281	I understand that I had the wrong line!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1286	First, I must remind the Minister of Finance that the representatives are asking and the Minister of Finance is answering. I refer here to the question from the representative of Leirstein. I see that in the case of IPA and annuities, a alleged injustice is to be remedied with a new injustice, which is to be remedied by a just law, which is to come to correct the injustices that came with the law that Kristin Halvorsen introduced. This is a little bit complicated, this kind of policy. You try to correct an injustice with a new fair law, and then you find out that it's also unfair, and then you make a law to correct the injustice that the first law has created. My question to the Minister of Finance relates to the State pension fund – Foreign, which is today the world’s largest trust fund. It is a big paradox that, despite the fact that capital management is a significant activity for the Bank of Norway, the Government almost exclusively chooses to use capital managers located abroad to manage Norwegian people's money. The Progress Party has argued for several years to get this administration to Norway. So my question to the Minister of Finance is whether she will in the future impose on the government of the State pension fund – abroad to locate her business in Norway and create the hundreds of jobs that we create in the rest of the world today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1297	No, I don't, because the Bank of Norway manages this and buys the services they need, as they seem appropriate. If we were to quota or favor a Norwegian financial industry, I think we would have used the oil money we have on book, badly. It is a priority that the yield of the oil fund should be based on certain rules to ensure optimum returns and on the ethical guidelines in place. New guidelines beyond that are not going to come from Norway’s Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1306	The majority government has ruled the country for eight months. The state of the Norwegian economy is good, and the revised national budget contains clear political choices. More people are working, fewer are unemployed, and never before have more people been in paid employment in Norway than today. Unemployment has not been so low since the summer of 2001. There are signs of optimism and belief in the future when more people are employed in Norwegian enterprises, and there are signs of optimism and belief in the future and a result of the government's improvement in the local economy that municipalities are now betting on community and consider more people in important welfare tasks. We are doing well on the part of the Government to implement the promises we made in the election campaign. We choose common rather than tax-free, just as we promised the voters before the election. We have stopped privatising the school, strengthened employees' rights and given more to those who have the least. Now we see that this policy is producing results. New figures from the Statistical Centre show that municipalities are now focusing more on the most important tasks, in kindergartens, schools, care and care. The money they have received gives effect and provides more well-being. In the revised national budget, we continue our efforts in the community. We're continuing the historic bet on kindergartens. No more kindergartens have been built in Norway since the mid-1990s. We grant more to the hospitals, and we remove the excess of physical therapy. We start work with free learning materials and provide new money for digital learning material. We're going to the jail queues. New prison sites are being set up, and we will start building a new prison in Halden in a short time. We strengthen labour market measures by 1000 new places for disabled people. We're betting on transportation. There will be more money going on, more to bike paths and more to broadband across the country. We strengthen Norwegian economy and value creation, and we buy beach properties across the country. So we're doing what we said. We're betting on community, fair distribution and work for everyone. It means that the Government will expand and expand the community. But we also want to rebuild it. The public sector must be strengthened as well as renewed. That is why we are working on major new reforms: The pension reform for a more equitable and more sustainable pension system.A whole new organisation of social security and employment management in this country.A new policy against poverty and for inclusion, with clear obligations and clear rights. We're working on what we call welfare contracts. I am proud of the results the government has achieved in eight months. Nevertheless, this is just a beginning. We still have huge unsolved problems. Still, parents do not have childcare facilities for their children, and sick and elderly people do not receive the treatment and care they need. Still, there are school shortages, and there are people outside, not only economically, but also socially. There's little comfort for those who don't get help, that most people have it better than before. Common to all these challenges is that they are not addressed through more tax havens and more markets. They're being solved through more community. A lot is done, but the government is well under way. The country has been given a new course. We look forward to starting new tasks in the majority government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1343	The Prime Minister obviously didn't have much on his mind since he finished his post long before he had to. I guess that's an illustration of how little the government has really done in the eight months they've been running. I think most of us have seen that the Prime Minister and his two girlfriends were on Bygdøy and splashed yesterday. Of course, it's one of the big performance projects that the government has to show, that you've spent a considerable amount of money clearing a beach. There are many other important unresolved tasks that I can't see that the government has prioritised at all. It's e.g. the country's hospital. We are in a situation where health cows are unfortunately getting longer. Many of the hospitals experience a significant division of economies between themselves, and in addition, several of the hospitals have to go to redundancies because of a difficult economic situation. When does the Government intend to take the health service seriously, take the country's sick people seriously, so that we can solve the challenges that the country's health cows actually bring?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1354	Firstly, I believe that the representative Jensen may not have heard well enough after, because I mentioned the hospitals, and we are doing something about the hospitals. We have strengthened the appropriations for the hospitals in the state budget for 2006, and we are strengthening the appropriations for the hospitals in the revised budget, which are being dealt with today. So both of the budgets we've submitted have meant strengthening the hospitals. In addition, we remove excesses and we have introduced new vaccines for Norwegian children. This government has chosen to invest in hospitals. We have granted more money than before to both hospitals and other health services. We can do that because we're choosing different than the bourgeois. We choose common rather than tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1359	One of the things that strikes me when it comes to this government is that they obviously have allergies to all the schemes that are “private” in front of them. In the revised national budget, this is reflected in the choice of setting a line and creating new tax rules for private pension savings and for those who decide to be paid, for example. compensation schemes through a gradual payment over several years. What consequences it would have, obviously the Government did not think through until they started. There is also something the Minister of Finance has recognized that means a lot, not least for the many traffic damage victims who get compensation and who have to pay a lot more of it into taxes. I think it's freezing. I think it's bad work when you don't see what you're doing in advance. Then I have to ask again: until the state budget for the harvest, will you ensure that there will not be a streamlined A4 scheme for all employees, which will be the basis of the pension, so that people can secure themselves, and that people who get into an accident can secure the future of our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1364	What we do when it comes to the taxation of individual pension savings and annuities is related to the conversion of the entire pension system. What happens in that conversion is, first of all, that we get a better and stronger popular reputation. Secondly, we're introducing occupational pensions for everyone, so that everyone now wants occupational pensions in addition to popular security. Thirdly, we are now also introducing increased and improved conditions and also increased tax incentives for pension savings for self-employed people. It is the package of increased access to tax-stimulated pension savings for self-employed persons and occupational pensions that makes it fully sound to liquidate the tax incentives previously in individual pension savings. There is a long and good experience that favoring one type of saving does not increase overall savings in society, but contributes to an unjustifiable tax relief for some. Here we're talking about those who have the greatest income, getting the greatest relief from these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1369	I ate my ears when the Prime Minister spoke about big, new social reforms on the part of this government. He mentioned the pension reform, the labour and welfare reform and the poverty response. Since I was in all modesty a member of the government that presented all these reforms, I may think that the Prime Minister could take a certain amount of fuss over his predecessors. It is great that the Government is continuing these reforms, but there are no new social reforms from this government. In the setting that Stortinget treats today, it has moved to poor NOK 700000. We are pleased that it is a proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party, for which the government parties have voted in favour, a strengthening of the funds of the gatemagasine = Oslo and the like. But there is probably also an indication of the scope of action of the government parties' major groups, and perhaps also an expression of the level of ambition that the Prime Minister has in listening to good proposals from the opposition. What I'm asking is whether the Prime Minister is satisfied with this level of ambition, whether he has greater ambitions for the rest of the ageing period in cooperating with the opposition in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1376	Firstly, I think it is very positive to the extent that a broad consensus can be reached on major and important reforms. That's why it's good that there's a basis for saying that we can get broad consensus in the Storting on some of the reforms it's now working on. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is contributing. When it comes to history writing, it's kind of dependent on when you start. Work on the pension reform itself began during the previous Labour Party government, in 2000. Then a broad and good pension settlement was made here in Stortinget, where the Workers' Party and many other parties participated. Now we follow it up. There's a lot left over, and we're working on it. With regard to the reorganization of the whole welfare and poverty struggle, the whole idea of welfare contracts was something that came up on Soria Moria. I can't see that it's something that the previous government was working on. But it's excellent if we can agree between multiple parties and between the Government and the opposition about this way of thinking. NOK 700000 is a limited amount. I agree. I believe that when it comes to budgetary work, it has proved so far that it is difficult to bring about changes in the Storting. But I think it can be dialogue in other ways, for example. on pensions and welfare reform, which will ensure that the opposition is taken on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1387	I am sure that the Prime Minister feels a little relief by the fact that this is the last day at Stortinget, that the opposition travels to its own place, and that the journalists also look at the holiday lists. I also believe that this is not just about this Prime Minister. I think that applies to every prime minister. But more and more, you're facing an aggressive media reality. The Prime Minister has one of the most difficult tasks, perhaps the most difficult task you can have in a country. My problem position, perhaps with a little advice, is not linked to this, because it is part of the policy and policy dynamics. But I feel a great worry about what is happening around the Government, its circle of friends and parliamentary basis in sending dangerous signals to Norwegian business. It was now shaken around by wise people in Norwegian control rooms. It doesn't seem that much, but it's very dangerous for Norway in the long term. The Odberg thing is one element in this. The Prime Minister himself has taken some criticism for that. But there are many other aspects of what is happening, most recently in today's newspapers, that one of our most important business leaders in the last decades is doing this. Can the Prime Minister use this last day in Stortinget to assure us that there will now be peace around Norwegian business, not least where the state is owned, which means that people other than the state and politicians can have confidence in what the Government is doing? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1396	The President will recall that the speaking time for the exchange of lines is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1399	The basic objective of the government’s economic policy is that there should be growth, many employed and low unemployment – and with those goals we succeed very well. Economic growth is high, unemployment is falling sharply, and employment has never been higher. So in relation to the basic and most important objectives of success in economic policy, there is every reason to say that things are going in the right direction and in a good way. In terms of ownership, the government exercises that ownership in the way we think is right. That has been said before, and I would like to repeat it again: the question of the Governor of Statoil could have been handled better. But when it turned out that it didn't have the anchoring and was not the solution that was offered, the government took responsibility for finding a solution that created the tranquillity that Sponheim obviously wanted. And then I don't think there's any reason to make any major problems out of it. Then you do it just because you're an opposition politician and you have problems finding other things to highlight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1407	I think I'm going to start where the last replicator ended, namely with the incredible gastric plaque the government landed with in relation to the Statoil case. The government has been talking for a very long time about the need for an active policy on nutrition and ownership. The most active thing we have seen now is to the extent that the ability to create full confusion about both what is the Government's ownership policy and what is its industrial policy. It's actually relatively difficult to see what the Government thinks, and I think it's also a little dependent on the extent to which the LO is strong in the areas that are facing challenges in business policy. That being said, it is absolutely essential that ownership policies show professionalism. Everything else will cause foreign investors and potential business people to escape from state-owned companies. Can the Prime Minister assure that it is professionalism that is the main criterion of the Government and not the party books of the Government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1414	First of all, once again, the basic objectives of industrial policy are to ensure value creation, secure employment, ensure low unemployment – and that is where things are going very well. So, in relation to the overall basic objectives of industrial policy, things are moving in the right direction. Secondly, I believe that it is largely only here in the hall that you are very afraid that foreigners will escape from companies where the state is the owner. There's no sign that foreigners do it. On the contrary, there is a great deal of interest in the state companies. A lot of people buy shares and a lot of people invest in them. I believe that it is fully possible to be party politicians and professionals, both in the Advance Party, in the Workers' Party and in other parties, and I am absolutely sure that we will appoint fine-balanced directors – members with different backgrounds and different backgrounds of experience, which will make these regimes good and representative of their interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1424	I think the Minister of Finance said it quite well. We are in a very good situation, said the Minister of Finance when she was going to describe the Norwegian economy. Of course, that's absolutely true. Norway has good advice. And precisely because we are in a situation where we have good advice, we should also allow this to happen to the population differently. The finance minister was concerned that we were going to manage our oil wealth wisely, so that we could see future generations in our eyes, by investing the money properly. I agree. But we're not going to be able to see future generations in our eyes if we essentially choose to invest our oil wealth in shares and bonds out there rather than investing in future value creation and growth in Norway. There the government has a challenge in explaining why in the world it is so much better asset management unilaterally to place the surplus outside the country's borders rather than investing it in something that can give us more jobs and better growth in the future. Just the good economic situation is one of the reasons why the Progress Party has, in its revision, made proposals to reduce the petrol and diesel tax to the level that was the budget requirement for the autumn. But that budget requirement has been breached because the oil price has risen dramatically since the budget was adopted. On 14 March 1986, the government, the government of Willoch, promoted a tightening package – the so-called Easter package. There was one of the proposals to increase the fuel tax. I want to quote a little bit from St.prp. No 59 for 1985-86: «The proposal can be seen in particular in view of the fact that the sharp fall in the oil price has contributed to a sharp decrease in the domestic sales prices of petrol.» The government further wrote: ‘The proposed increase in fees could result in sales prices of petrol following the increase in fees at approximately the same level as last December’.» So the government at that time argued that setting up the levy would bring us back to the budgetary requirements and thus be sensible economic policies. When the Progress Party is now promoting a truly identical proposal, in a situation where oil prices have risen dramatically, budgetary assumptions have changed dramatically and people’s purchasing power has been dramatically weakened as a result of it, the majority in this Chamber, in the same way as in 1986, should be subject to a reduction in petrol and diesel taxes in line with budgetary requirements. But now the argument is completely different, and that's of course because you don't want to admit to the population the increase in wealth that only the state seems to enjoy. I think it's special. And I want to challenge all the parties in this room to answer why you had that argument in 1986, and a completely different argument now 20 years later. Norway has just become even richer. The situation at that time was that you needed money. So they picked it up from the population. But now that you have a lot of money, you see no reason to give it back to the people. I could imagine hearing this hall explain. So briefly summed up about this big year. We put behind us a campaign with massive promises from the current government parties. So there were no limits to what to solve just to get three in the government offices. And it is also seen in today's debate that representatives from the government parties are frantically trying to present themselves as active, acting politicians, who have been permeated by a whole lot. I think the Storting sees it a little bit different. We've experienced a few months of idleness. There have hardly been any cases of treatment in this room. It clearly shows the paralysis to which the Government has been subjected, primarily because of internal strife and unrest. But what has perhaps been one of the most obvious features so far in this government's reign has been the enormous influence of LO – the management of LO – on the governance of this government, and the marked discrimination exercised by the Prime Minister and Government in relation to the various trade unions in this country. Being organized in the Academics is obviously not good enough. It's just LO that applies. When they speak, the Prime Minister jumps. I have to say that is basically a good summary of this government's time so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1459	We have now set behind us a great year with the Progress Party as the leading party on the bourgeois side. In the previous period, we experienced a somewhat furtive advance party that did not escape Bondevik's heat. Now at the end of this year there may be reason to ask what the Progress Party will use its position as the largest opposition party to. So far, it's pretty unclear. Siv Jensen as parliamentary leader and party leader – apologies: President – stands out in television debates that bridge on the civil side, while Hagen, in line with old progress party politics, comes out with serious results against foreign citizens. So my question is, do we want to see a progress party that deliberately rides two horses – with Hagen holding the voters in the immigration case, while President Siv is going to be a bridge builder?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1466	All the proposals promoted by the Progress Party are behind us, and I can assure the representative Hill-Marta Solberg that it is demanding to have Norwegian citizens in prominent positions in the governance of Norway, yes, I think that should be lacking – that is in line with what is being done in many other countries. And then to the question of what the Progress Party is going to use its role as an opposition party to. All right. On the one hand, we have had an outstretched hand to the Government and said that you would like to come if you want to cooperate with us. It was otherwise the first invitation the government came to the opposition too, without us seeing visible traces of it. Here the Government does as it pleases, and is not at all responsive to the slightest small proposal the opposition must have for improvements in government policy. The most important job the Progress Party has in the years to come is to do everything we can to get the current government parties to be thrown straight out of the government offices, so that we can get better governance of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1473	The Progress Party does not have much confidence in the local government and proposes that public services such as care, school and social services should be financed in piece prices and that the state should pay the bill. However, municipalities shall be responsible for the provision of services. During the debate on the local economy on Wednesday, several people tried to ask the Progress Party about how to implement the proposals of the Progress Party without raging the district councils and burying the local People's Government. We did not get an answer, so I try again: how will the Progress Party implement the price-of-unit financing and the proposals for conversion without ravaging the districts and the local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1480	I would like to invite the representative Tegen to the course in the Progress Party on how to get the most pleasure of unit price financing. The whole point here is to take into account the people's interests. The Progress Party is not fully concerned that local politicians around the whole country must have the right to rule. But the citizens of our country should have the same right to good care for the elderly, to good school, to good health care, regardless of whether they live in a rich or poor municipality. The only way to do this is to give the citizens the power to decide what requirements they have to impose on the quality of care, education and health. Without using that power, you are relatively helpless in relation to a municipality that chooses to give priority to anything other than health, care and school. Unfortunately, there are many municipalities that do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1485	Being a parent gives great joy, great responsibility and new challenges. The Christian People's Party is busy giving a good start to young children's parents. We have a course called Good Start, which is an offer that many first-time parents get when they get their first child – a life course. If the Christian People's Party had implemented its policy, this course would have our nation's cover. But every time we have proposed measures on the course of life, the Progress Party has said that no, we will not spend our taxpayers' money on this. The progress party has a lot of things they want to spend money on. The Christian People's Party believes this is a good investment. Doesn't the representative Siv Jensen see that investing in a couple relationship, giving parents a life course that makes them safer on the challenges that come, can be good, preventive policies that will be useful, that can't be directly measured in crowns and ears, but that are overall very good for society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1492	I have great faith that there are many tasks politicians can do on behalf of the citizens. But exactly the internal life I think is strictly to the point that couples are able to do better themselves. To the extent that the policy is to contribute something for families, it should be possible for families to handle their daily lives with young children, which are demanding and challenging — both in time and in economic terms. There I believe that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have quite a number of common interests, namely, in increasing the freedom of choice of all families with young children, so that they can assess for themselves how their situation can be resolved in the best possible way in everyday life, without Molver Grimstad and I or other politicians being the ones who dictate how this is to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1500	The financial policy of the Progress Party is clear: both — and — stronger growth in private consumption and increased spending of money on the State budget. Total effect: many tens of billions, more are demanded in the labour market, the economy will run smoothly. One must dampen the growth impulses. What's one left? Yes, monetary policy. So what's the role of the central bank? The progress party said in Innst. O. No 101 for 2002-2003 that the law should be amended in such a way that ‘the obligation to provide services should be abolished’. So it was no longer the responsibility of the Progress Party what the central bank manager did. A competent person has relieved himself of the responsibility of the central bank. Or is it that the Progress Party has changed its position to Section 2 of the Central Bank Act, where one thus suggested that ‘the obligation to provide services should be lifted’?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1507	I was a little worried for a moment, because it can be heard on Lundtigen's posts as if we don't have a free central bank that itself and according to its own ability determines monetary policy in this country. For this is Norwegian monetary policy after it was transformed in 2001. If what Lundtigen's representative now says, is that the government is actually more involved in influencing interest rates in the Bank of Norway, I'm becoming extremely concerned. I hope the Minister of Finance can clear this up on behalf of the Government afterwards. For that type of monetary policy signal, concerns should be created far beyond Norwegian financial markets. It's not like Lundtigen says, that the government should dampen the growth impulses of the economy to avoid interest rate increase, rather the opposite. If there is one important reason to avoid pressures on interest rates for the Norwegian economy in the future, it is precisely to pursue an economic policy that increases the growth of gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1516	The Chairman of the Advance Party obviously had no clear opinion as to what she would use the size of. I record from what has been said by other speakers in this debate that the economic policy of the Progress Party, an economic policy for high interest rates and for bankruptcies in Norwegian business is an important obstacle to developing cooperation with serious parties. Is the Progress Party’s response that the parties to cooperate with the Progress Party, if any, need to adapt to the policies of the Progress Party? Or is the Progress Party’s response that the Progress Party recognises that such a policy cannot be implemented if it is to be possible to establish cooperation? Finally, let me just be allowed to correct not just a misunderstanding, but a manifest error with the representative Jensen. So it was that then Prime Minister Willoch did not get a majority in the Grand Duchy for changes in petrol prices. That's why, as you know, Willoch went off. The Group of the Party of European Socialists voted against Mr Willoch's proposal. That is why Willoch claims that the Party of Advancement threw down his government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1526	I'm very familiar with the situation. But I have also registered that neither the Workers' Party nor the SV had any inconsistency towards increasing the petrol tax at that time. What held them back was the treasure. But back to the question from Schjøtt-Pedersen. Of course, the Progress Party has a clear opinion on where we want to go. I was crystal clear on it. What we want to do is to make sure that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's own party is deprived of governance as soon as possible, so that we can speed up the economy and take more account of people most in this country. It is not that pursuing an economic policy for increasing growth in the economy automatically leads to an increase in interest rates and bankruptcies in business. Where in the world did the head of the finance committee come from? Rather on the contrary – I think the main problem lies with the sitting government, which argues that if the Progress Party gets control, the interest rate increases. How in all the world has it been that the interest rate only started to rise after this government came into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1533	President, a new mistake. The Labour Party also voted against Mr Willoch's proposal. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1538	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1541	In the revised national budget, the right has made proposals that we believe are important in contributing to opportunities for all. Then we need a different political course from that of the Government, a policy that takes into account that community is more than the public sector, that welfare is more than state support, that justice is more than equality, and that security is more than that society stands still. The right-hand side strengthens school homework by 50 million. kr, a step on the way to our goal of a knowledge school where no student is going to be hanging after. We propose 1 000 more job opportunities for people with disabilities and money for primary education for adults to contribute to a working life where those who fall outside are given a new chance. So right says no to the government's research cut, and rather proposes large increases in research and more money for road investment to contribute to an innovative business that triggers opportunities across the country. And the right is proposing 200 million. More about health, psychiatry and drug treatment, because we want a public welfare service that ensures help when we need it. But then we've also found space for some more money for culture, for example. to make the year of the cultural city of Stavanger a year and a happening for the whole country and not just for Stavanger. This is a contribution to a diverse society where people meet with respect, openness and tolerance. The State budget is an important tool in the policy toolbox. The revised budget is primarily an audit, but at least gives the opportunity to ‘fix up the bad errors from yesterday’. Then I think it is alarming that the government does not correct the 25-billion-billion-dollar cut in the Research Fund, which amounts to 800-900 million. kr less in annual research effort. Obviously, the rhetoric about an active industrial policy is not about stimulating the ability of business to create the basis for tomorrow's well-being. But instead of correcting yesterday's mistakes, the government chooses to make new mistakes. It fully reverses private pension savings. It affects 800,000 people, it affects many of those who are most vulnerable, those who are not guaranteed the standard conditions, the public A4 conditions, as many others are guaranteed. The Prime Minister proved this when he listed the reasons for doing so, because as long as you are employed, or you have a regulated, normal life, you will get better conditions in the future, but this is the air hole for those who for some reason do not have the regulated life, for those people who choose to prioritise something different than equal participation in working life for 40 years and to be employed so that you get a pension scheme and an occupational pension scheme. It's a contribution to aligning this society. I think it's freezing, because it's going to hit many of the people who need an extra income insurance when they get older, but also in a lifetime because they've been unhappy and come out for something. At the beginning of this collapse period, the Prime Minister announced that he would change the form of policy and the content of policy. There were no limits to how tidy and predictable Norwegian policy would be if we just got a majority government. This has almost evolved into a joke in retrospect. The government has changed the form of policy. When someone calls, especially from Youngstorget, the Prime Minister changes his position. Then the government has a new policy. The postponement of the announced announcement of ownership testifies to major political disagreement between the government parties. Or is it that there is disagreement between the government parties and the press groups and the financial support groups for this government? It is a problem if the changed form of policy is that the Government is now governed by forces that are not elected members of the Government. Moreover, changes in the content of policies are not very uplifting. The government lowers the knowledge requirements, weakens the transparency of schools, reduces the investment in research and innovation, runs counter to the promises, and now it seems that the promise of active enterprise policy consists in making business an ideological battlefield. And the 800,000 people who are out of work, one in four in working age, have still heard the most fine words. I fear that this government may be the government for the lost opportunities for our country. Against this we present a policy that contributes to opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1568	In winter we have heard and seen a Right who has been looking for a new profile, and who have recognised that focusing on money and taxes did not have the resounding one thought. The right shall now stand up with a social face. I listened carefully to Mr. Solberg's posts and found that there was no mention of tax credits in this post, so here the Right is obviously changing its focus. What's interesting to ask the Right Leader is how this new line from the Right fits into the dialogue with the other parties on the civil side, especially the Advance Party as the largest opposition party. Is it so that we can expect the Right Party to also influence the Advance Party to be concerned with municipal economy, care for the elderly and financing of this, just as the Right now targets it? Or is it that the proposal to sell beer around the clock is an expression of the new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1575	The proposal to remove the national maximum limits on beer is a proposal that municipalities can now be allowed to decide something that the voters might be concerned about. The second part of it is that there are limits to how much we should control the lives of individuals. I think we have a potential in our society to have more confidence in the individuals in the future. On the issue of cooperation, I feel that the revised national budget is a positive manifestation that there is agreement in many areas, but not in all, on a somewhat different course from what the Government wants in important fields between the four parties that are in opposition. One of them is symbolized by what I and the Right have spent some time in this room today, namely the possibility of living a different life than the A4 life that obviously requires all the arrangements in public, for example. the possibility of saving for own old age with a tax incentive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1583	Late last night we had an interesting vote in Stortinget. We voted on this year's agricultural settlement. The interesting thing was that the right, as the responsible party they think is, actually voted against this year's agricultural settlement. But what's equally interesting is that there was a party in addition to the Right that actually voted against, and that was the Advance Party. My question to the representative Erna Solberg is: what we are now looking at about changes in the Right's policy on asylum and immigration policy, and the fact that we are in agreement with the Progress Party towards agricultural settlement, is that the Right now has a strategy to better coordinate the two right parties in Norway, so that the next elections can have a broad right-wing option in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1588	I sometimes think that for politicians it might be wise to look a little bit at history. If you do that, you'll find that the Right has very often voted against agricultural settlement negotiated by other governments. The reason is that we have a different view of what is going to make District Norway and Norwegian agriculture stronger. We believe in more deregulation, we think it's actually wrong to tell some farmers on Sunnmøre that because they're eight pieces, they shouldn't be allowed to make common poultry that makes the village still able to have both farmers and other people who have time for leisure and who dare to invest. The type of regulation currently limits an agricultural sector that could have been better. All these restrictions today are mainly introduced through a negotiating system to which we are sceptical. We therefore want, in principle, a system of consultation on agricultural settlements and not a settlement and negotiating system, and that it is dealt with in parallel with the government budget in the autumn. [[The President clubs.]] That is also the reason why we are voting against, but we have a completely different agricultural policy from that of the Progress Party. We're not going to cut half of the agricultural appropriations overnight, as they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1593	The President would like to stress that the reply shall not be more than 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1596	Right-wing fiscal policy spokesman spoke about industrial policy, so is the Right-wing leader. The right-wing leader said that active industrial policy should not become an ideological battlefield, and it could be interesting to take a little ideological lacmus test on the Right. I don't want to get any answers now that are related to research and development. Right over there, right over there, so that's okay. My question relates to business neutrality and the situation of the different industries. The financial officer of the right said that it was not against the Right's interest to join an industrial power regime in the future. It was for the Center Party a joyful reorientation from the Right, and I am asking for a confirmation from the Right Leader that it is now also Right Policy. Further: Is it so to understand that even the Right will carry on with Statkraft organisationally, so that one can implement this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1603	I believe that if we believe that State power should be an instrument for creating a special industrial power system, we need to change the statutes of State power, and we need to have some significant changes in EU energy policy before we can do that. So the kind of premise that the representative Lundtigen is now trying to put his question to him, I'm just taking a simple distance from. But if he thinks that we want an energy policy that gives power to the industry and gives conditions of competition to the industry in the future that will keep it here, yes, we are willing to do so, but it must be within the rules and the reasonable competitive edge that we are also going to have to attach to this. When it comes to the issue of business neutrality, I would like to remind you that it was Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen who was the Council of State that last time used that word to the Stortinget. He did so when he was Minister of Finance, as a reason for their policy. We've always been for example. shall have research projects aimed at helping part of the industries to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1610	As the representative Hill-Marta Solberg was inside in his line, the Right has given the impression of being looking in the last year, and is possibly still. The impression is that the Right has found itself in a gap between a strong Progress Party, which stands for a fundamentally different society from what we have in Norway today, with greater differences, and a Christian People's Party, which marks its distance from the Advance Party and, on the contrary, will strengthen the Norwegian welfare society. Is it so that the Right, regardless of such distance, takes the support of the Advance Party for given, or – opposite – takes the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left for given. How will the Right lean and balance in a situation where the Right has become a little brother between two very conflicting siblings?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1615	I have with some amazement recorded what is the Labour Party's line in this debate related to all questions to Right-wing Representatives. It is that they do not want to talk about the content of the policy. They don't want to talk about the fact that the line shift that they said the government was going to do in many areas, just being a little bit fish pudding, to say what we tend to say in Bergen. It's kind of powerless what you've done, and then you try to be commentators for the big political game. But I hope that this hall will be used for debate on what to do for the inhabitants of this country, not on how to shape the game between parties. The right is in opposition. Yes, we've spent some time figuring out what went wrong in the election, and how we're going to build our own policy. Then it is that a party in opposition will build its policy on the content of the political issues, and then we invite those who will cooperate with us on the direction of society that we want to be with us on it. It is an invitation that has gone both to the Progress Party and to our former government cooperation partners. We know the last one a little bit better than we know the Progress Party when it comes to the possibilities of getting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1622	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1625	Our country is in an exciting time. Jens Stoltenberg definitely wrote history last October when he formed a government between three parties that have never been in a coalition before. The result so far is very promising. In a short time, the government has shown the will and ability to change the everyday life of people. We've definitely got more community. There was a strong expression when municipalities got a lot more money to solve their well-being tasks. Spokesmen and other locals could lower their shoulders and breathe easily. After several years of starving municipalities, they quickly met a new weekday. An investigation carried out shows that 75 pst. by the municipalities planned a reduction in the elderly care according to the draft budget of the Government of Bondevik II. Since the adoption of the draft budget by the government of Stoltenberg II, it is 50 pst. by the municipalities that strengthen the supply of older people. These are numbers that speak for themselves. They're expressions of the everyday life that was, and the everyday life that's around the municipalities. We now get more and cheaper kindergartens. The maximum child care allowance is significantly reduced from the new year to NOK 2 250. Well, well-being is getting a lot better for the youngest in our society. It's a pleasure. When State Council Clmet left his office, it was about. 100 applications for the creation of new private schools. If the plans of the previous government had been launched, we'd have 22,000 new private schools. Now, fortunately, the privatisation of the school has stopped. It's the public school that gets prioritised. The examination of new applications has been completed. We've got a new private school permit. In this area too, we have been given a new political course. He is visible to all who have eyes open. Exactly one year ago, the Stortinge adopted a new work environment law. It was the then ruling party and the Progress Party that made up the plural here in the hall. The promise would be put into action on 1 January of this year. She wanted to give a more brutal working life and more temporary additions, and she wanted to compromise her employees' rights. Fortunately, June's promise was never made. The new government proposes to reverse the decision made by the bourgeois parties. The new majority in Stortinget ensures that employees’ rights were passed. This is a gift for a healthy working environment and for workers' rights. The government party is very well off with its work. Many and new challenges need to be solved. The government statement as a guide will take new initiatives to strengthen the community and reduce the disparities in society. In the revised 2006 national budget, the Government will come forward with proposals and measures to guide us in this direction. The working party's aim is to continue to improve our society. The conditions for the broad groups of women and men shall be centred. The social critique should be the guide, not the system defense. In the revised budget, it is proposed to both reduce the appropriations for normal labour market measures and increase the appropriations for special labour market measures. Searchlights are specifically provided under the conditions of the disabled. The government believes that the level of action of this group should be increased by 1000 places. This is an important matter. The Financial Committee emphasises that both integrated actions and qualifying and thorough re-introduction processes should be carried out. We're dealing with a group that usually has a hard time getting into the labour market. Therefore, they should be followed up especially well. If you want to achieve your goal in this area, flexibility and interaction must be demonstrated. State agencies and action organisers must take responsibility for this in a positive co-operation. The decision is that measures and work should be adapted to the needs of the disabled with a high level of assistance. That goal is the most important one. In other words, it is not decisive that the average level of action places is 27,300. A collection of financial committees is behind this view. I therefore ask that the Government give a clear signal to state agencies to follow up the case in accordance with the declared will of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1655	The government’s proposal for a revised government budget and not least the Prime Minister’s statements earlier today clearly show that the Government lacks a vision of what it wants with Norway. In the balance of the current year's budget, the Government apologised for inheriting an unsolvable draft budget from the Bondevik government and for having only two weeks to make changes. To that it is to say that if the Government had really had a vision for Norway, two weeks and a majority in the Storting should have been enough time to make significant changes. The problem, however, was that there was no plan, there were only slogans. This is even more evident in the draft revised budget. Here, the Government is essentially continuing the policy that has been pursued in recent years. After eight months in the Treasury, State Council Halvorsen is so satisfied with the state of things that she finds room only for spending $4 billion, money that has fallen to the state treasury for all over the world because of higher tax revenues and more dividends from state-owned and partly state-owned companies. Even in an exceptional good economic time for Norway, the Minister of Finance does not find room to make real promises in any sector. There's a million here and two million there, almost on the basis of headlines in the media. Where are the visions? Where does it come from in the fields of transport, justice, energy and health? Quite simply, what does the government actually want with Norway? For the Progress Party, politics is about wanting something, about having a vision for the future. Norway’s financial strength places the country in a unique position to take action that other countries can only dream of. The Progress Party therefore challenges the Government to join us in building the world’s best infrastructure – nothing less! Let us challenge together those who claim that our oil wealth can only be used to strengthen business and infrastructure in our competitors. Let us show together all those who claim that Norway cannot have the world's best hospital equipment, the world's best equipped police and defense forces, the world's best road network, the world's best educational equipment for school students. Let's stop telling each other why it's not possible, but rather focus on the possibilities. Let's together have a vision of entrusting our children and grandchildren with a world-leading infrastructure that promotes learning and research in the education sector, a business that can carry its goods quickly and fairly, a police force with the equipment they think is required, and a hospital that can treat patients at the time they need it. Unfortunately, such visions are not part of the Government's declaration of adventure. And it's often the longer you've been involved in the political game, the less concerned you are with delivering results. That's the game that gets most important. However, in draft revised budgets, the Government has taken a major step forward. The Minister of Finance has stolen DKK98 billion from the State pension fund – Norway, the former Swedish Social Security Fund. She has done this by paying back only NOK 10 billion of a loan of NOK 108 billion. This is money like the time when the Swedish Social Security Fund was required to lend to the Treasury, so that the State could lend the same money to, among other things. The Home Bank and the Loan Fund. Taxes are levied by the state, placed in the Swedish Social Security Fund, forcibly borrowed back to the state, which again borrows the money further. So when at some point the state no longer needs to borrow money from the Swedish Social Security Fund, the Minister of Finance does not pay the money back. She's confiscating them! This can be seen as nothing but a run from the Social Security Fund. The fund gets its real value halved with a pen stroke. It reminds me of a colleague of mine who, during a trip, was appointed as a travel manager. In one pocket he had a pile of notes that belonged to the club, and in the other a pile of notes that were his private. If the tour manager had followed the Halvorsen logic, it wouldn't matter what money my colleague spent, because the pants were the same anyway, and it was his knowingly. It surprises me that today's business as the only newspaper has picked up this obviously biggest news in the revised budget. But perhaps it is too complicated for the people of the press department, who are not even present, to deal with a debt of DKK 100 billion of taxpayers' money. Then it probably gives a higher status in the newspaper editorials to focus on the hairdressing bills, taxi trips and seminars of the staging representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1676	The first major year after the 2005 elections ends today. In several areas, social developments are turning around. The direction is different from the direction we saw from the Bondevik government. We're slowing down privatisation. We focus more on community and fair distribution. We spend the big money on the important welfare and care systems. The debate on tax relief has ceased. No one's even asking for it. Even the Right has come to the conclusion that there are other things than tax relief that are important to people. All the fears that a red-green government would destroy the economy have also been silenced. Of course, things are going very well in the Norwegian economy. In the revised national budget, the Government promotes a number of important measures, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. It's more for kindergartens. It's more for transportation. Own shares are removed. There are increased subsidies to health enterprises. It's the development of digital learning materials in school. There is more to broadband action. It's environmental measures. It's a bet on bringing down the nesting cows. All of this is in line with the Government's statement. Several major and important issues, in line with the policy objectives of the Government Declaration, are under way, with major messages and propositions on well-being, inclusion, retirement and state ownership, to name a few. These are big things that, together with the state budget, will shape the work of the Stortinget coming harvest. As I said, much is good in Norway, and the economy is going well. There is optimism in business. Unemployment has been reduced since the government change. Although the level of unemployment is low, there are still groups struggling to fit into the labour market. We are concerned with those who still have problems in the labour market. The Government proposes to strengthen efforts for disabled people by 1000 more places. The impact of a new political course is felt most strongly in the municipalities. The strong growth in the municipal economy this year is giving more care to the elderly and a better school. There's still a lot of speed in kindergarten development, and the parental payment is reduced. All this is in line with the Soria Moria declaration. It has been asked many times along the way questions from parts of the opposition whether they would have the effects they thought when investing in the local economy. Now we have documentation for that. The bet has come where the government has provided it. I would like to mention two areas for which the political course has been reversed. The planned privatisation of the school has stopped. It's a very important principleal question. We don't want the privatisation of Education Norway, and that's why there's a new law that strengthens the common school. The reversal of the previous government's proposal on temporary additions and reduced job protection is another important change in course. We are engaged in a working life for everyone, with good working conditions. It is a competitive advantage for Norwegian business, not a hemshoe, as the other political wings appear to be. Yesterday, the Stortinget dealt with the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas north of Lofoten. The management plan facilitates new activity in the north and provides a good balance between environment and industry. Through the Northern Region Policy, the Government has launched an offensive for the Northern Areas. The operational activity has been increased for both Coast Guard and Orion aeroplanes. New optimism characterizes the northern part of the country. When we close the spring session here in Stortinget and then each one travels to ours, I travel to a part of the country and to a state of faith in the future and many positive developments. There are start-ups, increases in value creation and a sharp increase in exports that characterize much of our business life in the districts. Recently, the ESA made a difference in the employer’s payroll, which is undoubtedly the best and most targeted regional and regional policy instrument we have. We all know the role of the opposition. We're there every time. The role of the opposition is to attack the government, everyone understands. Of course, many tasks have not been solved after eight months. Neither is anyone from the government parties who gives the impression that we've solved all the problems, that we've achieved all the goals, that we've fulfilled all the promises. But there's reason on the part of the government parties to sum up now in ours saying that we're doing well to fulfill the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. With this I wish everyone a good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1711	It was a nice greeting, but here we continue. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1716	The last thing the speaker was talking about, I think we can agree on, across all sorts of party boundaries. When we discussed the revision last year, the Workers' Party, and in particular the current parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, was very concerned with the economy of the hospitals. It was flagged as the great cause of the Workers' Party against the sitting government and also to try to come up with criticism of the Advance Party. Now that the Workers' Party is in position, we see in this revised budget, despite the fact that we know the hospitals are struggling, and despite hearing about closures and redundancies, that only 100 million are being flagged. more to hospitals, which are then to be targeted at the distribution of inequalities between health regions. Is it true that the representative of Solberg is satisfied with the efforts that government parties are now showing in this revised budget, in relation to hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1727	I'm trying to think back, and I don't remember a single cross-broadcast in Stortinget where the hospitals' economy hasn't been strengthened, often in addition to what the government has proposed. So it's a long story in terms of getting into the goal of finding that we have a safe and solid hospital economy. The government of Stoltenberg saw it when the budget was on the table last fall, and therefore increased the effort in Hospital Norway and strengthened the economy of hospitals by half a billion in addition to what was proposed. There has also been a strengthening of the economy in this redistribution. Here the sitting government provides for the creation of bias beyond what was decided in the Storting, precisely because it is recognised that this is too big a problem in the health regions that are most heavily affected by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1734	Anyone who has followed the debate since last autumn sees that business policy has begun to become a serious problem for the Government. The promises of a more active industrial policy, combined with accusations against the previous government of inaction and business neutrality, have created high expectations. These expectations have been followed up by the Government by cutting back on the most central tools for industrial research and innovation in Norway. And they've cut $25 billion in the Research Fund. At the same time, taxes have increased, road construction promises have been forgotten, and there have been several helpless attempts to interfere with individual enterprises. This policy is pursued in the revised national budget. The Minister of Industry recently suggested in the Newspaper that the image of the Enterprise Policy Toolbox should be replaced by a food policy jewelry box. It does mean that real action is to be replaced by symbolic decoration. Can the representative Hill-Marta Solberg assure us that we will soon see a proper investment in value creation, or is the active business policy on the way straight down the jewelry box of the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1741	I don't know how well the representative Hansen knows about what's in a jewelry box. Often there is something quite valuable and noble lying there. If you can set up some noble and valuable tools, you can get a very good deal into business policy as well. So in my opinion, the Minister of Industry has a wise approach to the importance of those instruments. The most crucial thing about how business policy works is how it works in the economy and how it goes about employment. And here the opposition in one post today has not criticised the Government, for everyone has to realize that things are going very well in the Norwegian economy, things are going well in the business world, employment is increasing, and unemployment is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1753	The other day I received an e-mail from LO in Trondheim, where they among other things. wrote the following: ‘LO in Trondheim expects the Stortinget to contribute to solving the financial problems of St. Olavs Hospital mhp. operation and investment in Phase II new hospital to meet the health needs of the population.» LO in Trondheim refers to the situation right now, with unexplained conditions around the balance requirement, that psychiatry agents age the somatic deficit, and that the board has decided to lay down a bed post at the hospital. In addition, they refer to the misalignment of Health Middle Norway, which is also a reality for Health West. They further point out that if construction stage II is not realised, ‘it would be a disaster for the confidence of the trade union movement and the population’ in the region. The Government has rejected all opposition proposals to provide more funds to the two health regions mentioned above in the context of the revised national budget. My question is this: does the Labour Party parliamentary leader have a council on what answer I should give to LO in Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1765	The first advice I want to give to the representative Davøy is to think through what that government representative himself was a member of, contributed to the hospital side of the previous period. Then they had four years to sort out the balance situation in Hospital-Norway. You never did. It also strives to sort out the government that has now taken over. It's a matter that the Minister of Health is also working on. As I also said in my previous line: When the government of Stoltenberg now proposes to speed up the creation of this bias, it actually goes further than the plan of creation that the Storting decided to base. What is now proposed is to correct the bias rate faster than what was actually at the root of the Storting. It's an expression that the government is taking the situation seriously, and as soon as possible wants to correct the bias that we know exists between health regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1772	The representative Lundtägen from the central government party said a little earlier in the debate that we need to reduce private consumption and private investment, because the total activity in the Norwegian economy was too high. That was interesting. Let's assume that the representative Lundtigen is in line with the government, it's not that often, but let's assume it. What, then, is the background to bet so much on so-called active enterprise policies and, for example, on the use of drugs. to grant SEK 1 billion to Innovation Norway, or to invest in increased tourism – just a few paces in business, as Hill-Marta Solberg also boasted of earlier – if there is already too much investment in Norwegian economy and private consumption is too high? Would it not then be wiser to cut off all support for Innovation Norway, so you could not get the private growth and the public could take over?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1777	I think this is a glittering illustration of the fact that the Progress Party has never understood how the instruments in e.g. Innovation Norway works. I am more than happy to use my own home country, Nordland, as a good example – a district government that has had great joy and benefit from Innovation Norway's instruments. There has been a large number of jobs that would not have been created without such instruments. We have to recognize that even when there is pressure in the economy, this is divided differently. In some parts of the country there is a lot of pressure. In other parts of the country, it is necessary to stimulate economic development and innovation. This is also the way in which the instruments exist, for example: Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1782	The representative stressed that Norway was doing well. A lot is going well. But what is important in Norway, for generations to come, for generations to come, and for the unborn, is our research. The current government cut research efforts, we know, in the budget for the current year. What I think was far more frightening – especially for a representative who belongs to a party that has a sense of splinter and skill, if I may express myself this way – concerns the generous scheme that invites private funding for research. Now private actually gives more than the current government parties thought possible, but when the private give more, the government answers to cover what is given more, by cutting off other research funds. Does the representative think that there is a fair way to receive an outstretched hand from civil society? Does the representative think that's an OK way to make cracks and hard work? Does not the representative also agree with me that we should complete the research effort in the New Ålesund, so that when the Americans get there, to which the Government is reasonably invited, we take it completely out? Unfortunately, this is not the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1790	First of all, I want to say that I have a very great sense of split layers, and that also helps to shape the Labour Party's policy in very many areas. The picture of research in Norway and the effort there is not that it is the public effort on the research side that makes us significantly lagging behind, but the fact that private efforts are much lower in Norway than in many other countries we can compare with. That's why we're coming together with a lower research effort. The Research Fund shall be built up and strengthened. It has also become regular and annual, and it will continue to be. With regard to the efforts Norway has made to develop and facilitate research on Svalbard, it is very impressive and good. And I'd like to do some work so that we can also fill these very nice facilities that we've arranged for up there, with as many researchers as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1801	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1804	Predictability is important in economic and tax matters. For this reason, it has been common for tax changes in the audited budget to have been small — and, as a rule, to be determined at least. It is therefore not surprising that there will be reactions to the significant tax incentives now proposed for private savings. It gives the impression that there is no need to give rise to tax increases. The introduction of taxation on individual pension contracts and the removal of tax exemptions on annuities is quite different and has quite different consequences from those normally seen in the revised budget. I don't think it's unexpected with tax increases from the Government – that's the opposite that would have been unexpected. What is unexpected is that it is improvised and disconnected from an impact assessment. It is a dramatic new tax on Norwegian savings. More than 800000 persons have established opportunities for such saving. The Pension Commission, and later on with the Storting pension agreement, is based on three main pillars: social security, labour market pension schemes – and private pension savings. The change that is now taking away one of the pillars: private savings by removing the tax advantage. This is a tax on the saving of ordinary people, not on the building of wealth, as the Minister of Finance seems to assume. It is the kind of assumption that would at least be given clear counter-conceptions if an impact assessment had been carried out. In that case, it would not be necessary in the budgetary documents to indicate that this is used by people with high incomes and wealth, since it would have to retreat, in a reply to the Right Big Group, which admits that more than 50 pst. of those who use IPA, have a gross income of less than 400000 kroner and many earn less than 250000 kroner gross. This means that even in the budgetary documents a search for the'more to the rich' rhetoric from the election campaign has to be done to bring the facts to light. But now it's no longer a campaign, now it's serious, and someone's going to live with or of the results that make decisions. By investigating this, perhaps sending it to the hearing, one would also find out that many saves through IPA just to get better pension solutions than the minimum solutions you otherwise get. This is paradoxical in a country with a solid savings tradition and the inherited integrity of generations. In an investigation, it might be possible to get in touch with interest groups, such as: National Traffic Damage Association. They could have told of a few thousand young people who have placed their one-off annuities in the assurance that the return will improve the offer they receive from the public — a public offer that, in any case, can never be good enough for such fates. It is also a fact that the insurance claims measurements have taken into account that it is not to be calculated property taxes. It is not useful to come back to the company and say that you now have a third less in return because the government has changed the rules of the game. It will also be possible to get input from others — from the Oversight and others who manage money — that these are bad solutions. Just because you can ignore such groups tells me that these 800,000 potential savers deserve a completely different investigation. The shields are not only undetected, but they are also socially very poorly thought out. I have to say that in particular the last time a finance minister from SV dresses very, very badly. I understand that the committee leader at the beginning of the debate, in his panegyrian speech on what to do, not least for the weak, had no opportunity to go into the details of any thousand traffic damage. We're busy. I also hope that the Minister of Finance will use his restless social conscience to clarify this. Now she has said today that she will look at the situation of the traffic victims. There's only one catch by this, and that's that this is one thing that the media have pointed to. There are several cases that will emerge in the wake of this debate and in the wake of the media debate. There is only one way to do this, and that is to fully investigate the consequences of the whole proposal. You are undoubtedly on a strange terrain and have not been equipped with maps. And as far as I can see, the most sensible thing must be to turn around or at least find a very adjusted course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1821	Norway has a proud tradition as a precursor to environmental protection. Through measures at home and through international work, we have contributed to a better environment. Norway has signed many environmental commitments, and if Norway is to maintain its status as an environmental nation, it is absolutely necessary that we do everything we can to maintain them. At the same time, we have to do it in a way that doesn't result in us shifting the environmental problems and burdens to other parts of the world. The Gothenburg Protocol is an important international environmental agreement that obliges us to significantly reduce NOx emissions by 2010. We have known for a long time about these challenges. After four years with a civil government, where little or nothing was done, it is therefore a great task for the red-green government to reach that goal. There is also a background for the Government in revised alerts that it intends to introduce a NOx fee. However, a charge in itself does not necessarily contribute to large enough reductions in NOx emissions. It is the device and the emission control measures that trigger such a charge, which will be decisive. My opinion is that industry, shipping, fishermen, land-based industry, oil, etc. Takes these environmental problems seriously and will contribute to meeting the commitments set out in the Gothenburg Protocol. Close and good dialogue between authorities and business will therefore be very important for obtaining desired results. Shipping and fisheries account for a large part of the NOx emissions we have. Although the profit is good in parts of the fleet, we know that many are struggling with poor economy – especially those in the coastal fleet, those who are struggling along the coast. They also experience strong competition from the truck industry. When the goal is to have more goods at sea, we need to pay particular attention to this industry when we now charge it a fee. We can't risk the industry on the coast disappearing. One instrument to reduce NOx emissions is the transition to gas. An active strategy for the construction of several gasships will therefore be an important contribution to fulfilling the obligations set out in the Gothenburg Protocol. The revised budget also contains a force measure against the cows and for better housing conditions. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government announced that it would give priority to strengthening the criminal justice system, and in 2006 close to 250 prison sites will be established. It is proposed in the revised budget to establish 90 open places at the Vestlandsheimen in Bergen and 60 places in Bruvoll camp in the North Odal. This is capacity-enhancement, with measures in those regions where the problem of queues is greatest in terms of housing in prison. Work on the establishment of Halden prison also continues as planned, with the establishment of 251 places in 2009. At the same time, the content of the deposit will be increased by 7.4 million. DKK for education, libraries and health services for prisoners. Thus, in total for 2006, the Government has cut back more than 35 million. kr for strengthening the housing conditions. We also need to strengthen the possibilities of a crime-free life after atonement. It's one of the most important things in criminal policy. Removing the long queue also reduces the pressure on the police in terms of transport. This gives more police force to be able to face both the crime of profit and the serious organised crime. This is a comprehensive policy for more security in Norway. In the future, we need to focus more on settlement conditions, on a better offer in prisons, and, not least, on a better follow-up of the repeats when they come out after settlement, so that we can get them out of crime, which is the greatest danger in terms of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1853	We've been behind the first big year since 1985 with a majority government. Before the elections, Jens Stoltenberg was driving an intense agitation for the excellence of majority governments. People were supposed to vote on the red-green to let go of games, spectacles, rematches and all that hesitated, he said at the NRK People's Meeting on 16 August last year. Then we got a majority government, and we got everything else on the purchase. The majority board has not become the Soria Moria that the election propaganda predicted. On a case-by-case basis, the disagreement between the government parties and within the government parties has emerged. Some have even taken demonstration trains against their own government. Things like Governorial elections in Statoil, school prayer, boycott of Israel, support for Hamas and oil activity in the north are examples that it has not been so calm and intractable at all. It is also a bad sign that major issues that have been notified to the Stortinge this year are not yet advanced. To this extent, it is understandable that a government which has major challenges in its internal cooperation chooses not to involve itself with the opposition when it is not allowed. But here, too, we experience something different from what the Prime Minister declared when he got to grips with his work. Then he invited the entire Storting to a collaboration where he would draw on knowledge and competence also in the opposition. The correctness shall be correct. Some of his state councils are going through with this. For example, State Council Sylvia Brustad will have the honour to follow up the Christian People's Party's initiative for cross-political hard work on the future care of the elderly. And we're happy that the cuts to private nurses' schools and to Amathea are straightened out. But the general picture is a government that doesn't need the opposition, and therefore neither asks it, listens to it, nor cooperates with it. That's okay. They have a majority. But it's not wise. Over four years, the three government parties have built up their expectations individually and together about all the good measures that would be given money, about all the small and big problems that would be solved – about how fine and great everything would be. There are probably a lot of people who have been disappointed this year about all the election promises that so far have not been taken care of: interest increases eat up the wage increase for many. Where's the water in the swimming pools? Where have the new measures been taken in the field of poverty? What about the cash beneficiaries, who have received 357 kroner less to live on each month, despite promises that the cash support would be protected until 2008? The Christian People's Party, when revising the budget, has put in focus the most difficult people, the ones who work the most. We're betting more than 3,000 places for disabled people than what the government is doing. We put in an action package for addicts through health businesses as well as private institutions. We restore the level of cash support and strengthen community measures and offers to families with disabled children. In addition, last year we will raise the government's budget for friary buildings and private colleges, and we will focus more on racial protection. Together with the other opposition parties, we also propose full social security rights for self-employed workers, but none of these are supported by the majority parties. The Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Party, and we are a center party. In the vote on the revised budget, the Christian People's Party and the Left have a common note in which we draw up some of the values and issues that characterise the centre parties in Norwegian policy: focusing on small entities and cultural and human values protection on family and the community family policies with a focus on freedom of choice and good care for voluntary activities active district policies that contribute to living and viable rural development efforts on education and responsibility for environmental competences, where the management concept and responsibility for future generations are governance balances between public and private sector-based distributions, both nationally and internationally. In the core wall of the whole, a society is built on a solid value foundation, embedded among others. through our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage, a society in which man is at the centre of social building and of the institutions of society, and where concepts such as freedom of spirit, tolerance and personal freedom are guiding. The Christian People's Party cooperates on a case-by-case basis with all parties on the Stortinget. It's the content of the policy that decides who we're working with. We're not showing disagreement for the sake of the disagreement. We are committed to finding good solutions to the issues we are concerned about, for the benefit of the people who live in our country. In the political situation we now have in Stortinget, this particular consideration would have been that there was room for something more interaction between the Government and the opposition than the setting of the revised national budget testifies to. Moving the poor NOK 700,000 doesn't give much room for manoeuvre, neither for the government parties here in Stortinget, nor for the interaction between the Government and the opposition parties, which the Prime Minister has stated knowingly that he wants. I therefore challenge the Government and government parties to think through how they want this interaction to take place during the rest of this great period. This has been a test year for many of us. Now we have three years left to do this in a better way for the people we're set to serve here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1902	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1905	I would like to follow up the representative's invitation or arrangement for an interaction between the Christian People's Party and the Government. I've also said that in the past. I believe we have seen that in some areas, as the representative Højbrätten also pointed out. I think it's important to develop it. I also think it is positive that the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote give a raw reward to the Government for having prioritised a strengthening of the local economy. We have seen that the Christian People's Party has just been committed to strengthening the local economy. That's what this government has done. We have seen a stop in the privatisation of the school, which very many of the Christian People's Party's teams around the country have just asked for. We have seen a strengthening of rural policy, at the latest through the Single European Act that is being presented today. We see a continuation, a development, of welfare policy, which the High Commissioner is also concerned about. My question is: is this political development a shift in policy that draws political development closer or removes what is the Christian People's Party's value base?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1914	It's true that we've given a rough comment on the bet on the municipalities. There is no one in Kommune-Norge who regrets that the Government has invested more in the municipalities in this year's budget. Neither does the Christian People's Party. But when the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen tries to take the Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party party to the income of the strong tightening that the Government has done in relation to the primary schools, he is out in a rather unclean waters. Because it is quite clear that the emergency stop introduced by the Government in relation to fresh schools, as it said before the elections, namely those who constitute a religious, life-seeking or pedagogical alternative, has no support whatsoever in the Christian People's Party. It is quite right that we are satisfied with the commitment to an older reform. But we are not satisfied with the many confrontations the Workers' Party has aimed at the Christian People's Party on important issues of value, not least in terms of the biotechnology law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1921	In the last period, Dagfinn Højbrätten was in a government that decided that the expenditure of the State budget and its growth would be an increasingly smaller proportion of the total economy of the country. In other words, the difference between the wealth we saw developing among the private, and as many, many people marked, and the level and quality that we had in the public sector, was going to be greater and greater. This was contrary to the Christian People's Party programme, which said that we should have a balanced development between the private and public sectors, and that is contrary to our government programme, which says that the growth of public expenditure on the state budget should be greater. Then is my question to the Christian People's Party concerning economic policy in the future: Will the Christian People's Party choose more tax laws, as stated in the Sem Declaration, or will they choose more fellowship, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1928	The representative Heikki Holmås gives a somewhat distorted description of the political basis of the previous government. It is true that it was a goal – a goal we achieved, as far as I remember – that public expenditure should not exceed the growth of the economy. And it's pretty important in an economy, that it's a private sector that creates the values that we want to distribute. SV are experts to distribute, but it is also important that the values are created somewhere. The Christian People's Party will not, during this period, give priority to major new tax concessions. That's what we said in the election campaign. So that's what we're going to say. On the other hand, we will not be responsible for an irresponsible economic line, where we allow the public sector to grow more than the growth of the economy provides. Because it helps to distort the value creation that is absolutely necessary in the private sector, in order for us to have good welfare arrangements in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1941	The centre party follows with interest the borderline of the Christian People's Party towards the right. We have seen it this week in two major cases – first in connection with the treatment of the municipal proposition, where the Christian People's Party will now have both elderly and more health professionals after four years of government, and we saw it in connection with the treatment of the administration plan for the northern regions, where there was every reason to wonder what they had actually got into the right. Then the Christian People's Party and the Left in the setting today need their own comment to tell them that they are located in the center. It promises very well for future cooperation. They want to focus on a good balance between the public and private sectors, a fair national and international distribution, a living government, family and community, districts, education, culture and voluntary participation. My question to the Højbrätten is: Is it at the moment's government, or is it in law with the Right, he will be strengthened precisely this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1951	The first thing I want to say is that I had expected that when the central parties of the Left and Christian People's Party add up centre values in such an important political position as the one of the revised national budget, the centre party had joined it. But there is obviously no such room for action under this majority government that they could be allowed to join something that is common to the Center Party and the other two central parties in Norwegian politics. Secondly, I have to say that we are satisfied with several of the things that the new government has done, not least that we have continued what we started in preparing for an older reform II. It's not like there was something this government invented. On the other hand, I have to say that I am very disappointed with the Central Party with regard to the many cuts of the Center Party, which in the case of cash support, in the case of Norwegian Teacher Academy, in the case of free church building, in the case of the local Norwegian Church. About the fact that the Center Party has not been able to fix this afterwards, I can say that as the representative Meltveit Kleppa told me in many rounds of the previous period: I had not expected that from the Center Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1960	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1963	We in the Center Party wanted a change of government because we believe that resources and opportunities in this country should be managed in a more wise and forward-looking way. The last week of the spring session confirms full important changes, such as a high rate of alternative energy, a differentiated employer's fee introduced in 204 municipalities and a compensation for those who do not experience reintroduction, DKK 8 billion more in free income for the municipalities in two years, a management plan for the northern regions, with a good balance between industry and the environment, today, on Lucky Næroset, a new district and regional notification and then a decision here in Stortinget: a revised national budget which is an additional step in the right direction. Let's get more involved in transportation. We know that every kilometer of new asphalt is important for construction and business. 50 million. kr to broadband will provide far more than currently connected to networks. We are very pleased that the Government is proposing to remove Bondevik II's unsocial feature of physiotherapy, and we are looking at over 1,000 more areas of action for the disabled, and at the intensification of efforts to provide housing-free shelters. A national centre for women’s health is established. The government suggests a number of smaller measures that mean too many people are in their everyday lives. It is good that people in Stranda no know that the mountain party in the Åkerneset is to be monitored and that the Minister of Agriculture has a tracking system in place in the food chain. We are also very pleased that national and local liming projects can be carried on, that an information and expertise centre for wildrein is set up, and that several ownership sites are secured for outdoor purposes. Then the government follows up with considerably more kindergartens and reverses cutbacks in studios and private high schools. The local newspapers are important democratic squares. The government promised compensation for increased postage expenditure and keeps words. One of the changes made in the tax system is the law for self-employed persons to deduct from their pension scheme, a follow-up to the pension agreement, with the central lot stamp. Changing the rules for the collection of property taxes increases local freedom of action for the municipalities that use it. There is a move that has been made. After eight months, however, the government shows a clear profile: an offensive business and district policy, better local welfare provision and the fight against increased disparities. We register with interest the note that the Christian People's Party and the Left have written in today's setting, and that tells what values they actually represent. They need to prepare here in Stortinget, and they need to clarify it to people, that they're actually a center party. From our side, we didn't need to go into such a comment. We believe that the policy now under way by the Government shows a good balance between the public and private sectors, shows a fight for fair national and international distribution, focuses on a more living government, takes care of both the family and the community, has a more active district policy and bets on education, culture and volunteering. We thought it was uplifting with this clarification from the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we look forward to good cooperation with the other two government parties and with the Christian People's Party and the Left in major, important matters ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1982	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1985	I have recorded that almost all the figures for the government parties today are very busy removing this social advantage, as they express it. But it was then, of course, only the Progress Party who voted against introducing it, so that in that case you can fix your own bomb from last autumn. But what I want to say is that in the last period we experienced a centre party that was much more proactive when it came to interpreting the rule of action and how they distinguished a use of more oil money for sensible investments – it was in District Norway, in Norwegian cities or to Norwegian infrastructure. Now the Central Party is behind the foundation of government, and is very clear in all documents that the rule of action should be applied, that it should be followed, and that it should be a so-called responsible, economic policy. Does this mean that the Central Party believes that the policy itself was not a responsible, economic policy? Or what's happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1992	Let me say first of all that when it comes to the creation of proposals from the previous government, no one should doubt that both the Centre Party and the other government parties are concerned about the possibility of taking part in the labour market and the possibility of taking part in periods of illness. We actually saw this feature as an unsocial contribution for many of those who go between work and illness, and are especially pleased that it has now changed. Nor should anyone be in doubt that we stand firm on our focus from the Center Party in the previous period for a strengthened infrastructure. It's not for nothing that today's government of three weeks actually got a stronger boost on trade than the Progress Party managed in the entire previous period, despite in three budget comparisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e1999	No matter how much the government parties boast, it is a fact that the government's rhetoric for a warm community from the election campaign has in reality become a cold shoulder to many of the worst-placed in society, such as. drug abusers. According to the Research Council, this is the worst budget since the last Stoltenberg government. I could mention more examples, but I'll mention it that tops the list of pettyness from the Government. The Minister of Renewal has closed the speech portal, the information service for disabled, blind and elderly people who cannot use the Internet. They estimated a cost of 300,000 to be too high, despite the fact that there are several thousand people using this offer. Of course, the right has put in the 300,000, and I ask: how is it possible for a former social minister who has a heart for the disabled to support the proposal to shut down the speech portal? I would also like to ask if she will take the initiative to restore this language portal for disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2006	It is clear from both the Soria Moria Declaration and the Government's policy so far that in the government parties here in the Stortinget and in the various departments we are concerned with countering increasing differences. It also means that we have many concrete projects to provide the disabled with a better everyday life, and that means that we will intensify both the prevention work for drug users and the provision of treatment. It may be that in an intensive budgetary process, good proposals can be made that can be worth looking at. I thought that today's setting gives a very good balance and provides an additional boost in the fight against increased differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2013	This government is in the process of becoming Norway master in explanation. I will justify it with the following: The representative of Meltveit Kleppa was in favour of physical therapy that this government was so happy that it was able to remove, as some of the unsocial from the government of Bondevik II. It is with respect to announce to move reasonably far away from the truth. In the context of the current year’s budgetary procedure, the government parties were standing on the pulpit here in Stortinget to tell why this excess could not be eliminated, and that they therefore voted in favour of it – only the Progress Party voted against. My question is this: We are now receiving a lot of reports of out-of-town savings, preferably from local hospitals that need to close departments in summer, which have problems maintaining the offer. There are drug-related defects, and you can't afford them. This government soon, like the only government in recent years, has not been able to grant one more penny to hospitals in addition to the small establishment of the distribution of inequalities between health businesses. How does the representative Meltveit Kleppa view this in a district policy perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2022	It is not unknown that the Progress Party will reconstruct with large words. I might think that Norwegian masters are something that the Progress Party must take on again, not least when we have honestly and sincerely corrected the aspect of physiotherapy, because we clearly got a lot more insight into the effects that this proposal would give, and that was from Bondevik II. So to the hospital sector: the center party, unlike the Progress Party, is concerned that we should secure a good and equivalent public hospital supply, with private hospitals as a supplement. No one should doubt that we should still be on the barricades to secure the local hospitals. That is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2029	The representative Meltveit Kleppa said that it was not necessary for the Center Party to sign the values of the Left or Christian People's Party. I wonder if that might be interesting, because the Central Party is in a government where you, for example, sit. cutters in support of institutions as important as the private colleges of voluntary civil society performing social tasks. You can recover some of the $4 million cut. kr, but still there are institutions that train e.g. pre-school teachers and teachers who have been cut. On the left, we have seen it as so important that we have made a proposal earlier today, together with other parties, to just look at the status of volunteers. Let me make it clear: when it comes to research, where the government that's sitting here really didn't believe that civil society or private people would make contributions at all, we get a triple of the private contributions. The answer to the government is that instead of bringing the money you need in addition, you take the money you have already given from the public. Does the representative of Meltveit Kleppa think this is a good signal for non-profit efforts in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2037	Private Highlights First There's no doubt that the Center Party believes that these schools are an important supplement, and that they carry out important tasks in addition to the public high school system. It also says the Soria Moria Declaration. We want to secure funding for these schools in the future. I believe that there should now be a review of the backbone of this type of hive, so that there is still a good economic foundation for both the Teacher Academy and for other private high-sphericals. When it comes to research, many different claims have been put forward by the parties from Bondevik II. The fact is that research is significantly increased also in the 2006 budget compared to previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2044	The Christian People's Party is engaged in a strong voluntary sector, and we want a good framework for sports, cultural organisations and Christian organisations. We think it is sad that the support for, for example. private church buildings have been removed, and we think it is petty that these organizations, which build a lot on hard work and do a good job for children and young people, do not get this dear state aid. Does not the representative Meltveit Kleppa share the view that it is painful that this money has fallen out of the state budget – and not taken into account? In this case, what will the representative Meltveit Kleppa do to ensure that the support for private church buildings will come back?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2049	The voluntary sector and the work being done there are invaluable. There may then be different support mechanisms to ensure that this work is continued and strengthened. It's e.g. so that in the 2006 budget, today’s government has made room for ten new centres for volunteers. The government also has a cultural lift where the first piece is in place. There's a bet that's going to go all the way to 2014. I believe it will be possible in the future to agree on a strengthening of the voluntary sector between the Left Party and the Christian People's Party and the Government Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2054	Like many others, I am happy that the Norwegian economy is going well. There are few countries in the world that can point to similar results as Norway. The main objectives of this government's economic policy are the fight against unemployment and fair distribution. If the economy is dominated, it's the weakest that's hit hardest. In this proposal for a revised national budget, the Government and the majority take account of the objective of protecting employment and the community. In a revised national budget, there is the revision we are going to do. There is no new budgetary procedure, which can almost get the impression when looking at the alternative budget of the Progress Party, and not least when adding the costs of Document No of the Progress Party. Eight proposals on the ground. It surprises me that the Progress Party does not see that such a formidable use of oil money, as it really is, can threaten jobs throughout the country. It can contribute to an increase in interest rates, a higher price of crowns and an increase in wage and price pressures, as confirmed by the vast majority of professionals. This government is making good use of oil money, which the representative Ulf Leirstein today calls a ‘one big yeast’. One clings to the oil money industry that was agreed, last autumn, that one should have. One shall look long for a revised budget which is as good as this. And I am pleased that one, without putting monetary policy over control, has had the opportunity to use something extra in addition to the adjustments that we have had to make. The extra pot we have at our disposal, the government uses it well. One shows in this revised budget that one goes for a new course anchored in the Soria Moria Declaration. That the government is increasing the appropriations for kindergartens by almost 700 million. kr, as a result of higher expansion than previously assumed and not least to stimulate continued high expansion rates, shows that the goal of full child care coverage is taken very seriously by the Government. I know this is pleasing to many young children's parents, and Kommune-Norway is looking for the money to come. Extra happy is that you have managed to get to a maximum price of NOK 2 250. There is something that I know has delighted young children's parents, and that has shown well in their wallets. The fact that one has gone back to the Bondevik II government's proposal in terms of abstinence in physiotherapy, and that we couldn't do anything about it in the previous budget, is something we're doing now. It also shows a change in course, a new direction. People who need it the most, get a free quote back. This means that a group of people who are hard hit and completely dependent on treatment to work in everyday life is now releasing an additional burden from 1 July 2006. It is pleasing to a rogaland heart that a person finally gets the opportunity to start work to correct the imbalance in the health region. One has worked for a long and longer time to, among other things. Health West will receive a greater share of the basic appropriations. Now one has started work, and the government will continue that work. Finally, I would like to thank the Government for now correcting the obvious unfair provision contained in the Property Tax Act. This government has not introduced a new tax or cabin tax. This government shall grant the municipalities the freedom of choice to practise the law fairly. Municipalities must decide for themselves whether to print the property tax. Today there is no justice in the fact that small apartments in urban areas or built-in districts will pay taxes, while expensive houses that stand a little outside the cities with an artificial limit will not pay anything. One may be in favour of or against the property tax. I think that's a fair matter, but trying to represent this change as something other than what it really is is not good, nor is it good political craftsmanship. I know that there are local politicians from both the Progress Party and the Right who are opposed to property taxes, and I know that there are several Right-wing politicians who are in favour of property taxes and who welcome this change with joy. They think there's a more fair way to do it. The government may be satisfied that also at this point is the justice that will prevail and eventually win.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2077	As mentioned earlier, the Progress Party has not had a full review of this budget. We have treated this as what it should be: a revised national budget. So we have made minimal changes to an ordinary budgetary procedure. Now I also find that we have been attacked in various ways, including: how we were attacked by the representative Eirin Sund here, because our proposals would create a dramatic press in the Norwegian economy. And then we were attacked by the representative Holmås because we were too pupils, and that there was nothing in this budget at all. It makes me feel sure that the Progress Party has put forward a good proposal for an alternative revised national budget, since it is therefore not a good idea to decide how to attack us. The most important thing, however, is that our alternative revised national budget has a completely different device from that of its government. We have some tax breaks, which will have a completely different impact on the economy than a injector into the public sector. When, for example, reduces the petrol and diesel tax by NOK 1.65 per year. litres, of course, will not lead to an increase in the price of petrol and diesel. No, it'll lead to the opposite. The price of petrol and diesel will fall for consumers and for industry. This of course means that some carriers may not set up prices because they get the price lower, and that they can then manage to operate with an excess without having to roll such additional costs over to their customers. Of course, it is a very good point, which was also the parliamentary leader in, that we have now received a higher price of petrol and diesel to consumers and to industry than we have when we adopted the 2006 state budget. Then it is completely identical – except that it is the reverse situation – to what was the case 20 years ago, in 1986, when Kåre Willoch argued that consumers had had an accidental improvement in purchasing power due to the fall in oil prices. So in the situation we're now, we've got the opposite situation, that consumers and businesses have had an accidental reduction in purchasing power. The party of progress therefore follows Kåre Willoch's argument from 1986, even though we did not at that time. Of course, it's because we're a party that wants to reduce taxes and taxes, not to increase them, but we think that the argument is good to use now. We had hoped that those who supported this argument in 1986 would also have supported us now. When one does not, it must either come about that one thought that the argument was wrong, or it must come from the fact that that argument is only valid in relation to increasing taxes and taxes, not when it comes to reducing taxes and taxes. Otherwise we also have an own Document No. 8 proposals on mobile phone taxes. It is clear that the tax on the mobile phone paid by employers and the Internet is being removed. We have found that this tax has created some difficult issues, including: in the case of emergency workers, where employees no longer wish to be available to employers outside the working hours when they have to pay taxes to the State in order to be available. We have also received specific questions about adding, among other things. in the police will no longer be available, and that therefore this creates a problem for preparedness. We realize that it is difficult to define this, and therefore we suggest that this whole tax liability should be removed. Of course, we will subsidiaryly support the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to evaluate and regulate the legislation. Even if that proposal doesn't get multiple numbers, we still hope that the government will go through this, so that one gets away with the worst urimacies of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2094	Business policy has always been important to the Workers' Party, and now we are delivering, as we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. We are pursuing a policy that ensures industry good and sustainable framework conditions, together with a responsible economic policy. We want to facilitate new jobs, and we want to develop them further. Business in this country is doing well now, and unemployment is falling. Today we could read in newspapers that Norwegian business leaders are among the most optimistic in Europe and that they have added more people. Never have there been more people working here in the country. According to the SSB, there were more than 2.3 million in work in the first quarter. But that does not mean that we should lean back and take a passive stance on industrial policy – on the contrary! The government has laid the foundation for a much more offensive industrial policy than the previous government did. As a key to this, I will briefly mention a business-right design package, an active ownership policy, a new investment in space, a graduated employer's fee and seed fund. We want to focus on the industries where we're good. Maritime industries are among these. We have taken important steps to secure jobs and growth in the maritime industries. One example is that from 1 July, we will expand the net pay system for ships outsourced to competition in the NOR register. MARUT's strength is another example. This will help to make us world leaders in maritime research, competence development and innovation. This is part of keeping up our position as a leading maritime nation. The government is also investing in the marine sector. As a large and important fishing nation, we must be responsible for safe sea food. The revised budget now includes additional appropriations for this work. The government follows up the Soria Moria statement at the point that Norwegian patent policy should be improved. It is important to secure patent rights at the level of what our competitors have. The Government is now seeking Norwegian membership of the European Patent Organisation, EPO. This will make it cheaper and easier for Norwegian companies, precisely to secure their key values, namely the right to their innovations. In the revision, we have also seen 6.6 million. kr for easier reporting. This is an important step in the process of renewing and simplifying the public sector, and it will also benefit the business community. I'm glad we have a government that wants to bet on women in business, and that will stimulate women to start their own businesses. We've seen the 40 pst law. the proportion of women in control. Innovation Norway has received 10 million earmarks. For extra efforts on women entrepreneurs, and women's bets are also central to the district announcement launched today by the municipal minister. This government sees it as both natural and important that women take a greater part in the development of nutrition. Therefore, I must say that I was quite surprised at the opposition, which here in the day proposed to create a new stock law for small businesses and argued, among other things. that it was ‘simplified for women if there was a simpler law’. This seems to me to be a review of women from whom I take a great distance. Travel life has a great potential in our country. We have great goals in the Soria Moria Declaration, and the Government is doing a good job setting out the framework for tomorrow's travel life. There is a new branding strategy for Norway as a tourist destination. These are good guidelines that travel businesses can benefit from. Another good travel hood is a voluntary quality assurance system for companies that will market themselves as part of the Norwegian brand. In fact, industrial policy is one of the most important things for our future, because it is about what we are going to live on in a tough global competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2117	It strikes me that the group that is most hit by the revision this year is probably older – firstly because of the extension of property taxes and, secondly, because of what the government is doing to those who save on pensions. The government eliminates the tax benefits of individual pension agreements, IPA, and annuities. It is disappointing that government parties are in favour of allowing municipalities to extend the possibility of issuing property taxes, including in cabin areas. This is sad not only because the unfair will affect most people, both poor and rich – property taxes on cabins will affect quite ordinary people, the broad group of the population, and only become an additional tax that makes the economy worse for ordinary people. But what is also sad is that it is actually undemocratic, because many tenants then have to pay taxes to municipalities in which they do not have the right to vote. For example, you cannot vote for parties that do not want property taxes in the municipality, such as: The party of progress. Also, owners of recreational dwellings cannot influence the use of tax revenues. The government's proposal also opens up unreasonable differences between municipalities, because municipalities should be able to choose the rate for the property tax of between 2 and 7 per million. The municipalities can therefore choose whether the property tax should be calculated on the basis of the market value of the dwelling or a lower value basis. So then we might experience that the sales tasks of real estate agents to customers in the future include, among other things. an assessment of the political situation of the municipality in which the cottage is sold, since there is no doubt that it will be easier to sell a cabin in municipalities there, for example. The Progress Party has control. But I get the idea. The government parties will take away the kingdoms and think, "Let's take the cottages of the rich." But they're totally bombing by proposing this. No account is taken of the income of the owner or of the liability of the owner on the cabin. A minimum pensioner such as: the whole life has saved for a cabin, must be spent at the same amount as people with incomes in the million class. It's an unsocial legislative change. The principle of property taxes is often discussed here in the Chamber and in other political bodies with the socialist parties, and it has to be said again: the tax is a tripartite tax. It is because property has been purchased with already taxed funds, and the equation value is included in the calculation of property taxes. In addition, the direct costs of municipalities are covered, for example: own-tax sewerage. The second ‘racet’ by the Government is that it eliminates the tax advantages of individual pension agreements and annuities — another punctuation of the elderly who have saved a pension for many years, just as many have saved for a cabin through a long life. And then this happens. Suddenly overnight, without wide consultation, this right of deduction is removed. Firstly, not only rich people benefit mainly from IPA, but ordinary small savers. The best paid in business, as the government believes are the only ones affected, will probably be able to compensate this over the salary budget in another way, which is likely to result in a salary increase for these groups. Nor can I see that this will strengthen people's faith in politicians – in terms of long-term perspective and credibility. If you save your pension, you need long-termity and predictability. The taxation of such a scheme will probably also lead to people choosing to spend money, instead of saving them for retirement. Therefore, those who have used this scheme should at least have the opportunity to find a supplement. If the government parties believe that 2 pst. with OTP to replace IPA, transitional arrangements should have been in place. 50-year-olds with IPA now come in a terrible bout when they switch to OTP on 2 pst. Finally, I would like to pay attention to the Document No. The 8-proposal that I have promoted with my party traps in the Financial Committee on the day of tax exemption. The background has been set out in writing in relation to the work of the Financial Committee. It gives a clue as to how the tax burden is here in the country compared to in competing countries, not least it is good for taxpayers to know when they start making money for themselves and their families. Last year, the Tax payers' Association calculated that Norwegians paid taxes until 22 July, before tax-free months met. The Hill-Marta Solberg of the Labour Party, promised in the VG on the tax-free day of 22 July last year, “that Sanner and others can celebrate the tax-free day of 22 July next year too, because the red-greens will keep the tax-free level unchanged if they win the election”. I can promise the Government that I will follow closely until 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2147	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2150	President! I ask for the floor to take up a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2155	The representative, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, is then given the floor to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2158	On behalf of the Financial Committee, I allow myself to make suggestions for some technical corrections as a result of proceedings in the Storting in the time between the submission and the proceedings today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2164	The vote shall take into account: There are currently 21 three-minute entries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2169	That's what the president said with a sigh about the heart. Some very brief considerations in the context of today's debate. In the debate on the credit notification earlier this week, I touched on the economic policy of our main opponent, the Progress Party, and the expression 'that they are dry' was probably what was left of several speakers. And it really keeps moaning around in my head the more I think about it, when one argues protrudingly against a virtually unified political environment related to the kind of advice to give in economic policy. Today, I believe that this expression is being given renewed weight in budgetary policy as well. From this chair we have heard today the main political spokesman of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, on his own, put his finger on the right button when he mentions the lack of impact on his Document No. Eight proposals, of which there has been a whole rush in Stortinget throughout the winter. He says that he sees no reason to discover the various proposals they have made, because they have not received a majority for them in the Stortinget. Many of us have turned our heads on ourselves to find the FrP code and things like that, but here we might have a golden example of how this actually happens in practice. I don't have any figures on how many debates I've been in the last year and the previous year, with local and central forward-looking party politicians pushing around with proposals they've been promoting in the Great Britain about big and small things. That is what we have been talking about: look here, we have proposed what we have proposed. And then we see the realities of things when we get to the annual budgetary rounds, whether it's alternative budgets or revised national budgets. Because in the world of the Progress Party, there is obviously no reason to bring forward the proposals on those points where no majority voting has been given – no, then the money is reused to promote other proposals. I've brought with me a few examples. The proposal to cancel the debt for toll-funded transport projects, estimated at between DKK 10 and 13 billion, has not been proposed for either the revised national budget or the alternative budget. A follow-up package for maintenance of county roads in the order of NOK 10 billion, perhaps – yes, something is inside, it is also from the government parties, but it is not close to being the estimated amounts. Another proposal: Action plan for the construction of gas power plants in Norway and State responsibility for the CO2 value chain – yes, 3–4 billion, at least, will estimate that it costs – not with coverage. We can't do it this way. What are people going to believe about this? What proposals can the Progress Party confirm later in the debate if they come into government and can the Progress Party guarantee that all the proposals promoted in this Chamber will be implemented if they are given the hand on the rudder and not put to the vote in the Chamber? I fully agree with the representative Holmås, who said earlier in the debate that this simply does not keep the goal. I could give a long talk about all the system errors and about everything I want to do over this big period to change Norway, but I would never think about flying around and throwing blues in the eyes of people with things I don't know get majority, and then spending the money again. That's what I mean -- yeah, I'm not going to say the word I was going to say...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2193	When the revised budget was presented, I was very pleased with what came. Many important issues from the 2006 budget were followed up. When the opposition says that this is a small revision without any political signals, it is wrong. Many things show something else, and I'll mention some examples. On 7 March this year, we had an inter-pelling debate in this room on the nursing training courses that had not been approved by the National Quality Education Body (NOCUT), due to a lack of initial competence at the teaching sites. In that debate, the representative Højbräten, who is former Minister of Health and Care, called for these courses not to require a higher academic level, more academic degrees, more doctoral thesis, etc. Nor did he hesitate to claim that the professional struggle in the hospitals was the cause of the academicization of nursing training. I want to claim that is a wrong claim. On the contrary, there is a great need for theoretical understanding and research in this field, which has so great challenges in the future. So our government is strengthening education by 11.9 million. kr i revised, so that work can be speeded up to meet the requirements of NOCUT on the competence of these training courses. The government also strengthens the basic funding for nursing training at private colleges, among others. by Lovisenberg. This happens in recognition of the importance of these training courses, if we are to achieve the target of 10,000 new annual jobs in the care and care sector during this ageing period. Furthermore, the North-Trunde Team Health Survey is strengthened so that NTNU can launch one of the largest public health surveys conducted in any country. The previous government had not provided sufficient funds to enable those responsible for this investigation to initiate this important project. The study federations have also received 27 million. kr through the revised budget. This was absolutely necessary to enable the study associations to survive and continue to offer important courses with specialities that do not exclude participation from anyone. All of this is an example of a direction and a different way of thinking than what the previous government stood for. I could have mentioned more, such as 50 million. spending on digital learning material in higher education and increased support for training in the field of criminal justice. Targeted commitment to well-being, community, quality and development characterises the revised budget, as it embodies all documents presented by the Government this spring. That is good, and it promises well for further government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2212	For quite a long time, we have been shown that the so-called single school in Norway reproduces social differences — not only are the differences reproduced, but they are reinforced and deepened during schooling. For this reason, the Right in its large school package and the commitment to research and education in its alternative approach to the revised budget have put in a large pot of 50 million. extra NOK to teaching aid in schools. It is simply to ensure equal opportunities for all children, and to ensure that no one becomes so dependent on their home background that they have less opportunities to complete and complete schooling in Norway. Of course, I urge the government parties to join that initiative and to vote in favour of that proposal. But more serious than the fact that there is probably no majority in favour of that proposal is that over the last seven to eight months, we have seen a formidable cut in research efforts by the red-green government. It's not just me that's reacted to it. The University and Higher Education Council recently stated that the reduction in the Research Fund is a clear weakening of the research ambitions contained in proposals for the State budget for 2006. In a few months, the Council of State Øystein Djupedal and the rest of his government colleagues have committed themselves to the research with nearly $1 billion. On the one hand, the increase in fund capital was cut by DKK 25 billion in the ordinary budget. That alone means approx. 900 million. a reduction in the amount of research to be carried out in 2007. In addition, the revised national budget came on 12 May this year. Nor was the research saved there. There was 100 million. kr redisposed from long-term basic research in the Research Council to the gift-enhancing scheme. It's one important thing to say about gift enhancement: it's good that money is channelled there. That's the whole point of the arrangement. But the assumption has always been that there would be new money coming in to fund a raise on the gift board. Norway is dependent on research and development, both to ensure our well-being in the future and to cure diseases. This means that, like the private sector, public research needs to be increased, not reduced. What we have seen now, however, is that SV runs from its promises in the election campaign that more money should be spent at a faster pace in the Research Fund, and not least harmonizes the cuts that have now been seen, very badly with the then opposition politician Øystein Djupedal said to the evening post on 26 September last year: "What we will get, we get." It is tempting to ask if it is the will it stands on, or what it is that makes the research still subject to cutbacks. Of course, I encourage the Government to reverse the cut policy it has pursued in terms of research and education. I hope we see a more offensive budget next year. It's not because I, as an opposition politician, will always be in opposition, but it's because we're dependent on money for research and education for Norway to have a way of life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2229	Also in the revised national budget, the Government shows that it has ambitions to be a leading country in environmental policy. From the revised budget of the year, we see that, among other things: shall receive a tax exemption for hydrogen cars, we shall not be charged on fuel where bioethanol is a major component, we intend to impose a charge on NOx emissions, large amounts – 60 million. kr – for CO2 cleaning, and we want to increase the allocation for the planning of new railway projects. And then we're going to spend $8 million. kr to maintain progress in the control of the Salmon Parasitic Gyrodactylus salaris. There will be increased appropriations for the robbers, increased appropriations for the purchase of defence property for public purposes and increased appropriations for the repair of storm damaged salmon traps and gyro barriers. But for one who spends much of the time between the accumulation sessions on the wide, with a pole on the shoulder, there are two things that especially delight. One is that Norway, as the only country in Europe, has adopted high mountain ecosystems with populations of wild rain. Of course, it means a separate Norwegian responsibility for wild rain that two centres for wild rain are now being set up. As an avid sports fisherman, it is extra good that we have been able to fix the cut that the previous government had introduced in connection with the granting of alimony. We know that if such liming stops and is not done continuously, a lot of the investments made over many years are wasted. Such a cut would have had a dramatic negative impact on the liming establishment, and in reality it would have resulted in fish deaths in the form of the closure of existing projects. The cut would be the hardest thing to do with the smaller local projects in the inland waters. In addition, the scope of the cut-off proposal was such that some of the major national salmon rivers were actually at risk. For example, the salmon population in the Kvina would have gone doll, as described by the County of West Agder: however, stopping in the liming would be very unfortunate for the salmon and the other biological diversity that is now established. We expect the salmon strain to die out. Today’s liming activities are based on a solid action plan developed by the Directorate for Nature Management. There is little other activity in Norwegian nature that is better documented than the liming activity, and the positive effects are indisputable — an action that is also evidenced by socio-economic profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2251	Norway is a country with great opportunities. Last year's election campaign was about how to make use of the opportunities. I heard that the opposition criticized the revised national budget because it was boring. I don't know what they expected – if they hoped we would send up fireworks – but as far as I can see, the only boring thing is revised that it is so solid that it must be difficult even for the opposition to criticise it. Increased frameworks for health, increased frameworks for transport, increased frameworks for kindergartens, increased frameworks for welfare. It is possible to make use of these opportunities in Norway. Economic policy ensures a low priced and low interest rate, which in turn ensures competitive industry. Since the turn of the year, there have been 10,000 fewer unemployed in Norway, and in the last four years unemployment has never been as low as it is now. The level of interest will not increase because of our policies, for the benefit of all people with mortgages. At the same time as the revised national budget, we are today debating a private proposal for additional appropriations for the underfunded regional health enterprises. The size has recognised that there is a division between the five health regions. Such bias is unacceptable and must be corrected. Government parties have said that the division should be corrected more quickly than was the case in St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004. The government is starting this work to find room for an additional 100 million. kr in the revised budget, which is distributed between Health West and Health Mid-Norway. At the same time, the bulk of population has given a clear signal that we are not just aiming to correct the distribution between health regions – we also need to raise the overall level. Already this year 20 000 more patients can be treated in Norway than the previous government provided. There is something called the reverse care law: social health inequalities mean that the low pay is the most often ill and most in need of health care. At the same time, excesses hit the poorest hardest. Keeping the proportions low is therefore an important policy objective for a social health policy. Since we got a new majority, self-employment 2 has fallen from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500, and the proportion of physical services has been removed. The new majority makes a difference. But even though we are already making a difference, the work has just begun. Many have not yet felt the effect of the changes that have been made. We still have major challenges ahead of us. The revised national budget is a continuation of the road to renewal, a path we need to continue by creating more and better jobs, strengthening the hospital economy and creating more well-being in the form of safer ageing and a fairer education system. It is to make use of the opportunities of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2277	As the Prime Minister said in his speech, the government has now ruled for eight months, and the Norwegian economy is going well. But there have also been eight months of unrest within the government and in the government's relationship with the Storting. I'm going to admit one thing, and that's that one of the councillors I had the most faith in was the Minister of Justice. He promised a lot both in the opposition and in the election campaign, and is probably the state council that has been the highest in the field this year with solutions in the justice sector. It was therefore with great optimism the Progress Party looked forward to revised, to see if the Minister of Justice had really managed to shake a few extra dollars out of the Minister of Finance. And – truly – he had done that! But it's close enough. The Prime Minister said in his speech that the government was paying in prison places. But with the challenges we are now facing in terms of criminal care and settlements, there is not enough investment in 100 new open spaces. We need closed spaces, and we need it fast. Like the Council of State, the Progress Party is also concerned about the settlement queues, but forward parole and increased use of community punishment is not the solution. Today, more than 250 people are in line for social punishment. It's serious. Nice words and plans are not the solution. If the Halden prison – at NOK 1 billion – is to be completed in 2009, as the Prime Minister said today, we look forward to the budget for the autumn, because there has to be a lot of money if this is to become a reality. Today, the police have 220 job vacancies on a national basis. This is alarming when we know that the Norwegian police are very low-staffed in relation to the police in our neighbouring country. In addition, the country’s police need to modernise protective equipment and weapons. The Progress Party has registered that the Minister of Justice has stated that one must go to the purchase of new weapons. But where's the money? The economy of the individual police districts must not be given priority, and when. Finally, today, the Stortinget makes a unanimous decision to authorise Haugaland and Gjøvik property rights to conclude leases. The State will incur liabilities here in future financial years. Nevertheless, the Court of Justice now refuses to sign such agreements because they do not receive direct promises of money. I would ask the Government to follow up this case, so that the Grand Duchy's decision on progress in the court structure is followed up, so that we do not get the delays that the court administration is now giving notice of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2290	Over the almost nine years I've been on the Storting, this must be the debate on the revised budget where one has devoted least time to health. I see why. It is because the Government, through its proposal to the revised budget, must clearly have a very bad conscience. So nothing is done in the health sector, except for the 100 million. kr that you – I kept saying – ‘wash your hands with’ to pretend to do something to create some of the biases that Health West and Health Mid Norway have been exposed to in recent years. Almost every day we get feedback about departments that need to be closed down, hospitals that need to provide the most reasonable – not necessarily the most effective – drugs, among others. as a result of the full responsibility of hospitals for funding, including the TNF-inhibitors for rheumatic patients, without sufficient funding being transferred. In addition, we know that last year's hospitals suffered billions of losses, which are now to be balanced for the current year. We also have a paycheck behind us. Yesterday we received a letter from a number of employees at St. Olav's Hospital, who writes about the closure of rehabilitation sites for younger patients with brain damage. Six beds have already been removed at this department, and other beds are on their way. We see that other places should operate with summer-closed departments to save money – and the government does nothing! The government does nothing, despite all the alarming signals we've received from the health care community. The representative from the Workers' Party who was just up here, Dag Ole Tegen, indicated that the budget was so good that the opposition had trouble attacking it. No, I just have to say the following: the opposition is more desperate than upset. Here you push the patients in front of you. There's a lot of people here who don't get help, and the queues are going to increase. It shows that the Soria Moria statement is nothing but a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2301	The representative Nesvik called for more involvement in the health debate. There is a lot that could be said, not least about getting political control over health businesses. There is no reason, in my view, for the government parties to be ashamed of this budget. But I'm going to focus on just one thing. SV wants a more equitable health care system – a health care system that does not contribute to the vicious circle of social inequality, where you are ill if you are poor, and you become poor if you are ill. One of the elements to smooth out social inequality is, of course, peculiarities. The percentage of physiotherapy was a proportion that was almost earmarked for social injustice, which hit chroniclers and those with the lowest income. There was an excess that neither the Government nor the government parties could be aware of. That the proportion was proposed by the Bondevik government, and that the Stoltenberg government limited the worst rashes by introducing a roof, the matter did something better, but not good enough. A government with ambition for social justice and equalisation cannot be measured against a right government that wanted greater inequalities. The government must be measured against its own ambitions. That's why many people were disappointed and today have reason to rejoice that the proportion of physiotherapy is withdrawn from 1 July. The pressure to get rid of this excess was great from user organisations, from individuals, from active politicians in the majority parties, who could not accept this tax on disease. It hit 250,000 Nordics – people with multiple sclerosis, cerebral paresis, rheumatic disorders, stroke patients, lymphoedema and women with pelvic solution. The Bondevik government argued that government expenditure in this field — treating the chroniclers — had increased too much. I'll almost say the opposite. Physiotherapy for these groups is useful and good treatment, and probably we're dealing with a continued under-use because there's a shortage of physiotherapists in many places who have capacity, competence, and agreement. Of course, there are many who can afford to pay $50 for a physiotherapy session, but this fact largely hit people with disability who went and got treatment maybe several times a week. It's liberating that this excess is now being cut. We can congratulate each other, not least all the non-parliamentary activists who have worked for this. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the proportion of healthcare should be reduced. We know that the Ministry of Health and Health is working on a big message about social inequality in healthcare. The removal of this excess has brought us into the attack position, where the goal now has to be to eliminate multiple excesses and reduce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2316	Document No The 8-proposal of the Progress Party to remove excise duties on chocolate and sugar products is the recipe for how the Stortinget can pursue an active industrial policy through the use of tax legislation. Not only is the charge distorting competition, but it is also totally incomprehensible when you look at the border crossings caused by the legislation. Let me do some examples, so maybe we'll get the pleasure of hearing the Council explain this to us in more detail. Why is it that half a kilo of marzipan on the tube is not subject to charge, while a finished marzipan lid for cake – the same marzipan in chain version – is subject to charge? Or why is it that biscuits with the same sugar and chocolate content as chocolate biscuits are treated differently? Why is it important whether the chocolate is on the outside, inside or covering 50 pst.? It may be useful to consult the Council of State to answer some of these questions. At the same time, we should remember that this is bloody serious for the chocolate factories. This charge represents an additional cost per person. work of NOK 400000. It is a major challenge for the industry, and I react a little when I read the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee, which says that the fee is applied to the product and is therefore not distorting competition. With all due respect, it's time to get out of the government quarter and take a look around the world. If there is something good for business, it is to adapt their products in such a way that you do not pay Norwegian excise duties. When the chocolate factories are concerned, it is because the competitors produce products that are largely identical to the Norwegian ones, but because of their appearance or packaging they do not pay a fee. At the same time, it seems that the Council of State forgets the extensive border trade. Nutritionally, this charge has nothing to do with products with equal health or unhealthy content being charged equally. It is a fact that products that are sugar-free do not drop the fee either. It is unnecessary to point out several points, but only on the basis of proposals for decisions by the socialists must we draw the conclusion that we are continuing to pursue a planless industrial policy. I just have to point out that after a long campaign, where the socialists announced a new course in business policy, it is now, after almost a year, clear that they did not know what they were talking about, and that they had no idea what they were going to do if they came to power. The only new feature of industrial policy is the practice of setting up funds and laying down jobs. Providing framework conditions that prevent closure, the socialists have no plans or visions about it. There is no active industrial policy. It's a destructive business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2336	I am pleased that the labour market measures have received so much attention in this debate. I interpret it as a broad support to the Government when, in the big news again, it determines that an active labour market policy is to be pursued here in the country. In the new NAV offices, state and local authorities must work intensively, targeted, hand in hand to break prejudices, qualify, motivate and assist both jobseekers and employers. In order to achieve this, as much money as possible needs to be spent on active measures, as much as possible to the administration. Where we previously gave passive benefits, we now have to give active qualification, and that's a right choice. It is therefore also a right choice to increase the number of places for people with disabilities, and when more people come to work, it is precisely those who need an extra effort that we need to focus more on. And an important change to: It's no longer allowed to bring money from the disabled to other groups. Much argues that it makes sense to shift resource use for people with disabilities more towards dissemination measures, as proposed by the Government, if it causes more people to get a job. But we have to be careful to steer so unilaterally toward the goal that we forget that many disabled people still have a high level of assistance needs. Therefore, it is important and appropriate to clarify when the Committee allows for flexibility in relation to the organisers of the action rather than to guide monomant towards a given target, although it may mean that the number of places may decrease. The most important thing is that there will be quality in the actions we actually offer, and then in the NAV reform we need to develop good performance targets that, in addition to the number of places at the aggregate level, also reflect quality and performance at the individual level. Today's debate has shown that this is necessary, because it's only about the number and the crowns, and the majority have got peppers to cut in dollars and little honey to increase in numbers. But after the election, there has been a race in the opposition to overwhelm the Government. Just listen to me. General seats: Bondevik II Government, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, 10,400 seats. When the supplementary proposition said plus 2,500, they also said that, while the Progress Party said minus 4,600. When the revised budget continues to say 12,500, the Christian People's Party says plus 90, right minus 1,400, left minus 2,000, while the Advance Party now agrees with the Government. For disabled people before the elections said Right, Left, Christian People's Party 26 300. When the supplementary proposition said OK, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party plus 400, the Progress Party said 500. And when the revised then says plus 1,000, right is 2,000, Christian People's Party 3,000 plus, while the left has fallen down to 400. But don't worry, because the Progress Party is now in favour - not plus 500 as in the budget, but tops the statistics by 3 100. This is a little serious. Here, all constellations have to take a round with themselves, and by the 2007 budget comes, we have got the big message about work, well-being and inclusion, and then we get a new chance to do a good job all together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2351	The Christian People's Party will preserve the children's homes after the breakup of life. Therefore, we will remove the document fee for co-operative parents with common children. Many parents get poor finances after a break in their lives, and the Christian People's Party wants to help parents keep the house the children have grown up in. They have and shall have the freedom to choose the form of life. This freedom does not have children. The Christian People's Party will therefore remove the document fee also for co-operative parents, so that children of co-workers will not come out worse than children of married people when parents leave each other. We are pleased that the government party has come to meet us on this matter and would like to clarify the issue further with a view to correcting this difference. Parents have the primary responsibility for raising children, and then it is important for society to make it possible for them to fulfil their own responsibilities. We are therefore correcting again the cut that the government party made in cash, both in terms of money and in terms of length, and have raised 163.5 million. kr more for cash support. The government's policy creates uncertainty for young children's parents and will probably lead to the kindergarten queue being supplemented with children of parents who primarily want to be home or have other supervisory arrangements. It is sad that the Central Party has still not got the rest of the Government to keep the promise from the Soria Moria statement that the cash support should be kept at least until 2008. The family is the beginning of a child's life-walk. It frames the growth in the same way the family is composed. That's why the Christian People's Party is busy giving the family better odds for happiness in its task. We have therefore invested funds to make the Good Start project available throughout the country – a life course that provides newly-baked parents across the country with tools to deal with everyday life. This is particularly important at a time when very many marriages are dissolved and very many children experience a changed everyday life and life situation. If this trend can be reversed by preventive work that will enable the family to live better together, this could have positive consequences both in terms of human and socio-economic. In a reply from the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, she said that we should not determine how the adults decorate their lives. I agree, but it can't defend the fact that one doesn't agree to give money to a life course, which many parents themselves want and ask for. It's become very popular. The government suggests an increase of 694 million. to the nursery sector in its proposal for a revised national budget. We haven't been able to figure out 10 million. kr to the student children's houses, which were cut into the state budget. The student children's households are particularly suited to the needs of the students and have, among other things, the needs of the students. extended opening time during examination periods. For students with young children, the student children’s groups are crucial for them to study. So I had hoped that the government party had the ability and the will to find money for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2370	As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to say a few words about the defence. The defence must adapt to a modern threat picture. New and more complex threats increase the need for flexible defence, a defence that can handle a wide range of different tasks. We must have operational personnel at our disposal to respond to crises, conflict and war – both out and at home. The defence must safeguard our national security and safeguard our territorial sovereignty. At the same time, Norway, as a rich country, must contribute to peace and security internationally. As far as the adopted long-term plan is concerned, as we know, there is an imbalance between the structure, tasks and the economic framework. It's a challenge for us. That there is an imbalance between the level of ambition and resources is a situation we cannot live with in the long term. That is why the Workers' Party has programmed that we should be a driver in order to achieve a balance between structure, tasks and resources. In revision, some reasonable re-priorities take place, from material investment to the necessary EBA investments and maintenance of fastening plants. In addition, it is gratifying that municipalities have been extended pre-emption rights in the event of the disposal of military properties. The government believes that the attack on the Meymaneh stabilisation team in northern Afghanistan requires action to strengthen security there. The Workers' Party is committed to strengthening the security of our soldiers to the maximum. That is why we are setting up a new camp, our own security and security force, and we are facilitating the stationing of a company from the Afghan army in Meymaneh. These necessary measures cost 150 million. kr. I am pleased that this year we have managed to finance this by re-priorities within the Ministry of Defence's budget. As a rich country, Norway should contribute to peace and security internationally. Participation in international operations involves significant expenditure. We live in an uncertain world, where there will always be a risk that Norway will have to participate internationally at short notice, without this being planned. In such contexts, it is often essential to act quickly. It is not possible to budget for unexpected crises and new operations. In order to have the necessary freedom of action to participate in such operations in the future, I would like to stress the need for additional expenditure on unplanned operations to be based on supplementary funding. It has been the usual practice in the Grand Duchy, and so it must be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2385	In the debate today, several representatives have expressed concerns about how SV is doing in the government. Not least, the parliamentary leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, has expressed great concern about the situation of SV after we came into government. Therefore, I think it is natural to report back to Stortinget about how SV is doing in government. SV has a very good government. We have the great privilege that every day we can put the SV stamp on the government's policy. We are fully aware that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are also putting their stamp on politics, but the SV's stamp is also on Regeringa's policy. After a little over six months in government, we see that we have shifted policy significantly towards what SV wants. So here we are. Let me do two-three-four examples. We were able to stop the privatisation of the Norwegian school. The single school, which was laboriously built up over many years, was at full speed to be destroyed. We've actually gotten the government to put the foot down in relation to the fall-back. The decision to revert is one of the most important decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. Here you've put your foot down and run a tough race in relation to ESA. We have been given a management plan for the Barents Sea on which no other government could have got such a good environmental profile. It's just because SV is in government. And to take this budget, we've done something in relation to probabilities. In fact, we've had a strong commitment to broadband, especially to the districts. That SV is in government, we think we are very positive for development, and we like it well. So I have to say it's a little surprising to listen to those who put in government together a little over six months ago. They promote a number of proposals here in the hall, which crack in every direction. Since the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right were in government together for some time, I expected that when they came into opposition, there was still a lack of cooperation. But a lot of that cooperation has obviously disappeared, and we are today facing an opposition that is completely divided in relation to the Storting and in the treatment that has been done in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2400	Unlike the representative Nesvik, we see in the Health Group of the Workers' Party that in the revised budget there are some good health issues. One of them, who has been mentioned several times, concerns the inheritance of Bondevik. We've paid it, we've signed it out, the fraction of 50 dollars in physiotherapy. All those who engaged and experienced it as being unfair can now get a better everyday life. We are constantly talking from this pulpit about the large amounts, but I want to mention the strengthening of the local public health work, that is. partnership for local public health work, which was reinforced by 5 million. kr. Better people's health is prevention. That's good policy. There are measures where people live, which are aimed specifically at health. Countries such as Hedmark, Telemark and Vestfold are now being strengthened by the allocation they received for 2006. Now they can get several municipalities into the scheme. Our goal is for all states and municipalities to be involved. As an example from Vestfold and my own town, Larvik, I can mention that water vending machines with cold water have been installed in the schools. It makes young people drink more water and less noise. The provision of smoking stops with different ways to stop smoking is also good public health measures. A small sum – but it has good effect. When it comes to prevention, you can do a lot with little money. Another good thing in the revision is the follow-up to what we red-green have said about women's health. By granting 10 million. SEK to a centre of expertise at the Women's Hospital at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, we can ensure that we get more knowledge and competence about what sex and gender differences do for the health and development of disease. It's an important field, and where we need more research and more competence. The three issues mentioned are all important health issues that can contribute to fewer interventions — which, after all, cost much more — and thus lower hospital expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2415	I have noticed with interest the intervention of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen who started the debate today, stressing that the Government is putting great emphasis on good Community solutions rather than privatisation and tax relief to the rich. The same thing has been repeated by then all those who have spoken from the government parties. Let me go into two things. I think it's a shame that the government is now giving priority to the weakest of the weakest. For labour market measures for disabled persons. Here the government cuts with 172 million. kr. And who's being hit? Yes, it is, among other things. drug users who have been treated and who want to return to society, who need stability, predictability and long-term sustainability. VTA companies are an important prerequisite and a means of bringing them back to society. Here comes the government. It will also affect people with severe mental disorders, and not least the heaviest users of the mentally retarded will be affected. If the Government — although the price of services has fallen — had sought to maintain the allocation, more than 3,000 more could have been helped by these measures. 3,000 more people could from summer to Christmas have received help and seen a better and brighter everyday meeting. That's why I think it's a shame what the government has done in this area. Another example is IPA and annuity. Here the Government proposes to convert the scheme into the middle of the year. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance cannot today give clear answers as to whether it will be possible to get out of the IPA regime or the annuity agreements for those who have recently concluded such agreements. The representative Sanner referred to the TV 2 news yesterday, once again showing the government's heartache by reducing the income of a young person who has ruined his life in a traffic accident. She is hit by the fact that she gets 90 000 kroner less in income. This is another example of those that the red-greens do not provide with their Community solutions. The Minister of Finance also pointed out that it was an intentional policy, and that policy must be taken in view of the fact that OTP has been granted. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: what about the almost 40,000 people who work involuntary part-time, under 40 pst. position in the public sector, which receives neither a CLP pension nor an OTP? The only way they could have had a decent pension was through the IPA scheme, by saving themselves. But also in this area, the Government takes from them the possibility of a pension. In conclusion, the government's policy is not a punishment for the rich, but a punishment for the ordinary people who are at the very end of the scale other than those to whom the Government's arguments aim.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2432	Parliamentary leader Inge Ryan mentioned broadband in his post, and I will make some comments on it. Today I received a booklet. It is called ‘Broadbands create proximity’ and shows some practical examples from Telemark on how to sit at home on your own PC and solve many tasks that you could not have done before. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the government will work towards an offer for the whole country to be connected to a good broadband network by the end of 2007. We have a goal of digital universal rights. The government is on its way – on a broadband road. In the middle of a budget year, broadband deployment is speeding up through increased allocation to the HØYKOM district in the revised budget, 50 million. kr for the construction of broadband in the district policy area. It is an increase for the HØYKOM programme from 70 million to 120 million. kr – an increase of 60 pst. It's not small things in the middle of a fiscal year. So here a critical voice from the north will boast of its own government. This is valuable construction of the whole country. We know that, among other things: In Troms and Finnmark, broadband is now directed by municipalities, county municipalities and energy companies. This is money that will contribute, among other things, to: a small district municipality in the municipality of Nord-Troms, Kåfjord, can complete the extension that has been launched by the municipality of Nord Troms Kraftlag and Kåfjord. Troms County Municipality, in cooperation with the municipalities of Troms, has spent 250 million dollars under the control of the broadband community of Troms. kr, and in a reasonably short time, everyone in the municipality of Trom has broadband, with all the positive effects it has on the population and the business world around it. What should be a social responsibility and financed by the state budget has been taken up by power companies, municipalities and county municipalities. But the new red-green government takes a clear responsibility here, and I am very pleased about that. This is $50 million for Troms and Finnmark – and other parts of the country that need development. The 50 million. kr is digital seed for the districts. The initiative on broadband is also taking place within the framework of an offensive IT policy, under the direction of Minister of Renewal and Administration Heidi Grande Røys. There is now a grip on the high-tech construction of the country that the previous government was not in the vicinity of. This is going through in the Stortinget on the same day as the Government presents a new growth report on district and regional policy, and the same week as Kristin Halvorsen, Åslaug Haga and the Government were reinstated as of 1 January 2007. They fought closely with ESA in Brussels, and they won the game. Now the government is also setting up the pace of IT development in the districts. Norway has a very good starting point for achieving the goal of a digital all-man’s right. It's far from Lyngen to Oslo. With broadband, we're just a keystroke away. Digital universal rights eliminate distances and create opportunities for many new jobs in the districts. It's just to say that in this area, the government delivers the goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2447	The Christian People's Party notes that there is no great environmental effort in the government's proposal, nor in today's vote by the majority. I'm putting on the glasses of those who come after us, it's with sadness that I'm recording this. Why? Well, because the environment needs to be constantly high on the political map if we are to meet the challenges and be able to make the changes that need to be made. It's probably what 20-year-old Bellona said at today's reception: it started digging up poison barrels, now we're going to dig down CO2. Bellona has made this development clear through professionalism and a great commitment. Today's Christian People's Party has put forward proposals for, among other things, a refurbishment of the heating of houses from the firing season 2006 to 2007. The Christian People's Party challenged the early Government to bring about a transformation of this very thing in the RNB, so that the positive environmental consequences of this could benefit the environment, and that this could be a positive measure in relation to the challenge we face in Middle Norway. But unfortunately – The government has not taken this call seriously so that this conversion could start already this summer and have consequences for the firing season we are going into. On Sunday, the government came with three budget leaks regarding its commitment to alternative energy. The government's directed headline leak will use the Christian People's Party to fill the major shortages of subsidies and systems that are below the headlines that became available to us on Sunday. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the new input system now being introduced by the Government is predictable and that it provides as much new renewable energy as possible. I am happy to read in the Agderpost today that the State has agreed to pay 21 million kroner to the beach pearl Kibbevika. It's nice that the government spends some money buying beach area in the press areas of the districts. I then expect that the Government will also be pleased with this paid bill and for this bet in Kommune-Norway, and that they will also vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party that is going on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2461	The representative, Ms. Mikalsen, attacked the Progress Party too much – he did use his whole contribution to talk about the Advance Party. One of the things he accused us of was that we had not given funds to the CO2 management project in the revised budget of the year. It's kind of interesting to hear, because he said that the cost is 4-5 billion kroner. When we promoted the proposal in Stortinget, comments included: Prime Minister Stoltenberg’s proposal in such a way that this was not necessary at all, for the CO2 management project was profitable. So today, Torgeir Mikalsen says it costs at least $5 billion. I have noted that. And I think I agree more with the reality description of Micasen than with the reality description of the government in that case. Then I would like to remind you a little bit about the treatment of the budget before Christmas, where the Progress Party said that cutting the appropriations for liming acidified watercourses from 100 million. NOK 70 million. was not a good and sound environmental policy. In the hope of getting a majority, we pointed out at the time that 88 million. kr was a minimum to achieve a manageable tapering of the liming in Norway. This number-- $88 million. – I now recognise in the revised budget. It is good to see that the Ministry of the Environment is following our advice on both liming and gyro control, and we are also very pleased with the wild reindeer centres. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Finance and the Government to note the comments of the Progress Party on the Trillemarka and the Rollag mass and the protection that will be carried out there during the fall. Local forces, landowners and local politicians were at first protected, but have now turned around and accepted a protection and put forward a proposal on what the new protection area should look like. Then it is my and the Progress Party's recommendation that the Government follow the advice of local politicians and landowners. If not, I will go so far as to claim that all the talk to the Government about the great importance of local democracy becomes empty talk. Whether the scheme to strengthen new renewable electricity in Norway, which should be so much better than green certificates, is to say that it will not lead to any new generation of electricity until the Government gives a clearer signal about where they want to go in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2478	Better health care is a main priority in the Right’s proposal for a revised budget. I am pleased that we have found room to increase the appropriations for health and care services by as much as 220 million. kr in relation to the Government's draft budget. The co-operation administration started work to correct the under-financing of Health West and Health Mid-Norway through proposals in St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004, Income system for specialist health services. The current economic situation of these health regions suggests a faster acceleration of appropriations than previously foreseen. So the right-hand side is proposing to allocate $49 million. In addition to the Government's proposal to correct the underfinancing in Health West and Health Mid-Norway. This will ensure that health regions have a better and more equivalent resource base for specialist health services. In addition, we ask the Council of State to assess the need for a further escalation of the allocations to these regions beyond what the Stortinget was in favour of during the treatment of St.meld. No 5th@item: Drug users have long been treated as the last unworthy need. A step in the right direction was taken by granting drug-dependent patients equal rights to other patients. However, it is now necessary to provide substantial resources to provide the patient rights with real content. The right has set at 55 million. kr to the first step in an escalating plan in the drug field, and this effort will give many addicts a new chance to create a better life for themselves and their families. It is disappointing that the government has found no room for prioritising addicts in the revised budget, despite beautiful promises in the election campaign. There has been a lot of focus on the need for more hands in the care of the elderly, but the Right believes that this is not enough. It is at least equally important to provide better quality healthcare so that older people with complex disease conditions receive qualified health care. We have therefore proposed increased appropriations to recruit more skilled staff and to strengthen the geriatric competence of the care of the elderly. In addition, the Right is in favour of increasing the grant of relief treatment at the end of life, so that patients receive an offer that will provide them with better care in the final phase of life. I will end by saying that the government's rhetoric about a warm community from the election campaign has in reality become a cold shoulder to many of the worst in society. The Rusfeld Council has pointed out that it is necessary to return to the previous Stoltenberg government in order to find a revised budget that does not contain any investment in the area of waste. Another example is that sick elderly people get a longer route to hospitals as a result of the government entering into agreements with private actors. However, it is the Minister of Renewal that tops the list of petty in the Government. She has made an information offer, the speech portal, for the blind, disabled and elderly who cannot use the Internet, because she estimated a cost of NOK 300 000 per person. years too much. This happens at the same time that SVs Karin Andersen talks about discrimination against people with disabilities being a serious social problem. It was a matter of course for the Right to grant the 300,000 kroner needed to continue the so-called Disability Speech Portal, which was created by the Council of State Meyer from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2493	This debate never subsided. The most perceptive, however, was a Prime Minister who did not want to use his own speaking time, who actually stood on the pulpit for about a year. 3 minutes of a speech time of 5. I find that alarming. It says you have a prime minister and a government that is exposed to political visions, and that has done little, at least that you want to talk about, and not least in this case. After all, you want to talk about the positive things, and then you have minimal access to them. I get to say as the fatherland friend's leader a few days ago, that Stoltenberg II now reminds me more and more of Stoltenberg I. It was from the Fan’s side, or from mine, not meant positive. There is little going on in this revised budget. These are negative changes for IPA. You want a cabin tax that's negative, and there's a couple of other things. I want to spend some time on the so-called fee on chocolate and sugar confectionery. This is a fee that the Bondevik II Government, or the Centre-Right Government, wanted to remove, which was included in the 2006 budget. Nevertheless, the Stoltenberg II government did not find room to remove it. It affects approx. 3 000 people currently working in the chocolate and sugar industry. Nidar, Freia or ice cream manufacturers such as Hennig-Olsen and Diploma-Is are affected by this. What's funny is that you have a LO and an employer's page that agree on a strong demand to remove it, precisely because the fee is so hard on them. There are few charges in Norway that actually entail costs of DKK 400000 per person. the average number of jobs. It's significant. And as you said at Nidar, it's limited how long you can live under such a tax regime. I find it necessary to quote Lundtegen when he said in his post earlier today, that ‘what do we want with the food industry?’ His answer was import protection on raw materials. Yes, if you look at Nidar alone, they represent the milk consumption of over 600 dairy cows. So the importance of agriculture for maintaining Nidar and similar industries in Norway is also significant. But the Right does not want import protection. Right wants to remove this fee, which is so hard on them. It is strange when the LO has such a damp hand around the Government, that you do not want to remove this fee at the one point where the actual employer and employee stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2509	I would like to add some comments to proposal No. 89, which I have promoted on behalf of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Progress Party, where we are ‘beginning the Government to review, including a public consultation, the proposal to wind up the tax advance on individual pension agreements and annuities’, and want to re-evaluate the state budget for 2007. [[IPA]] When we deal with this proposal, there are two main reasons for it. Firstly, our pension scheme rests on three pillars. It's the social security, it's the collective arrangements or compulsory occupational pension, and it's private or individual pension insurance. The right has been very concerned that these three pillars are also to be taken into account in the new pension scheme. We see that the pension agreement rests on these three pillars, and we are greatly provoked by the fact that the government with a pen stroke removes one of the legs of the pension scheme. The second is that the Government, without investigating, without a public hearing, has presented a proposal that has dramatic consequences for individuals. There is evidence that it was wrong when the Minister of Finance claimed that these were schemes primarily for the rich, because in fact more than half of those who save on individual pension insurance earn less than 400,000 kroner a year. There is also evidence that in the case of annuity, 40 pst. a net income of less than NOK 250000 — these figures are from Vital and Storebrand — and more than 50 pst. has a taxable asset of less than NOK 250000. The Council of State has acknowledged that the proposal has not been properly investigated. After TV 2 revealed yesterday that a severely disabled young woman will have her annual payments reduced by 30 p.m., yes she will actually get 90 000 kroner less to go with this year, the Council of State has recognised that this has not been properly looked at. Therefore, on behalf of the four parties, I would like to conclude that we want the proposal to be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. State Council Kristin Halvorsen has said that she will look into the consequences of the proposal. I then assume that you not only look at this single page that TV 2 has brought up yesterday, but that you also look at it a little wider than the individual links that the media take on. So I want to ask for the proposal to be submitted, but I am very clear that the Right considers this as an important part of the pension agreement, and we are very concerned about the consequences this has for individuals. I am happy to read the State Budget for 2007, where I assume that the Government has made a more thorough assessment of its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2520	I'm concerned with the division between health companies, where Health West and Health Mid-Norway is the worst way out. The challenge in the future is to balance the division of regions so that we get a fair distribution. It is important that the decisions taken in Stortinget are followed up, and that in this case it happens as soon as possible, and I think of St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004. Both patients and employees in the healthcare companies concerned experience unfair discrimination, and the problems with this have also intensified lately. We therefore proposed, together with the Right in the context of the treatment of the revised today, to correct the imbalance by an additional 49 healthy millions. Unfortunately, there will be no majority for this. Some fixes remain before St.meld's follow-up. No 5 has been implemented and there is now a need to review the calculation of the basic grant in conjunction with a comprehensive overview of the existing budgets and accounts of health establishments. This could form the basis for a common understanding of the challenges facing the hospital sector, and it would be appropriate to look at the distribution based on an overall assessment of the current situation. Population size and age composition, but also national priorities in the light of new tasks assigned to health businesses in recent years, should be included in an overall review of the distribution of income. In this regard, it is important to remind ourselves of the background to hospital reform, I think. The years before the hospital reform, Stortinget had to give additional money to the county councils almost every year to cover the deficits, and there was thus a lack of clear liability. The county authorities had ownership responsibility, while the responsibility for funding became increasingly state-owned, and the purpose of the reform, or some of it, was among others. the reduction of deficits and additional appropriations. It is important that health enterprises focus on the budgetary balance, activity growth and efficiency growth according to the mission they receive from their owners in the governance letters. On the other hand, the State must create predictability, including: by adjusting the opening balance sheet ratio, the reimbursement rates of the input-driven financing, balance sheet requirements, etc. It is difficult for Stortinget to assess whether waiting lists are the result of high costs or under-allocations. It is likely that all healthcare businesses, and not least patients, will be served with stable transfers based on national priorities, rather than with constant investigations, deficits and shifts in budget balances. First, however, the basis for funding must be fully put in place. The Christian People's Party meets the Government's efforts to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2531	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 4-13. [[Fotation, see page 2934]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2547	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2973]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2563	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2973]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2571	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-15.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2701	Votes will be put to the vote on the proposal by Mr Solveig Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 13 June 2006: «With reference to the Basic Law § 83, Stortinget Höjesterett asks for a consideration of the following in relation to the Basic Law §§ 97 and 105:1. Would it be contrary to the Basic Law to introduce a right for parties to be able to demand the redemption of the fastener without the agreement of the landowner in relation to existing fasteners?2. Would it be contrary to the Basic Law if any sum of redemptions were to be legalised to a certain number of times the fixation fee without an individual price fixing in which other factors are also weighted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2724	Votes will be put to the vote on the proposal by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the necessary regulatory changes to exempt the base from tax and employer’s tax with effect from 1 January 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2743	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the State Budget for 2007 to discuss and issue a model for the exemption of taxes on wealth on food. [[working capital]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e2773	In the course of the debate, 89 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-10, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 11, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 12, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motions Nos. 13–16, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 17, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left-wing proposal No. 18, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 19 and 20, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Left, No. 21-29, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 30-60 and No 88, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 61 and 62, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 63 and 64, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and the Left, proposals Nos. 65 to 67, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 68–73, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposals 74–80, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, No. 81-86, by Lars Sponheim, on behalf of Left-wing Draft No. 87, by Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, Proposal No. 89, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals Nos. 1–86 is included in the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 89, from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left turned into a textual proposal and said in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government review, including a public consultation, of the proposal to wind up the tax favorisation of individual pension agreements and annuities. [[IPA]] The assessment is requested from the State budget for 2007.’» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In the vote we are about to take, the President first takes the minority proposals and then the vote's motion for a resolution, and we start with the proposals from the smallest fraction. Proposals Nos. 81 to 86, from the left, is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e3841	Excuse me, President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e3848	There are then 6 votes in favour of the proposals and 98 votes against. These figures do not support the proposals. Proposals Nos. 74-80, from the Christian People's Party, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e4419	Proposals Nos. 68-73, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2006 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroners325Coordination measures for archives, libraries and museums73Project and development measures, increased by 5 000 000 from DKK 21 959 000 to NOK 26 959 000440Police Directorate – the Police and People's Session [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5310)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e4595	Proposals Nos. 65 to 67, from the right, is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e5343	Proposals Nos. 63 and 64, from the Right and the Left, are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e5568	Proposals Nos. 61 and 62, from the Right and Christian People's Party, are admitted to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e5671	Proposals Nos. 30-60 and No 88, from the Progress Party, is being taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e6758	Proposals Nos. 21-29, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7111	Proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Party of Advancement and the Left, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7200	Proposal No. 18, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, is taken up for a vote. Suggestion sounds: ‘The State budget for 2006 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner761Aids managed by Social and Health Directorates70Free drug-prevention work, etc., can be transferred, increased by 12 000 000 from 95 059 000 to 107 059 000844Cash aid70Appropriations, allocation of estimates, increased by 104 000 000 from NOK 2 407 000 to NOK 2 511 000 0001429Riksantikvaren [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4429)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7308	Proposal No. 17, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner470Free legal aid Grants to unremunerated research efforts, may be transferred, awarded at 15000000’» [[NY]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7424	Proposals Nos. 13–16, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7649	Proposal No. 12, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with an assessment of the peculiar charges currently imposed on the export industry and how these charges can be adjusted in order to avoid the extra heavy burden on some manufacturing companies by strange or particularly high charges.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7664	Proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, is taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones310Contributions to religious communities, etc. and private church buildings75 Grants to private church buildings, awarded at 9 400 000468The Commission for the Resumption of Criminal Matters [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3468)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e7756	Proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e8041	We have now voted on all the minority proposals. There remains one proposal in addition to the proposal for a decision to be put to the vote. That is proposal No. 87, from the Finance Committee, and that's what the President will come back to. Now, when we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the parties, in line with the practice of dealing with the revised national budget, are prepared to abstain from the vote they would normally vote at the final vote, in order to avoid a time-consuming and, in part, complicated voting where the result is given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion. Before we vote on the motion for a resolution, the President will refer to proposal No. 87, by Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen on behalf of the Financial Committee. The background to this proposal is the necessary adjustments resulting from decisions taken by the Stortinget on the current budget following the decision of the Financial Committee and which have therefore not been taken into account in the relevant chapters and items of the present proposal for a decision. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjectivesCroner732Regional health enterprises [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3732):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15622	So this is about the whole proposal for a decision in the vote. The President noted that the chapters and items adopted in proposal No. 87, the proposal for a decision now lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15639	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 2, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up new regulations and guidelines for the use of electronic communications services paid by the employer, which means that the tax obligation lapses entirely.New regulations and guidelines are applied retrospectively for the whole of 2006 and are presented to the Storting for information, at the latest in the context of the presentation of the Revised National Budget for 2006.’ [[Mobile phone and Internet]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15665	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the legislation on the taxation of paid employers’ electronic communications services and, where appropriate, to adjust the legislation in order to avoid excessive outbursts, at the latest in the context of the submission of proposals to the State budget for 2007.’.» The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15699	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and the Left Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘From 1 July 2006, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 24 November 2005 on the levying of chocolate and sugar products, etc. is amended as follows: [[(chapter. 5555 heading 70):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15727	Proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘From 1 July 2006, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 24 November 2005 on the levying of chocolate and sugar products, etc. is amended as follows: [[(chapter. 5555 heading 70):]] The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15783	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the 2007 State Budget, to propose that the document fee be reduced for all and that the Government submit a timetable for the complete liquidation of the document fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15807	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left, are taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that cohabiters who have children in common be exempted from the document fee for housing when they sell to each other.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15838	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the 2007 State Budget, to propose a neutral value added tax for central government, in line with the proposal in St.prp. [[2005-2006]] No Add Alternatively, between the proposal and the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15864	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to adjust the limits on the amount of the employer’s tax exemption for paid work for charitable or non-profit institution or organisation in line with the general wage increase and, if necessary, to propose amendments to the law on social security if necessary.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15890	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and the Left Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that an annual calculation of the tax-free day is carried out and that this is presented in the context of the State budget and in the context of the Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15915	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15922	Then the vote will be 79 votes against and 25 votes against. As a result, the proposal is still not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e15951	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose that the regional health establishments which are underfunded receive the additional appropriations necessary to reach a level in line with the national average by 1 January 2007 at the latest. The necessary funds must be additional and not be taken from other regional health establishments.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-16.ana.ud2330e16012	There is no record. This isn't the last meeting of the big session – it'll be in September – but it's the last meeting before the summer break. Therefore, the President will take the opportunity to wish everyone a good summer, a good mood and a good one. If things don't go well, the president thinks we must still have a good mood. It's health-threatening. The President will thank everyone for a very great work last autumn, in winter and in spring. Half of the representatives of Stortinget are new. It has been a pleasure to hear all the new and many young people in the debates here. It has also been a pleasure to see that many old traversers have flourished in government, and that many of the old traversers who came from government have flourished here in the staging room. That promises democracy in Norway. With these words: Good summer to all!
