ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e86	The called alternate from the Uppland County, Synnøve Branden Klemetrud, has taken the seat. See further correction, page 2632 The representatives Sverre Myrli and Jan Arild Ellingsen apply for leave from 12 June to 16 June, both to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Armenia and Georgia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Gorm KjernliFor Nordland County: Toril Ø. Hanssen
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e116	Gorm Kjernli and Toril Island. Hanssen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e122	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose to Sigvald Oppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e132	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose to amend the scheduled weekly programme for the current week, so that today, Monday, 12 June, the minutes of the Odelstinget Conference will be held at 1 p.m. 6:00 p.m. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e146	Differentiated employer’s fee has been the main instrument of Norwegian district policy for a number of years. It's absolutely certain, and it's unbureaucratic. It has been targeted and effective to stimulate employment and housing in those areas of Norway with low population density and struggling with depopulation. Norway was forced to wind up the scheme from 1 January 2004 because it was found to be in breach of the EEA Agreement. There has been considerable political impatience and conflict in the United Kingdom and in the political environment around this issue. I don't intend to rip that up today. The process of ensuring an opening in the Commission’s guidelines for a differentiated employer’s fee has been in place for several years. Under the previous government, the basis was to ensure an opening for the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee into the Commission’s and ESA’s new regional aid guidelines. However, the interpretation of this opening was not clear. There is room for different interpretations in several areas, and the interpretation to be used will ultimately determine the extent of the reintroduction of a differentiated employer's fee. This government has worked hard to arrive at an understanding with ESA that ensures a differentiated employer fee reintroduced approximately as it was before. It is a great victory for Norwegian districts and for an active district policy that a differentiated employer’s fee can now be reintroduced from 1 January 2007. That is why it is a pleasure for me and the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to be able to explain the content of this matter to the Stortinget today. So now we have the proposal. the notification, from the Ministry of Finance to ESA. In December last year, the European Commission adopted new guidelines on regional aid applicable from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, adopted the corresponding rules on 6 April of this year. The guidelines set an external framework for what EEA countries can provide of regional government support to business during this period, and regulate inter alia. schemes such as differentiated employer charges and regional investment aid. Within these frameworks, ESA interprets and enforces the legislation and shall approve the Norwegian arrangements and the scope of the regional policy instruments. Norway accepted the new guidelines on 5 May this year. This means that all regional aid schemes in Norway must comply with these guidelines from 1 January next year. Today, we want to explain the process of notifying, i.e. propose to ESA a new system of differentiated employer charges and a new scope of the regional policy instruments to be applied for the seven-year period 2007 to 2013. In order to ensure that we have a system of differentiated employer fees and a district policy scope in place from 1 January 2007, a close dialogue with ESA was established prior to Norway sending the formal notifications. The aim of the Government has been to implement the differentiated employer’s fee scheme as far as possible compared to the scheme in force until 1 January 2004. This applies both in terms of geographical scope and rate structure. In addition, attention has been paid to exempting as few sectors as possible from the scheme. It was a setback for Norwegian district policy as ESA did not accept a continuation of the general scheme of regionally differentiated employer charges after 1 January 2004. Differentiated employer's fee is our most important and effective district policy instrument. The scheme subsidizes direct employment in the districts. In addition, the scheme has low administrative costs for both the public and business sectors. The new legislation opens up, as is well known, a system of differentiated employer charges in very sparsely populated areas to prevent or reduce persistent population decline. The formulas that provide for a differentiated employer’s fee in the new guidelines are far from clear. There is room for different interpretations on several points, and the interpretation used, which I initially mentioned, will, of course, be crucial to the scope of the arrangement. Therefore, of course, the Government has worked systematically to interpret the legislation as lightly as possible in terms of its geographical scope, i.e. where it applies, business exemption, to get the most industries involved, rate structure, to get it as close as possible to what was the case, and the criterion on which the individual employer is to calculate the employer’s fee. ESA has, for its part, been in contact with the European Commission in order to ensure a consistent interpretation of the legislation throughout the EEA territory. It is clear that the new scheme will have a slightly changed technical design. In the current system of differentiated employer charges, the charge is calculated at the rate of the zone in which the individual worker is resident. The ESA claims that there should no longer be access to attaching the rate to the place of residence of the worker, because businesses, businesses, outside the scope of application, would then be able to receive regional aid when recruiting persons who commute from a scope. For example, a person residing in Oslo will have a zero employer’s fee in the action zone in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, and that is what ESA believes should no longer apply. The ESA now considers that only activities within the scope of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme can be covered. Therefore, when calculating the fee, the rate to be used will depend on the location of the enterprise. ESA also assessed other alternative criteria that would have become much more difficult to deal with. We believe that the way it is now put up to is easy and tidy to handle. As regards the delimitation of nutrition, it is clear that the new scheme will become more neutral than the 2003 scheme. In the 2003 scheme, parts of the shipbuilding sector, telecommunications, the financial sector, the transport sector and power generation, the extraction of petroleum and certain minerals and the production of certain steel products were excluded from the scheme. However, it is clear that the production of some steel products still needs to be exempted from the scheme itself. This is, of course, a sector that has generally been treated more stringently in the EEA State aid legislation, and the exemption from the receipt of State aid applies not only to a differentiated employer’s fee, but to all types of State aid in the EEA. This is linked to the history of the formation of the European Community and the European Union. The transport sector and shipbuilding have been two unsafe sectors. The whole transport sector is now included in the scheme at generally reduced rates. For shipbuilding, separate sectoral legislation prevails over regional aid legislation. The Code covers both the construction and repair of ships. This legislation does not currently open to operating aid. However, in 1999, Norway continued to do so. to ensure that shipyards in North Norway exclusively repair ships were included in the scheme, with reference to the fact that aid to these yards did not affect trade in the EEA. This approach has been rejected by ESA to date. However, the most difficult side of the ESA process has been related to the geographical scope and the structure of the differentiated employer fee scheme. According to the new guidelines, there are regions representing or belonging to a part of the country – in the tribal language it is called NUTS II regions – with eight inhabitants or fewer per capita. km2 which may qualify for operating aid as a differentiated employer’s fee. In addition, smaller adjacent areas meeting the same population density criterion may be included in the scheme. In the areas where the scheme is to be used, each country must demonstrate that the instrument is necessary and appropriate to prevent or reduce persistent population decline in the areas concerned. There are two parts of Norway that meet the population density criterion of eight or fewer inhabitants per year. ==Geography==According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of, of which is land and (1.0%) is water. North Norway and the economically weak parts of Hedmark–Oppland also have a persistent population decline. The starting point of Norway has therefore been that these areas can be recognised as part of the scope of differentiated employer charges. The remaining scope of the former differentiated employer tax scheme also meets the population density criterion and has seen a sustained decline in the population as a whole. An important point in the discussion with ESA has therefore been what is contained in the wording ‘smaller, neighbouring areas’. The interpretation of the wording at this point determines to a large extent the extent of the area in South Norway that can receive a differentiated employer’s fee. The guidelines state that national authorities must demonstrate that the aid scheme is necessary in the areas where it can be used. ESA and Norway agree that the aid should be used in the areas where it is needed, provided that the scope is coherent. The dispute over the interpretation of the guidelines between Norway and ESA has mainly concerned the geographical level at which the need for aid needs to be identified, i.e. the level at which the criteria for population density and population decline must be met and the extent of the scope outside the areas which qualify directly from the wording of the guidelines. The ESA has placed great emphasis on the need to qualify and assess areas at a low regional level according to both criteria, both population density and population decline. According to ESA, it is not sufficient to demonstrate this at sub-national level. The ESA, and probably also the Commission, are generally very critical that a system aimed at preventing population decline should include regions with population growth. The ESA therefore considers that regions with population growth or high population density cannot initially be included in the scope. This applies not only to neighbouring areas but also to areas within NUTS II regions, i.e. within a part of the country, Hedmark-Oppland and North Norway. They have required specific and strong justification in cases where such regions are to be included. Norway, for its part, has stressed that the scheme should also be allowed in smaller crop centres to prevent population decline. We have strongly argued that larger areas need to be seen in the context, so that we do not end up with an area that looks like a "laptop", where marginal differences in population density or population decline lead to discrimination against areas with quite similar rural challenges. As far as North Norway is concerned, we have shown that the country as a whole qualifies according to the criteria of the guidelines. As a region, the region meets the population criterion and has a negative population development. The government has also argued that the whole of North Norway must be included in the scheme, for example. pointing out that cities in Northern Norway provide important central functions for the whole of the country. The function of these centres is central to the reduction of the population in northern Norway as a whole. It is now assumed that the whole of North Norway is covered by a differentiated employer’s fee scheme. With the ESA’s interpretation of the guidelines, this was not obvious. Tromsø and Bodø are cities that have had a population growth well above the national average in the last ten years. The rate for Tromsø and Bodø is in the notification, or the proposal from Norway, set at 7.9 pst., i.e. something higher than the rest of Zone 4, which is 5,1 pst, but well below the general rate applicable in Zone 1, which is 14,1 pst. The zero rate of the employer’s contribution is maintained for the whole action zone. This, of course, was not the case either. In the process, ESA has asked questions about the cities of Hammerfest and Alta, which have had a population growth and have a higher population density, but it is therefore clear that the action area covers the whole of the former area. However, in South Norway, several municipalities covered by the scheme in 2003 will fall outside the new scheme. All these municipalities belonged to charging zone 2, i.e. the zone with the minimum rate reduction. During the conversion in 2004, Norway continued the 2003 rates within the limits allowed by the EEA de minimis legislation, the so-called ‘free payment scheme’. Even after 2007, we can continue such a free-of-charge scheme in municipalities that are not covered by the scheme at generally reduced rates. This arrangement involves about 60 pst. of the annual works in these municipalities pay a reduced fee. ESA will not allow a de minimis aid to be granted at the top of the approved regional aid scheme. Therefore, de minimis aid cannot be used in addition to a reduced rate in Bodø and Tromsø, even if they receive a rate that is slightly higher than before. In the current scheme, certain enterprises in the agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors still have the 2003 rates if the activity is linked to products not covered by the EEA Agreement. In the areas where rates are generally reduced, there will no longer be a need for a special scheme for those undertakings. However, in areas not covered by the 2003 scheme, there will still be a need for a specific derogation for the agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors. It is therefore proposed to continue this specific scheme for these areas. In total, the amount of the tax relief resulting from the notified scheme, i.e. the proposal that now goes from Norway to ESA, with a differentiated employer’s fee and a continued free-of-charge scheme in the municipalities that are not allowed to reintroduce a general low rate, will amount to about 90 pst. of the fee relief in the scheme until 1 January 2004. That is a very good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e224	Before the President gives the floor to the Council of State Åslaug Haga, the President will correct a mistake, saying at the beginning of the meeting that Synnøve Brend Klemetrud has taken his seat. What's right is that Torstein Rudihagen, the elected representative, has taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e230	The government's starting point has been that the entire old scope should be defended according to the wording of the legislation. However, ESA has clearly stated that they will not accept a reintroduction into an area of the same size as before. As noted by the Minister of Finance, ESA has placed great emphasis on the need for areas to qualify at a low regional level according to both criteria, population density, i.e. fewer than eight people per year. square kilometres, and population decline. ESA and Norway have agreed, on a proposal from ESA, to use housing and labour market regions as an approach to defining a coherent scope in South Norway. This is about functional economic regions where day-to-day commuting binds the region together. At the same time, Norway has strongly argued that the principle should not be applied mechanically, given that this approach does not match the reality of all parts of the country. The government’s assessment of needs is also anchored in the so-called district index developed by the Transport Economic Institute and NIBR, as well as further assessments of the underlying indicators. These quantifiable sizes are taken into account in relation to the functional regions of individual municipalities. We have notified some regions that do not fully meet the population density and population decline requirements or only parts of a housing and labour market region, for example in cases of isolated island municipalities or where individual municipalities are not integrated into the housing and labour market region of which they are part. Furthermore, consideration of developments at county and sub-national level has influenced the degree to which the approach at lower geographical level has been applied mechanically. For example, taking into account overall developments in North Norway and in Sogn and Fjordane, the government has placed greater emphasis on the regional and county levels in these areas. This is what ESA has accepted. I cannot, of course, enter all the municipalities that have received, and have not received, in this statement. It can be seen from the lists that are now on the web. But what I can say is that in smaller neighbouring areas to North Norway and Hedmark-Oppland, which was the starting point for sub-nationalisation, they now extend to Utsira and White Island in the west and to Setesdal in the south. So it's going to be larger, smaller, adjacent areas. ESA has always made it clear that they cannot accept the full reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee in all areas. This government has been open on the outside. The government has therefore worked in parallel with alternative schemes for those areas that are not allowed to re-establish the scheme as it was in 2003. The conversion shall be carried out in a neutral way, so that the increase in fees, compared to the 2003 scheme, is returned to the areas where an increased employer’s fee has been paid. For these areas, the Government proposes to continue the majority of the schemes established in the conversion of a differentiated employer’s fee on 1 January 2004. Thus, all areas that are not reintroduced or have a higher rate than in 2003 will be compensated. The Minister of Finance has already mentioned that the free payment scheme will continue in those municipalities that are not allowed to reintroduce a general scheme. Thus, each holding will retain the benefit of a lower tax rate within the de minimis rules. Undertakings with up to 30 employees will be fully screened for the increase in fees as a result of the free payment scheme. So that's it. The second is that the specific scheme for the agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors will also be continued in areas which are not allowed to reintroduce the scheme as it was in 2003, because agriculture and fish are not covered by the EEA Agreement. Thirdly, the Government will propose compensation to the municipal sector through the discretionary grant and other compensation to the State sector. The net reduced tax benefit resulting from the difference between the 2003 scheme and the notified scheme is provisionally estimated at less than 600 million. kr in the private sector, taking into account the free payment scheme. The remaining funds are returned to the areas where employers’ fees have been increased through the scheme of commercial resources for regional development. That's the fourth compensatory measure. The funds should go to the industrial effort in areas that the Government believes ideally should have recovered the same low rate of employers’ fees as they had in 2003. The government is concerned that business can be a key pre-dispenser in the design of the measures for which the funds are used. We also propose that the municipalities and the R & D and higher education communities be involved. Local and regional ministries will actively follow up on this user perspective. Once we have worked with the differentiated employer fee, we have, as you understand, had two thoughts in our head at the same time. We've been working on getting to as large an area as possible, and we've been working on compensatory measures. In addition to these two thoughts, we've also had a third thought in our head to get as complete a setup as possible. In parallel with the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee, the Government has also had a process with ESA to ensure that we have an approved scope for the operational district and regional policy instruments in place from 1 January 2007. This scope is also regulated by the new regional aid guidelines. There are other criteria for the demarcation of the district policy scope than for the demarcation of the differentiated employer fee scheme. According to the new guidelines, the general rural policy scope can still be based on areas with a low population density, i.e. counties – NUTS level III – with 12,5 or less inhabitants per square kilometres.It is in this turn only the scope of the district policy regimes, i.e. the map itself, which shall be notified and approved by ESA. Only when this framework is in place will ESA be able to deal with notifications of arrangements related to the territorial policy scope. The scope of rural policy is limited, inter alia, by: the use of regional policy loans and grants to enterprises through Innovation Norway. So what we're talking about is investment aid. In 1999, ESA approved a population coverage of 25.8 pst. by the population of Norway. Today, the scope actually covers about 24,5 pst. by the population. The new guidelines set a maximum population ceiling for the district policy scope of 29,1 pst., corresponding to the total population share in the nine counties with a low population density. It is the four northernmost states, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark, Oppland, Telemark and East Agder that lie within this. At the same time, ESA has underlined that a population ceiling of 29.1 pst. is only a theoretical starting point and that they will not be able to accept that Norway is expanding its scope to such an extent. The expansion of the area of regional aid in Norway will break the EU’s development, with other countries reducing their scope from 2007. Our understanding with ESA now is that they will be able to accept an increase in relation to today's scope. This is a very good result for Norway. As the only EEA country, Norway is allowed to expand its scope of application of the regional policy instruments from 2007. It implies an increased national freedom of action to pursue a more active district policy in a larger area. First of all, there are 12 and 1/2 inhabitants per. km2 or less at state level qualified to be included in the general district policy scope, as mentioned. Within the population level, the legislation provides for flexibility in the concrete geographical demarcation of the investment aid map, so-called ‘swaping’. In other words, in counties that do not meet the population density criterion, economically weak areas can be exchanged for the extraction of strong areas in counties that meet the criterion. Such flexibility is essential for Norway to be able to treat in a non-discriminatory manner areas facing, inter alia, the same challenges. related to population development, industrial structure, employment, economic development and large distance subsidies for residents and businesses. There are nine counties that satisfy the population density criterion as a whole: the four northernmost counties, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark, Oppland, Telemark and East Agder. Today, parts of the Southern Tributes, More and Romesdal, Hordaland, Rogaland, West Agder, Buskerud and Eastfold are also within the scope. The government has traditionally taken advantage of the opening to increase population coverage and has proposed to include 24 new municipalities in the scope. No municipalities will lose their regional political status. The new scope will thus have a population coverage of 27,5 pst. This implies an increase of 3 percentage points in relation to current scope. With this, we've taken full advantage of the real space for action. The new municipalities are located both in counties which fully satisfy the population density criterion and in counties that do not meet the criterion but are now ‘swaped’ into the scope. The new municipalities included are currently in Zone D within the district policy scope. Zone D is, as is known, not authorised for direct operating support under district-based schemes. In addition to the formal regulatory criteria, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has highlighted a number of professional criteria in the assessment of the areas to be included in the extended scope. As a contribution to this work, the Transport Economic Institute and the NIBR, commissioned by the Ministry, produced a report on how to delineate the territorial policy scope. In the report, the Transport Economic Institute/NIBR has reviewed and evaluated a broad range of criteria and statistical data related to geography, population, industry, employment, education and income, and, in view of this, a municipality index, which we call the district index. The index can be seen as a quantitative expression of the need for regional aid. A modified version of the TØI/NIBR district index has been part of the basis for defining the scope. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has further guided the principle of assessing municipalities in relation to larger regions of which they are a natural part. Thus, the audit is based on quantitative assessments on the one hand, and judgement on the other. The government will return to the question of possible geographical differentiation in the notification of the individual district-oriented schemes. This can only happen when the map, which is the outer framework, is in place. Some geographical differentiation of the permitted aid intensity is still relevant for example: regional policy loans and grants through Innovation Norway, and the allocation of district-oriented budgetary resources over the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The government will settle this in good time before the end of the year. There has been close contact between Norway and ESA in these cases, both with regard to the notification of a differentiated employer fee and the regional policy scope of investment aid. The purpose of the dialogue with ESA has been to actively influence the interpretation of the legislation and to identify the space for action prior to its transmission to ESA. If ESA cannot accept the notifications or is in doubt that they can accept them, they will open the formal investigation procedure. This could take significantly longer, and it is likely that it will go well into 2007 before any approval is obtained. A number of meetings have been carried out both at administrative and political level with ESA. Just before the EU Commission adopted the guidelines last year, the Finance Minister and I met both the responsible Commissioner of the European Commission and the then president of ESA. In the spring it has, among other things, three political physical meetings and five administrative meetings with ESA. In addition, there has been frequent contact per person. telephone between the President of ESA and the Government. ESA and Norway have discussed preliminary draft notifications. Through this dialogue, Norway has actively sought to influence ESA’s interpretation of the legislation. There has been a demanding dialogue. ESA has made clear demands, at the same time it is important to stress that we have had an impact on important parts of our reasoning. ESA has indicated that they do not have the capacity to deal with many notifications at the same time, and the notifications of differentiated employer charges and the general district policy scope have priority. The notifications that Norway has today sent to ESA, we believe that ESA will recognise in time for the scheme to come into force from 1 January 2007. These notifications are, as I said, promised priority by ESA. The main communication on regional and regional policy to be submitted on Friday 16 June will mention both the notifications and the arrangements for the compensatory measures. The proposal for a new system of differentiated employer charges and compensatory measures is presented in the 2007 government budget. However, this depends on the fact that the notifications have been accepted by ESA before the state budget is presented, but we expect that. The government has worked hard to reintroduce the differentiated employer fee and, as the only country in the EEA, expand the district policy scope. This is a working victory and a long step forward for Norwegian district policy. Active European policies have produced results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e295	Having regard to Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the President will now propose the possibility of a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, and possibly a closing post from the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e300	In the Soria Moria Declaration, there is a very concrete sentence that says that the Government will: «Reintroduce the geographically differentiated employer fee scheme». After the presentations given by the two Councils, we can pick another point in the Soria Mora statement and write in the margin: implemented! It is joyous, and especially happy, because it is a reintroduction of perhaps the most important and effective district policy instrument we have, and therefore the results obtained through consultations with ESA are a victory for an active district policy. It is gratifying, not least because it is a conclusion after several years of uncertainty, and because the Government has gained a great deal of impact on its interpretations of the legislation, not least by the fact that all municipalities in zones 5, 4 and 3 – except Bodø and Tromsø, which were specifically mentioned, which will still have a reduced employer’s tax – are now part of the scheme. I think I will allow myself to say that the concept of'smaller, neighbouring areas' has been interpreted liberally in our negotiations, and it is impressive that such a liberal interpretation has been so far implemented. I would particularly like to stress the joy of the fact that the scheme is now becoming more business-neutral than it has been in the past, i.e. that more industries are covered by the scheme than was the case in the past. Let me mention the transport sector in particular, because it is precisely from the point of view of long distances and extra transport costs that we have fought for these instruments. Just because the schemes are good, it almost makes things worse for those who have not come back into the new area of activity. Therefore, compensatory measures become so important. It was mentioned by the State Councils that anyone in the 2003 scheme, who is outside now, would still benefit from the so-called de minimis aid scheme, i.e. the free payment scheme, and that it would include perhaps 60 pst. by industry, by the number of jobs, and largely enterprises with up to 30 annual works. In addition, when we know that municipalities are compensated for by the discretionary means and that we still want to use industrial policy regional development funds, the scheme will result in revenue that we receive because some taxes are not reduced, in its entirety being used for compensatory measures, that it is thus non-profit-making. In addition, it is very gratifying that the scope of the regional policy instruments can now, in fact, not only be maintained but extended by 24 municipalities – that 27,5 pst. the population is covered by it — and this is the case with former zone D municipalities, which can now use active instruments, which have not been possible through being zone D municipalities. Both in the election campaign and through our constant meetings with the business community around Norway, there was and is one common requirement that remains, and that is: predictability in business policy. One welcome element of what the State Councils have now said is that the Government considers that these arrangements should apply as long as they are applicable to the EEA territory. This applies both to the reduction of charges, to the territorial policy area and to the compensatory measures. This means that, until 2013, Norwegian business will now know what is going to be the industrial policy instruments in the district policy area. That's why it might also be one of the most joyful results of the job that the Government has done, namely that we're going to have another piece in the government's work, which makes sure that the total industry policy is more predictable than what has been the case up to now. The arrangements we are discussing here are a typical example of instruments that have been unpredictable in recent years and where we have now had predictability in place. In doing so, we also provide business with more predictable framework conditions, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e319	First, I want to thank you for your statement. Initially, I would like to state that the Progress Party is in agreement with both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Local Government and Regional Affairs that a differentiated employer’s fee as it was before 2004 was both a clear and unbureaucratic system of which there was broad political agreement. Now the red-green parties went very hard into the election campaign and promised to reintroduce the differentiated employer fee both geographically and in relation to the rate structure, as it was before 2004. It is obvious that what has been done well for today is a step in the right direction, but it is far from the seven-mile stage that the government party promised in the election campaign. One then promised that this would be reintroduced 100 pst, while we are now told that it is 90 pst. the degree of flooding compared to 2003. There are also a number of other issues that lie within the system that is now being reintroduced, which are problematic, among other things. that Tromsø and Bodø, which we have been informed about, will receive an employer's fee of 7.9 pst., while the area around these cities will have 5.1 pst. Of course, there is also a filling rate of only 90 pst. means that there are also several areas that previously had a lower employer's fee, which do not receive the same fee as before. As far as I'm concerned, there's also nutrients that get away. Of course, how the effects of these weaknesses will be will be in the longer term, and it is difficult to draw any impact assessments from the Chair now. It is also very interesting to note that the government party has now realised that better framework conditions and lower taxes are a good tool to ensure employment and value creation in the districts. Of course, this is the end of the Progress Party. We also mean that this reasoning and that argument also apply to the rest of the country. Lower taxes and taxes and better framework conditions will ensure better value creation and will also ensure jobs. When it comes to the costs of this conversion, it's not so much said about it. It's made here as if someone's getting considerably better, and no one's getting worse. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs tried to suggest that this should be done within a province-neutral framework. Luckily, most people in this room — perhaps not all, but most of them — understand that if someone should get better, and no one should get worse, this must necessarily cost money. Whoever's going to finance this, we haven't got a response. I have previously asked the Minister of Finance about who is going to finance the various measures. What I've been told is that it's the rich that are going to finance. Well, that's the way it is in this case, too. Probably it's not the kingdoms that live in the districts, but other kingdoms. I do not know how one intends to do this, but if someone is to get better out and no one is worse, this must be financed in one way or another, at least if one is to return to the 2004 tax level. The progress party is not afraid of these costs. We believe that tax relief is a good investment, a good tool to ensure value creation. Therefore, this should be unnecessary to cover from other areas. And then finally, I just want to sum up and say that this is a step in the right direction. It is not long enough, at least not as far as the government party promised in the election campaign. It also has some weaknesses and consequences that are open to problems, and eventually it will be discovered how problematic they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e340	There has long been broad political agreement that the differentiated employer charge is the most effective regional policy instrument for maintaining housing and employment in districts. For this reason, it has been a common objective to accept a regulatory framework that will provide the basis for a system of regionally differentiated employer charges, which could cover as much as possible the area previously covered by the scheme as possible at the same level. We therefore think it is good that a long process has led to today's result. This is very important for large parts of District Norway. Workplaces and value creation are a prerequisite for residence throughout the country. By reducing the employer’s fees, some of the disadvantages may be, among other things. distance from the markets is compensated. The work on building alliances and influencing the European Commission has already begun with the Bondevik II government in 2002–2003. I am pleased that the government today is able to be honest about this process in the presentations and indicates that the main principles were clear before the Stoltenberg II government took over. In the last few months, we have seen a tendency towards the opposite, especially the Prime Minister's article in Today's Business Saturday, June 3, when his timing started with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Municipal Affairs going to Brussels one week before the Commission took the final decision. If the two Councils honestly believe that the Commission’s position in this meeting has changed, the meeting with such a dynamic and open organisation should immediately have led to a change in the position of the two Councils in the EU case. There is reason to have an understanding that this government is thirsting for victory, but when the Prime Minister writes that this is a great victory for the sitting government, it is high on the level that the Swedish national team leader is satisfied with Saturday's 0-0 against Trinidad and Tobago. As an EEA expert, Pal Frisvold of the Nations says on Friday 9 June: ‘If anyone on the Norwegian side deserves honor, it is the previous government that was active against the European Commission, prior to the design of the legislation.’ The right-wing believe that today's presentations should have come a month ago. Now that we know the result, it means that the Storting, and hence the communities involved, have not been included in the balances that led to today's map and today's system. Within the guidelines laid down by the EU, there have been balances in the Government, including: in relation to the emphasis to be placed on the district index. We believe that there is a blow to the transparency line that the Government announced upon its accession, that this discussion was not taken in Stortinget before the matter was concluded. In fact, this is about the essential framework conditions for individual communities. What priorities and balances led to who was chosen is therefore very important. Such questions should have been discussed by the Government with the plenary — open — before the final decisions were taken. But today there is absolute reason to agree that this winner is primarily a victory for those districts that once again have a good and effective order. This is a common political victory for a united political Norway, which has stood on and behind the same goal, as we are convinced that the current government has also worked hard to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e358	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Government on the employer. We who have been working on this theme in Stortinget for many years know that the solution presented today was not obvious. That is why, after the last article, I now feel a little need to contribute to the history description of this case. When the judgment was given in May 1999, and the European Court of Justice found the differentiated employer’s fee illegal as regional aid, only one party thought that the government should start work here to find schemes that could compensate, or convince the EU that this was a system we had to maintain. Maybe I don't need to mention the name of that party. In addition, after the situation was recognised by everyone and it was understood that the government had to do substantial work in both areas, both to convince ESA and the EU that the support regime we had in Norway was a good regime, and to find alternative solutions where it might not be possible to reintroduce it, there has been a very long process. Some of us have participated in it, and it is good to say that from parts of the Storting there has been a considerable pressure on the previous government when it came to both the scope of what was to be done, and the individual parts of the aid scheme that the previous government was not particularly interested in doing so much to continue. So on the SV side, we have to say that we see a big difference in the activity and emphasis that this government has had in both areas. It's very gratifying that the entire regime's volume has been reintroduced, i.e. 90 pst. of the different employer’s fee scheme and the missing 10 pst. is the continuation of some of the compensatory arrangements that the previous government was also involved in. Of course, it has been a great effort to adapt the interpretation of the new EU support regime to Norwegian needs and reality. Because I also need to say that we in Norway must, of course, recognise the needs of EU countries in order to have a regime that fits the challenges they face. In this area, criteria for poverty and economic underdevelopment are much more important than in large parts of Norway, which face the geographical challenges, with population decline and low population density as its main regional policy challenges. I am very pleased that this government has seen that it is possible to create a new support map, which has released something from the support map that the previous government – I guess – did not see any special possibilities to change. It has been necessary, for as Norway has been set up, there is a kind of Fjell-Norway, especially in South Norway, which has challenges that are at least in line with what can be seen in the northern parts of the country. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Government is able to put in place a geographical area of support that is much better suited to the actual regional policy challenges that we face in Norway than would be possible for a period of time. So to this by continuing the de minimis scheme for some enterprises. We are pleased that we have had a positive impact on this. In addition to this, I would say that in many of the areas where regional policy funds have been provided for compensation, parts of business have also been very satisfied with the way this has worked. So I don't see any reason to be depressed, or dissatisfied with the fact that parts of the country are getting ahead of that system. On the contrary, strengthening the arrangements could have a good impact on regional and industrial policy in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e373	Differentiated employer’s fee is the best and most accurate regional policy instrument we have for maintaining housing and employment in the districts. So it was with a heavy heart we had to put it away two and a half years ago. Under the Cooperative Government, we are actively working to try to influence the EU to change the legislation. All possibilities were used: written input to the Commission and verbally in meetings at both political and administrative level. The previous government and the current government have had the aim of being accepted for a regulation that must provide the basis for a system of regionally differentiated employer charges, which may include North Norway, parts of the Nord-Trøndelag and parts of South Norway. The scheme must be based as closely as possible on the situation in Norway, which ensures, in the best possible way, the future of rural policy. Under the Government of Bondevik II, Norway had a strong impact on our reasoning in the European Commission. It is gratifying that the EU has now amended its district-based instrument legislation to allow the reintroduction of the scheme. This government has done a good job to get an impact on Norway’s interests. There is no reason to question the Government's efforts towards ESA in order to interpret the legislation as lightly as possible in terms of geographical scope, nutritional exemptions, rate structure, etc. The government has achieved a lot, even if we had hoped it would be even better. And maybe it's that the current state councils probably have learned that it's not just to pinch their fingers, and then the EU and ESA do what we want. It sounded a little bit easier when they were in opposition. Differentiated employer’s fee is an important regional policy instrument. The matter is therefore of crucial importance to our ability to facilitate the creation of value throughout the country. Valuation is a prerequisite for settlement, community with optimism and positive development. There is no doubt that it is the best instrument for the municipalities that are now getting the scheme back. But we also know that a number of municipalities are going to be out of order. For these municipalities, it is important that the compensation scheme continues and alleviates the problems. The government announced that the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee would be neutral in value, that all areas not reintroduced by the scheme in force in 2003 would be compensated, and that the majority of the schemes currently in force as an alternative to a differentiated employer’s tax would be continued. In addition, the Government has announced that this will be further discussed in the forthcoming Landfill Communication on Regional Policy and the State Budget. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must be even more concrete. All municipalities that may not be reintroduced a differentiated employer’s fee must be fully compensated. The government council Haga said that the municipalities that the government believes should have been reinstated. I hope it's to understand that it's all those who had it before. It's nodding the state council, and that's good. We have to avoid that municipalities get worse compared to the compensation schemes. The government announces that the majority of schemes currently in force as an alternative to a differentiated employer’s fee will be continued. The Halvorsen and Haga State Councils have presented the arrangements today, and it is good that the free payment scheme or de minimis aid be continued in those municipalities that fall outside a new scheme. Furthermore, it is very good that the specific arrangements for the agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors continue in these municipalities, and it is good that public employment is compensated. We would also like to point out that it is equally important that you continue with the business-driven development funds in the municipalities that are now outside. It has proved to be a successful alternative to a differentiated employer’s fee in municipalities such as the Netherlands. Sauda.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e392	This is a great day for all those who are concerned about offensive regional and regional policies. There is a clear feather in the hat for two engaged and solution-oriented state councils. There is a solid example of the use of conducting an active dialogue with Brussels. A large number of people have said that the differentiated employer’s fee is the best regional policy tool we have. When Bondevik II announced a loss from 1 January 2004 as a result of an ESA charge, the reactions were strong. Both in the country and in the United Kingdom, many called for a more offensive attitude to compensatory measures. A period of awareness that the National Committee and the DA network were several more active vis-à-vis Brussels led a different and clearer dialogue with ESA than the Norwegian government. Therefore, it is right to remind you that an initiative was taken in Stortinget in the autumn of 2003, in the first round by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – the Progress Party joined. As a result, it was a co-conspiracy that gave a mission to the impending government to take a new round in Brussels. Both the budgetary position of the Financial Committee and of the Municipal Committee show the importance of complete and lasting compensation, the importance of industry-specific exemptions and also a proprietary selection of instruments to look at the space for action, as well as a more active work towards the EU system. My advice to Bent Höie in relation to what he said will actually be to read the record from the EEA Committee as late as 26 April in 2005, because it is now released. It shows that the dormant government wrote letters, it shows that it was an engagement, but it actually shows so late that the government had as its minimum goal to change for the four northernmost states, and that at that time an actual one was uncertain about having a North-Tronde team with within the scheme. This is the result that is being presented today, extra good. 90 pst. reintroduction over 2004 must be clear beyond what many had expected in advance. There's no reason to believe that hasn't already been tried to get that percentage even higher. There's no need to dwell on anything special in the past. Now, what we're all going to be happy about is that we're getting a setup that's solid from 2007 to 2013, with the preoccupation that it means both for business and for municipalities. It is especially true that while one of the most recent discussions in April about the affluent areas of North-Trøndelag was held, today a map is presented where the affluent areas go all the way down to White-Eye and Utsira and Evje and Hornnes in Setesdal. The government presented a three-point strategy — the range of differentiated employer charges as high as possible, compensatory measures as comprehensive as possible, and a holistic approach. I think this, as it looks now, is so absolutely very positive. This also means that 24 new municipalities will be on the map of the regional policy tools. It means greater national freedom of action for district policy, and that means a good start to the big-time message to be discussed in the autumn. I note that the compensatory measures should be developed in close association with the business to which they relate. I think that's very important, not least because there are already good models in many regions in that field, with the experience they've gained so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e410	It would have been tempting to comment on the last post. The heat in the last few days may have been hard with the memory of the representative Meltveit Kleppa, but some of us remember back to the election campaign and the municipalities she then traveled in. It gets measured up against the map that is being served online if not for that long, I hope. I have waited throughout the debate to see if it is not available soon. So that's not going to do it yet. Let me first take the perspective of this that the struggle to attract labour may be one of the most societally changing processes that is now taking place in our society. There's a tough fight going on for businesses, for industries and for regions to get a workforce. It's the main dynamic that makes us now, when the Norwegian economy goes too full, also experience the strongest pressure on the edges ever. If we take our strongest regions, like along the west coast and here in the Oslo area, we see how they attract labour from the outskirts. It is not least related to the fact that the edges have industries that do not have the same payment capacity as the industries in the central struts. That's what this is really about. This is an important, but perhaps not so much, contribution to trying to compensate some of it, which will make it viable for industries on the outskirts with less ability to pay for labour than in central strikes. It could have been tempting to be a bit polemic with the Government when we hear – after half a year – in this Chamber how the words ‘more nutritious’ have become in the mouth of the government parties in this debate. I'm not going to do that. Nor shall I make a point of the fact that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local Government has now stepped down a well-used hammer into the newly acquired jewelry box of the Minister of Industry. It might be he needs it there. But I'm going to stop and dwell on what's a little bit of the point, that there's a change in the industrial policy arrangement of this new tool, which hasn't been touched in this debate, that's that you're now following the companies where they're located, and not the workforce where it had to travel and bring a low employer's fee to a new job. I think it's basically good. It strengthens the businesses on the outskirts. It does not, in itself, make the labour force from the outskirts more competitive when entering cities. That's not what we're primarily looking for either. But it can actually attract a lot of outside labour, for example. from Oslo, that one travels to Hammerfest or elsewhere to take on exciting and great work. So I think in total that's good. The most important thing about what's happening now is that North Norway as a whole is getting a powerful tool. The main job we have in district policy is to make sure that North Norway is able to participate in the competition for labour. It's the most important thing in what's happening now, and I think that's satisfactory. So I think we'll just register it as a small parentheses that Tromsø and Bodø will live with a small regional experiment with a slightly higher employer's fee. It can get a few small conclusions with a little bit of rarity, but I don't think it means anything to what's fundamental, to make North Norway competitive in the struggle for labour. So it's South Norway and the map of South Norway, which is probably going to be discussed. No one should determine whether this is good or not until you see the map, because it will probably be perceived as significantly unfair. And politics is unfair by sticking to what is unfair, and not everything that has been achieved. The 90 p.m. society – via the President of Karin Andersen – many have argued strongly against, but now it is put quite blatant in the system here that it is 10 p.m. Which is going to experience this as profoundly unfair, and they'll probably have reason for that when we see the map. Then all of a sudden, back and forth isn't the same distance, it's just almost the same distance. What is the policy of this now? For now you try to say, who has the honor, who has been the best, etc.? I think the Minister of Finance said the wise thing: I don't think we're going to rip this up. Because I think it's quite evenly distributed unrently busy in the debate that's been so far. I think the government has done a good job. I have no knowledge of the Government's internal life and work, in order to be able to say anything other than that what can be done, the Government has done. I'm gonna be so honest. But then it should not be lied about what the previous government did, and for example. that EU policies have changed dramatically. When the Soria Moria Declaration was written, it was known that that policy had changed. So we're going to have to talk the truth about what's the framework. But I think the government has done what can be done when you want to get the most differentiated employer fee. Then we will have some problems and debates about functional economic regions, as it is called, where ‘day commuting connects the region’, as the Minister of State said. Where does district policy stand after this? Yes, we're almost back to where we once were, with an instrument that obviously centralized Norway significantly. So now this doesn't have to be a break. We need new and powerful instruments, where we think new, and which are put on top of the policy that is now being established, and we can hope for the forthcoming district announcement that something like this will happen. I think it is necessary to pay a very special attention to the municipalities that are now falling outside, which are located in so-called growth-intensive labour regions, but which still want to provide more jobs for their own municipality in order to drop workers on long-term commuting. It's going to be a major challenge, and maybe that's what we should focus on in the future. For many of them, this is not solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e429	Let me start where the representative Sponheim left off: what we're getting now is 90 pst. of the fees that we had received through a differentiated employer’s fee. The remaining 10 pst. shall be compensated for by other measures to those municipalities that are now falling away. So we've secured 90 pst. of the fees, but we have secured 100 pst. in relation to the amount of money to be spent on such schemes. Just to say a little about the size we're talking about here, it's that the differentiated employer's fee, as it was in 2003 – if we count it to 2007 – amounts to 9.9 billion kroner in district vehicles. This applies to both the public and private sectors. The private sector receives DKK 6 billion of this in benefit, and the public sector $3.9. Thus, we are talking about a large and comprehensive regional policy instrument that has been effective – it is incredibly low administrative costs – and focused on what it is about, namely employment and housing in areas with low population density and characterised by relocation. That's the system that we can now implement 100 pst. in the case of the money, 90 pst. in the case of the fee bit thereof. So to a point that the Progress Party made, that is, that this proves that tax- and tax-free is alpha and omega. No, it doesn't. It proves that the differentiation, namely that there can be different rates on the basis of precisely the population density and the economically weak areas, is what has contributed to making up the district policy in this, not the tax and tax burden in itself. So this is about the business neutrality of the scheme. Yes, it is very important to have different schemes for different industries in the context of a differentiated employer’s fee is difficult to deal with. It makes the strangest boundaries, so it is very good that it has been possible to extend the scheme to more industries. But we have a challenge in terms of the shipbuilding industry, because it is not clear what kind of arrangements can apply in the future in terms of it. But we have to take care of it all the way to the goal. The best sign is that we have now done a good job, and we have set ourselves the goal of a very good district policy system, is that the theme of today's debate in the Storting is not to try to allocate blame for a bad scheme, but to try to distribute the credit for a good scheme. There are so many people here who want to invoke the father for this, and so many mothers who are ready to take credit for this product we have now managed to get out, and that's the best sign that there's been a good job here. At some point, someone had given up. We don't have to spend time on that today. Now we've got a plan in place. We like to give credit for the effort that has been made, and we've been on it to get something that's good. In the question of how Stortinget should be informed and included in this process, we would like to come back to how we will deal with EEA matters in the future, and in the context of Stortinget getting issues about this. But the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and I have been in the EEA Committee and informed about the situation at the time we were in front of the final question on 15 May. After that we have gone a round, which cannot be said to be consulting Stortinget, with the parliamentary leaders, with a much greater degree of detail in relation to maps, municipalities and back and forth. There is, in fact, a much greater impact in the final question before negotiations than a public hearing would have been given, because we are in a drag fight about principles and about individual areas that are difficult to engage in in some kind of plenary debate. We'd like to discuss how we can do this better in the future, because we want the most transparency around this, but when you're in a negotiating situation with ESA, it's hard to manage both to achieve the best possible results and to include as much as possible along the way. With this, I would like to end this debate, and congratulate the Norwegian Government and, in particular, the Norwegian District Authority on the reintroduction of a differentiated employer's fee in Norway – a very important regional policy instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e446	The debate on the two presentations is closed. In the light of the debate, the President could be tempted to suggest that we all welcome the fact that it has been proved that it is possible to influence the European Union, but sees the need to propose a somewhat more neutral decision, namely that the two statements are annexed to the Minutes. [[muttering in the hall]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e462	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government and after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e473	The size will now address the big business message about the financial management of the Defence. This is, of course, a theme that received a lot of attention in the last part of the last enlargement because of the large budget exceedances in defence. In this big message, the Government provides information on the development of the economic governance of the Defence. The notification mainly covers those parts of the Defence which received significant comments from the National Audit Office on both the 2003 and 2004 accounts in relation to the Defence Military Organisation. The notification describes the financial assumptions of the Defence Military Organisation and the status of improvement actions undertaken. Furthermore, the Communication describes the measures taken to regain control of financial management in those parts of the Defence Military Organisation where governance has failed, especially in 2004. There is reason to be satisfied that a number of measures have already had a significant positive impact and that they are closely monitored, evaluated and further developed. Despite these improvements, we may still face some challenges. Therefore, it is important to continue to focus strongly on financial management in the further transformation of defence. This is also pointed out in the message. I find reason to commend those who have their work in Defense, for the work that has been done lately in order to control the economy, and in a constructive way to work with heavy and difficult transitions. In this context, I would like to say that it is gratifying that a joint committee in the vote says that, where possible and appropriate, priority should be given to streamlining the internal efficiency of the Defence Military Organisation instead of delegating parts of its activities to external actors. This clearly tells us that the Storting trusts and believes in the competence of the professionals in the Defense now, and in the opportunities for the future recruitment of the Defence. The Committee has noted that the Government will continue mainly the modernisation of the Defence under the 2005-2008 Long-term Plan and that there will be a review of the experience of downsizing, privatisation and tenders, public private partnerships and horizontal interaction in Defence. This is a completely necessary process that needs to be carried out in order to eliminate the future course of defence. I feel absolutely sure that this is something the defence employees and their organisations will contribute in a good and constructive way. The Program Golf has been the joint effort of the Defence Agency on a new management system for economics, personnel and logistics. The system is an essential tool for achieving the objectives of the conversion of defence and for obtaining common and integrated processes across all defence sectors and departments. The majority – all except the Advance Party – supports the Government’s decision to continue the development of the programme based on the original strategy for a unified IT system. The majority are satisfied that the Government will return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner when final decision-making documentation and the costs of the LOS project, as the programme is now called, have been developed and quality assured. I expect the Progress Party itself to present its own view where they stand with their own comments. A joint committee has also noticed that the defense is working purposefully to improve procedures and processes in order to avoid debt collection, and that the aim is that invoices should be paid at maturity. This is a very important objective which is of great importance to the reputation of public authorities in relation to their partners. The Committee takes the view that, in the future, traders should not go to debt collection to obtain a fair settlement for goods and services delivered. Through the media, there has also been a great deal of focus on the widespread use of consulting services in the defence sector. It is very positive that the Government has put in place a much more restrictive practice with regard to the tasks that consultants have to perform in the defence sector. An overall committee also welcomes the fact that the Minister of Defence has initiated an external investigation into the existence of irregularities or criminal offences related to the use of consulting services in the Defence. The size has repeatedly pointed out that there is no satisfactory control of the defence material. There is now a complete review of the material management of the defence, including procedures, competence and deviation management. This work shall contribute to better and more efficient material management. The Committee takes the view that the Storting will be briefed on its outcome. There is also a need to note the measures taken to ensure better management and control of disposal. This is something that has engaged many around the country, and there has been a demand for better control of such sales. An overall committee assumes that the sale of the properties of the Defence is carried out under the Disposal Instructions and that the needs of the Community for certain types of properties of great cultural and historical importance are taken into account for the protection of nature and for the opportunities for outdoor life of the general public. Horizontal trade is an area that has created a lot of debate because it also concerns financial management. Horizontal trade is practised in the defence sector to increase the cost awareness of actors and thereby ensure the most rational operation possible. We all know that this has not worked according to purpose in all contexts, and that this is a significant potential for improvement. Therefore, it is positive that this too is an area that has been covered in order to eliminate negative effects as a result of inappropriate practice. I have listed many aspects in this article that are now being reviewed and cleaned up. It clearly shows that the Government and Defence have been quick and effective in their efforts to implement measures to improve financial management in the Defence. This was also something that the Workers' Party promised before the elections last fall, and it is also set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is likely that the modernisation of the defence will have to go further, and significant conversion measures will still have to be expected. Such processes will usually be painful both for individuals and for society around them, but with sound and transparent financial management at the bottom predictability will be greater and processes less painful. I think that with this, we have come to a good start in building a more robust and forward-looking defence, and I am pleased that there is so much agreement on the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e516	St.meld. No 10 for 2005-2006, About Economic Governance in Defence, can be enjoyable reading for many. For many, it may seem that the defense has got its economy in line with previous years, and this is, of course, good. But those who want to read more and investigate what this has cost will be surprised, and these are surprises of a negative nature when you look at what the Defense has reduced its activity with. What has been positive is the control of the use of funds. This could seem to be lacking in previous budgets, but now the activities of the defence, to which I am going to come back to, have remained within the budgetary framework allocated for 2005 under all chapters. For the two years 2003 and 2004, there were other errors and shortcomings, and the 2003 accounts were also not approved. It can't be like that. In the view of the Progress Party, the defense loses its credibility, and a defense that struggles with the credibility of the population has a huge problem. In addition, the defence has made a number of strange disposals and has made decisions that large sections of the population do not understand. Neither does the Advance Party. The defence is indebted, inter alia, to: on their dataset, such as, inter alia: resulted in mispayments of wages and salaries. This is unacceptable, we believe. The employees who did not get the right pay at the right time – and there were relatively many – were frustrated, and after what I heard, it left a damper on their work effort and motivation. At the same time, the Progress Party here today will praise and praise all the civil and military personnel in the Defense who have endured and done a fabulous job, despite all the challenges and concerns they have had lately. Once again, this is a matter of great respect. Otherwise, it is clear that the transition we have had in defence has taken a lot of energy and resources. Getting rid of 5,000 annual works and reducing a large and heavy-weight building mass, with a reduced budget, has created many challenges. The Progress Party has looked at this challenge with great interest. We believe it has gone too fast, and that it has not been right to cut the budget. Should we have a military activity and, among other things, presence in our northern areas costs this money. The other parties have first decided how much money they want to spend, and then thought you'd get a good enough defense. This is why, among other things: the military exercise capacity has been reduced. The Progress Party wants a budget that is proportionate to the military activity we expect to have, especially in our neighbourhoods. Norway is a special country to protect because of its shape and its borders, and our interests in our marine areas must also be taken into account. This may be where our oil activity is at the head, but fishing is, among other things. also vulnerable. That's why it was a happy day last Thursday, where, among other things, Part of the Defence Committee participated in the inauguration of Oslo by the first of five new frigates, namely KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’. This costs, but unlike the government party SV, the Progress Party believes that we have to afford this, and then have budgets. It will be exciting to follow the debate further and see what the Government is doing. Program Golf, now renamed LOS, has been the defense's investment in new management system for economics, personnel and logistics. The Programme Golf has consisted of several projects to establish a common integrated defence management system. The Party of Progress has recorded that the final volume of the logistical solution and its associated costs has not been clarified. This is worrying in the opinion of the Progress Party, as we have seen from experience that the cost growth of the project has been enormous compared to estimated estimates for the project. We note that in connection with the changes that will come, and in order to mark a new start, the Ministry of Defence has decided that the Program Golf should rename the LOS program in Defense. Furthermore, the Progress Party has registered that the two planned delivery projects will at the same time change the name of the Economic Project and the Logistics Project. In this context, we are concerned that it is necessary to clarify what these projects involve economically and organisationally. Furthermore, we are concerned that the scope of the economic project is not finally clarified. In this context, we would like to stress the fact that the Riksrevision has pointed out that several projects have been granted framework increases after their approval. The Progress Party otherwise agrees with the Riksrevision that such framework increases can be avoided if good planning is implemented before a project is approved. The Party of Progress has registered that horizontal trade is an area which has been the subject of debate. The Progress Party is aware that the practice of horizontal trade is related to financial management. Even so, the Progress Party believes that this problem needs to be looked at more closely. With a background in Stortingen's Innst treatment. S. No 272 for 2004-2005, cf. St.meld. No 29 for 2004-2005, the Ministry of Defence initiated an overall evaluation of the Horizontal Trade System in Defence. The Progress Party has registered that the head of defence has evaluated the practice of horizontal trade in view of its further development, as well as in order to eliminate negative effects resulting from inappropriate practice. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government will come back with more information on measures to improve horizontal trade in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. The Progress Party has noted that the idea behind the practice of horizontal trade in the defence sector is to increase the cost awareness of actors and thereby ensure the most rational operation possible. The Party for Progress is sceptical as to whether this objective is actually strengthened through today's system of this trade. The Progress Party is aware that trade is taking place, among other things. between defence buildings and the other sectors of the defence sector, and that these other departments pay rent to Defence Buildings, which manage all conditions at the building stock on behalf of the Ministry of Defence. In this context, the Progress Party is skeptical of its results. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is often the case that defence departments seek the short-term most economical solution to meet their area needs. In the view of the Progress Party, this has led to a number of unfortunate priorities. Among other things, it has resulted in expensive materials being stored outside cold garages instead of inside the garages, as this causes the department to incur operating costs they cannot cover within given appropriations. It is very irrational, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to act in this way, as there is no significant cost of maintaining the operation of cold garages in the various departments because the investment has already been made. It must not, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be such that defence departments avoid using, dispose of or discarding building mass in order to save money in situations where there will be a real need to store material or operate in already existing satisfactory premises. The Progress Party is aware that horizontal trade is also taking place between the Defence Logostics Organisation and other parts of the Defence Military Organisation. The Progress Party is also somewhat skeptical about the real cost savings of today’s system. In our opinion, there are also a number of predatory points in this type of trade. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is not necessary to build up an organisation whose purpose is to carry out naturalities, in order to explain this as a tool for creating better financial management. The Progress Party is very sceptical about a solution to horizontal trade where any freedom of the Defence Military Organisation and other agencies to choose for themselves the supplier of properties, buildings and installations and the introduction of any demand for a return on the capital element of the rent will be a solution. The point of progress is of the opinion that the defence must own and dispose of its own capacities in this area as far as possible. The Progress Party considers investment in Defence as part of investment in society and will therefore regard it as a further removal of the basis of public defence. The Party takes note that the national safety authority has relatively little experience with user payment for its services. Furthermore, the Progress Party records that the challenge is not trade in itself, but the identification of which services the National Security Authority is required to pay to perform and how the National Security Authority is to praise its services. The Progress Party also notes that the Ministry of Defence has a proposal for policies and procedures for the payment of national security services by users. In this case, we are also concerned that there is no system in the Ministry of Defence that creates systems that lead to additional resource coverings for the provision of services that are of course within the area of responsibility and authority of the national safety authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e542	I listened with interest to Mr Bendiks Arnesen's contribution. He covered the majority's opinion in an excellent way. That means there's no need for me to add so much to what he said on behalf of the majority. I just want to make a few edge remarks. One is to emphasise the joy of the fact that there is little attention around this debate, in contrast to previous debates on financial management. It shows that when the imbalances in the government economy arose in numbers, the defense quickly seized the situation and put things in place. That's joyous and every reason to underline. For this reason, the 2005 figures have also been balanced. It is true that there has been a lot of pressure on both employees and others in the defence during the conversion, but that does not mean that there should be no control over the management and control of the figures. So it is now, and the majority of the committee is very clear that this was done in a fast and effective way. It is in many ways the main message that should come from this debate. But at the same time, it is important to stress what the rapporteur also said, namely that the Stortinget will continue to focus heavily on financial management, precisely because we know that there are still imbalances. Because it still needs to be taken into account in order to bring about a better balance, it is important that the economy be managed as smoothly as possible, precisely to provide room for the investments and things we want to do. The case rapporteur had a comment about consultants where I need to add a small supplement. I agree that it is good that you have sat down to look at the use of consultants. But you can't get anywhere that you think the less use, the better. It is often the case that they are niche capacities used over a short period of time, and in such contexts it is rational and sensible to use consultants. Therefore, the starting point is not as little use as possible, but a proper use, where managing the money as well as possible must be the guiding principle. So I'm going to avoid falling for the time limit to take up a debate with Bredvold on economics. I understand that he once again wanted to flag the economic line of the Advance Party in terms of defence, and that is in itself okay enough. Also at that point I have a few comments. One is that the economic policy of the Progress Party has never been tested against reality. It's always a paper excersis. The time it has been tested against reality is under the annual budgetary procedure, and the Progress Party has been a budgetary partner in very many budgets. All we can see is that it was not exactly the defence that emerged in the priorities of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e553	It's an important matter we're discussing today, not least for the defence's reputation. Do we have enough resources to do what we actually intend to do, and to take over the new tasks we've seen ourselves do? Perhaps the most important thing is to do more – and better military-strategic things – in the north. In addition, we've come to realize that we're going to the United Nations. We're going to make an important contribution to the world society that way. It is clear that the economy that we have to consult must be organized. Now it's being cleaned up through the review selection. It'll be cleaned up through a police attorney. If it's been a culture, I won't speak about it here, but it's obvious that it needs to be examined, and it needs to be decided here in the Stortinget. The government has to be aware of the fact that we have to go into a new lease here. I found that the matter presented today shows that the government is making that point by point. We're starting at the point of getting on a straight line. We know that we have a triangle relationship between budget and what we can call base functions and operational maybe. These are the things that we haven't solved. But at least it has to be economic governance. There must be control of the budgets we allow here in the house. The funds we grant must not be wasted. The funds must be used for what we have actually thought. It is perhaps the most important message of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e564	It is reassuring to read that the activities of the Defence Agency were carried out within allocated budgets in 2005 under all chapters. More consumption in the defence sector in 2004 was critical. Exceedances were unacceptable. It is very positive that the control of the use of funds now appears to be significantly better. In view of the facts pointed out by the National Audit Office in the context of the revision of the 2003 and 2004 accounts, as well as the exceedances in 2004, which occurred mainly under the budget chapters of the Army and the Defence Logistics Organisation, a number of actions were launched for better financial management and sound management. Some immediate measures were taken quickly and some measures were more long-term. Similarly, some measures had a rapid effect, while others had to work over a period of time before the desired results were achieved. The Communication addressed today informs the Storting that a number of measures have already had a significant positive impact. The improvements are linked, inter alia, to: business and financial management in general, competence, internal control, accounts, wages and salaries, invoice flows, material checks and use of consultants. Overall, improvements have helped to improve the control and exploitation of the funds allocated. This is positive and reassuring information. However, it is important that we keep our focus on and continue to strengthen financial management in the further conversion of defence. Horizontal trade is one of the areas under debate. Horizontal trade is practised in the defence sector to increase the cost awareness of actors and thereby ensure the most rational operation possible. Trade takes place between, inter alia: Defence buildings and other sectors of the defence sector. The Defence Manager has evaluated the practice of the scheme with a view to unlocking the negative aspects of the system and further developing the positive ones. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Government will come back with more information on measures to improve horizontal trade in the context of the presentation of next year's budget. We respond to such reporting. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important that we, on the part of Stortingen, express recognition and bear in mind the great effort that has been made in the defence to correct the increase in consumption, and to prevent this from happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e581	Over time, defence has been in constant focus mainly for two reasons: a demanding transition due to a change in the nature of the threat and a tearing technological and equipment development, and a reorganization that has revealed weaknesses in the organisation both administratively and logistically. The latter is confirmed by the National Audit Office’s observations, which have been both critical and significant. Accordingly, the defence has put in place the necessary measures to improve governance and the more efficient use of available resources. It will be to go too far to go into all the measures that are in progress, but let me here point to someone: improved reporting and management system integration of risk management and balanced target management new Directive for target management competence enhancement measures for horizontal interaction quality assurance measures Special interest has been attached to the introduction of Golf — a computerised system such as: should improve internal and external accounting procedures. However, it has been shown that in the initial phase this system has had a number of entry problems. In fact, some agencies have gone so far as to call for the system to be phased out. However, the government and the defence management have chosen to go further with an improved version of the Gulf, now called LOS – hopefully the new name gives an indication that the right road choices have been made. The Centre Party shall join in the majority submissions made in the course of the Committee's proceedings and shall support the work under way. The Party trusts that the measures taken will provide a sound basis for the necessary improvement of an economic and administrative nature. It is also important, as it is underlined by others who have spoken, that the defence as an institution appears in a way that brings confidence to the Norwegian population and that is in a rational and effective way capable of meeting the challenges we see nationally and internationally. There is further reason to stress the importance of keeping the size informed if the progress outlined in the action to which the notification refers differs from that described in the notification. So maybe a little side run, but it's still important: the government has clearly put the north areas in focus. Recent developments have revealed that we are facing major challenges, especially in the marine sector. It has become clear that the need for control and monitoring of fishing activities in the Barents Sea and in the Svalbard Zone may now be greater than in the past. The area of the sea areas is so large that it requires the use of considerable resources if we as a nation are to discharge our administrative responsibilities satisfactorily. The Marine has now been handed over the first of five modern frigates in all these days. It is important that this vessel be tested in our Arctic waters in order to demonstrate its functionality in an area with some extreme challenges. In addition, the ship will be an important ‘back up’ for our coastguard in the north in the event of pointed situations in our waters. Having a well visible presence in the northern regions is important for our sovereignty. But at the same time, let me stress that it is still the Coast Guard who is to face the control and the oversight function. Marine patrols of the North Sea areas will demonstrate the importance of these areas in the economic context, while it is visible that Norway is taking very seriously its management responsibility for fisheries resources. This is to emphasise the importance of the success of defence in its reorganization and renewal, so that measured resources, some of which are scarcely measured, are optimally exploited. With these comments, the Central Party agrees with the majority of the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e626	As the rapporteur and also other representatives have explained, the communication focuses on the work that has been done and that is still being done to further develop the economic governance of Defence. There have been improvements, and these relate, among other things. for internal control, invoice flow, control of materials, use of consultants and enhanced competence in economic and business management. The attitude of the Defence Committee shows that there is a broad consensus on the measures taken. These measures have had a good effect, as the Riksrevision also stated in Document No. 3:8 for 2004-2005. At the same time, the Government will continue to focus on strengthening economic governance in the further transformation of defence. Therefore, all stages of the organisation focus on the need for close follow-up of allocated budgetary resources and the accuracy of financial management. This is a demanding process and several of the measures, in particular in the area of empowerment, will only give full effect over time. The Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, has developed and implemented a new version of the Defence Manager’s Material Management Directive with effect from 9 March 2006. As mentioned in the Communication, the FLO has started work on its own provisions for material management to replace the current cross-border provisions. Material management means the receipt of material, accounting, storage, maintenance, disposal and cassation. I will of course brief the Storting on the outcome of this review. The work turns out to be more extensive than previously assumed, and the FLO has now informed me that the work will be completed by the end of this year. In the further conversion of Defence, the focus on good financial management will be maintained. In this context, the Defence LOS programme will be an important tool for improvement, alongside the continuation of the follow-up to the activities undertaken following the National Audit Office’s audit of the accounts. Particular attention will be paid to further improvements in risk management and internal control, reduction in the number of authorising and certifying powers and quality assurance of the wage process. Furthermore, strengthening competence in administrative matters, further reduction in travel expenses and a review of investment projects related to the next long-term plan. In addition, as announced in the Soria Moria Declaration, the evaluation of horizontal trade will be completed. The Government will inform about the results of the evaluation and outline measures to improve the presentation of the 2007 budget. With the measures taken to improve financial management, I am of the opinion that a good foundation has been laid for meeting the remaining challenges in this area in an administratively sound manner. The Ministry of Defence will continue the process of good professional exchanges with the National Audit Office in the continuous improvement work. In the further conversion of defence, the Government will focus on monitoring developments in the administrative area. This is an equally important part of our future defence as a developed operational capability. Good operational capability requires good financial management. Therefore, the measures that have already had a significant positive impact will be continuously monitored, evaluated and further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e645	In my opinion, the representatives of the government parties who have been up on the platform have almost glorified the Gulf programme – what is now called the LOS programme. Now it's probably not enough just to change the name to make this go better than what it's done so far. That'll be all. The Council of State had so far taken this into account and considered that this system was now under control. We've heard that from another state council before, and it wasn't under control. I therefore hope that this is more concrete than what we have heard before. It was said by the representative of the Arnesen, who belongs to the Workers' Party and the Government Parties that the Progress Party was against a unified system. We've never been against introducing a unified system, but we've been against introducing a system where there has been no economy that would add to what this would cost, no governance and no analysis of how this would develop further. Can the Council of State now say anything more about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e652	I shall in no way glorify the LOS programme, the former Gulf programme, which has been a long and comprehensive one and in every way a very complex and complex one. What is now done in the ministry – and which I have implemented – is a complete review of whether the organisation will be able to cope with the next phase of the implementation of what is now called LOS. It includes human resources, etc. Furthermore, an external quality assurance of the programme is in the process of being carried out. What is now an assessment is whether the economic part of the programme, which is the first phase, will also contain a supply part, and that the logistic part will then be the next phase of the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e657	My comment is on rentals and buildings in Defense. I've been on the defense committee for five years now – and I've been an officer before, so I have some background on this – and I've been out in Norway a lot. Unfortunately, what I see is that equipment is stored outside in all kinds of weather, while buildings next to it are empty. There may be different types of buildings, but often there are buildings that have very little maintenance costs, which do not have heating costs etc. Among other things, I can mention that up in Porsanger it says e.g. six-wheeled Polaris vehicles outdoors, adjacent to a cold garage. It goes without saying that equipment purchased that is both expensive and perhaps technically complicated is then destroyed, or at least reduced, and it applies maintenance costs to the defense. Does the Council see that this might not be so very clever?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e666	It is quite clear that ‘horizontal trade’, which is actually the name of the problem that the representative, Mr Bredvold, mentioned, has given rise to some very unfortunate results. It looks like everyone who's involved in a good government in the Defense. That is why the Chief of Defense has taken an initiative. I would also like to say that it has been included in the budget for the current year for an evaluation of horizontal trade, how it works and what its consequences are. This evaluation has almost been carried out. It will be assessed and the result will be presented in the context of the budget. However, it is clear that in this area a number of measures will have to be taken to adjust the very unfortunate consequences that have emerged.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e671	The Central Party’s “representative government” to use that expression, mentioned the Soria Moria Declaration and the Northern Territories, and thought it was so good now. I would like to hear the opinion of the House of Representatives on what has happened with regard to the government's investment in the northern regions in relation to what has been said in the Soria Moria Declaration. What's the status?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e678	In the case of the northern regions and the investment that has been made there, it was mainly linked to a significant increase of approx. 130 million. kr in the budget, which meant that we could have more sailing days for the Coast Guard, better surveillance from the Orion planes and better practice within the Army in the northern areas in general. This is a bet that has given results, because we, when we added approx. 130 million. kr extra, has been able to do more in these areas than if we had had a budget like the previous one in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e683	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e686	St.meld. No 10 on Financial Management in Defence is a very important message. In all communities, in private and public organisations, in countries and municipalities, satisfactory financial management may be the most important governance parameter. Monthly economic overviews compared to the corresponding budgets are a normal procedure in the private sector. I must say, unfortunately, that this is far from the case in all municipal and state corporations. The lack of the necessary financial reporting is, in my view, the main reason why the budgets are not kept. If it is reported monthly, the governing authorities may take action along the way. The defence has not had satisfactory financial management for 2003 and 2004. The Court of Auditors has pointed this out in its notes. Both the political and military leadership instructed the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Military Organisation to rectify these economic aberrations. The review of the defence management procedures was completed in the autumn of 2005. A number of actions were launched to address both economic and business governance. These two parameters will together provide an overview of whether the economy and level of activity in the defence were in line with the adopted budget for the current year. Operational management shall be measured against budgetary and resource responsibilities. This is, in the view of the Progress Party, a good measure that should be able to deliver results. As important as the defence keeping its financial budgets, so is the defence to keep its operations in line with the budgeted. Economic follow-up may seem to be a priority, while business management is given less attention. Thus, the Progress Party does not fully share the view of the Right, Labour Party and the SV that significant improvements have been made in 2005 and that there has been no over-consumption this year. The Progress Party believes that this is largely the result of lower activity, especially on the exercise side, and less material purchased than provided for in the 2005 budget. For several years, the Progress Party has been concerned that the Programme Golf has consisted of several projects, and has recorded that the final amount of the logistic solution and the costs associated with it have not yet been clarified. The Progress Party is concerned that the economic and logistical project LOS has to be clearly identified as including economic and organisational aspects. The Progress Party agrees with the Riksrevision that it is very unfortunate that several projects have been granted post-authorisation framework increases. With sound technical and economic planning, framework extensions of projects should have been avoided. The Progress Party shares the Committee's view that the actions undertaken in the field of financial management have provided and will deliver results. Historically, the defense has invested several times — then to abolish the same equipment a few years later. It is enough to mention information in the autumn of 2005 that the defense has decided to park the «Multi-Launch Rocket System» artillery system for approx. NOK 1.5 billion in purchases, and that the defense also destroyed approx. 39 tonnes of new and usable uniforms. Such examples damage the financial credibility of the defence, and it takes time for the critics to be convinced that the economic and business management of the defence is under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e712	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2675]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e728	First, I would like to congratulate those who have put forward the proposal. It is polite and interesting when the opposition makes proposals for what is a good point in the Soria Moria declaration. The meaning of the Soria Moria statement – and one that will be a commission – was, and is, to lay the foundation for a new long-term defence plan. We think that this work should be able to go in parallel with the work on FS 2007, and that it should be done fairly well. There is a mandate given. There will be an invitation to participate. The selection will probably be set down before summer, and it will be done with the job's next fall. One may of course have a debate about whether the selection should have had even longer time, if it should have been a commission with a larger and wider field. I would like to encourage the opposition – and not least the Progress Party – to study the Soria Moria statement once again. There will be another point – for both joy and benefit – where it is said that the Government wants to ‘Create a new Advisory Forum on Security Policy and Social Security’. I think that the longer and wider approach that the opposition and the Advance Party might want of this selection could be there. As we say in all debates: the defence is and has been in a process of conversion – and will be. There is no doubt that the outside environment needs to participate in this, and also to make input when it comes to how the defence will be in the future. Not least this has a district dimension. Therefore, it is not unthinkable that the selection that is being set down will have a broad composition and a mandate, one of which, of course, also assumes that there are others outside the magnificence and government environment that mean meaning the future of the defence. I think we'll just be happy for that. We should also be glad that the selection has a timeframe within a year, so that we do not delay the debate too far, but have some advice around the country and get concrete and good input. Those who have opposed this proposal will certainly do well for this itself, but I see that the Right's representative has interpreted it as there are two different proposals for distribution. I hope that the representative from the Right will find good answers in what I have said, that there is also a proposal in the Soria Moria statement about an even wider selection, which will work even wider and longer term than the one-year selection that is now to be set down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e748	Defence and defence policy are not served by symbolism and political games on the part of Stortinget. But when one reads the setting, there is unfortunately reason to ask questions about whether that is not exactly what is happening in this case. There will be a debate on words, because while the government parties and the Progress Party really agree on the importance of assessing the future challenges of defence in a more political perspective – in addition to the professional-military perspective to be given by the head of defence in the 2007 FS – we disagree on the conclusion here. The Government has already announced through the Soria Moria Declaration that it will ‘reduce a wide-ranging sample to prepare the basis for a new long-term defence plan from 2009’, and that the sample must also look at this in a longer-term perspective, with a time horizon towards 2020-2025. Since last autumn, we knew that this would come. The Progress Party also knew that. Nevertheless, they promote their own proposal. As the Progress Party proposes in the private proposal, the Labour Party also believes that key choices and assessments related to the further development of the defence must be dealt with in a broader way than the purely military-disciplinary assessments that the FS 2007 could give us. Right doesn't agree. They believe – as they write in their comments – that ‘The situation of defence is well established until 2008.’ [[...]] However, the next long-term plan should go much further than 2008. We believe that a combination of recommendations from FS 2007 and from a wide-ranging policy selection could provide government and magnification with a good basis for making the right decisions for a defence for the future. Much has been achieved in modernising the defence. At the same time, defence is facing considerable challenges in the longer term, not least with a view to creating a long-term balance between defence tasks, level of ambition and resource availability. The further development of defence must therefore be assessed against national and international developments. We need to consider what kind of defense the nation needs in relation to, among other things. different security policy scenarios and potential future threat scenarios, including Norway’s international commitments related to the UN, NATO and European and Nordic cooperation. We must further look at the role of the Defence and Military Force in relation to social security. We need to assess the level of ambition of the defence against, among other things. themes such as industrial policy, protection obligations and general principles in relation to the future location of defence. Just on the basis of the fact that, in its private proposal, the Progress Party largely took on the same perspectives and challenges as government parties, the Workers' Party and the SV of the Committee tried to get an overall comitology on this matter. Unfortunately, I note that this was not possible. You can therefore ask yourself what the real purpose of this private proposal of the Progress Party is when they reject our invitation to cooperate on the future defence policy of the nation. Therefore – if only symbolic policies and party markings are to be counted and prioritised – the proposal actually deserves to be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e768	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government opens up a broad and advisory range of defence policy. The government has not yet established such a selection. The Progress Party therefore wishes to focus on the need for an in-depth assessment of Norway’s defence and security policy through a Defence Commission. We want to do that now. Several defence commissions have been appointed in Norway to assess and, where appropriate, propose changes to the Defence Organisation — the first in 1920, then in 1946, in 1974 and 1990. The last one provided the basis for the development of defence by the year 2000. Today, Norway faces new and different security challenges than those we had in 1990. The Progress Party is concerned that there is considerable resources both in and below the sea in the northern regions. Norway has a administrative responsibility here. This has an impact on our need for presence and sovereignty in the northern regions and on our continental shelf. Parts of the northern areas are controversial. It is therefore important to have a comprehensive approach to how our defence, security and foreign policy should be viewed in the context of our new challenges to defence. The defence has been subject to major organisational changes and conceptual new choices in recent years. Reducing its presence in North Norway also reduces the possibility of sovereignty in the same area. Air defence is particularly challenging in relation to new strategies and demands for a change in response patterns from NATO and the UN. Due to the ever-increasing demands of our allies and the new development of new air battle platforms and capacities, it will be necessary to carry out a long-term assessment of the future appearance of air defence. The defence’s constant focus on foreign operations has changed the educational and service pattern of the Defence. This, together with reduced appropriations, has forced strong cuts in both the presence and activity in general in defence. The Progress Party believes that the defence now needs a long-term strategy for how to defend the future, including: the size of the organisation and the amount of resources that must be allocated to achieve this. The concept of social security has emerged strongly in recent times. The role of defence in the social security picture is significant and the future tasks in terms of the size and location of the defence organisation and the provision of services need to be clarified. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is now time to set up a new and wide-ranging defence commission to look at the role of defence in future Norway, taking into account the factors we know today, and in view of tomorrow’s challenges. In this context, the Progress Party would point out that, in our view, a so-called wide-ranging and advisory choice of defence policy cannot be compared to a defence commission. A Defence Commission shall see Norwegian security and defence policy in an enlarged picture and over a long period of time in terms of policy and technology. Therefore, the Defence Commission is given a specific mission which provides a basis for the work of future governments and large-scale enterprises. A Defence Commission could work more freely than a Defence Policy Selection. The Defence Commissions have traditionally had and should continue to have an independent role in relation to day-to-day policy situations. The Commission has to look at all of this in the perspective of long-term conditions that affect the nation in general. The point of a defence commission is historically that a stand-alone assessment of the situation and developments of the nation in the field of defence and security policy will be obtained. Assessments and conclusions from the Defence Commission should guide future magnification and governments. The Progress Party therefore believes that the Storting must now set up a defence commission. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e789	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e792	I would like to maintain one important starting point, and that is that we have a decision for this long-term programming period. I think we need to be able to say that we know enough about the challenges we face up to 2008 in order to be able to carry this out with force. I think we should sometimes remind ourselves of this, because after participating in some defence policy debates over the last year, I have the impression that we often overestimate the uncertainty. I think in this society we have more of an implementation problem than an investigation problem. That is why it is important now to ensure that we implement what we have adopted. Otherwise the imbalance is going to get bigger. As for the next period, which these proposals are about, of course, I agree that there are many things that need to be reviewed and systematised and that a decision needs to be made. The question is just how we reach that decision in the most rational way. But also here I want to say that I think we know more than what we to daily are willing to admit. I think that here, too, we may most probably have a decision-making and an implementation problem, namely to take the consequences of the things we know. One of the things we know is that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the security policy aspect, and the uncertainty we have to take into account. I don't think you're getting any closer to solving an uncertainty problem by figuring out more. I think we have to take inwards that there's a lot of uncertainty, and that's what has to be at the bottom. When it comes to how we're going to prepare the next programming period, I don't have a strong idea of what method you're using. And based on what I've seen of the papers here, I'm also not able to see what the concrete differences between the Commission's and the Government's investigation model really are. I am not in doubt that the arrangement of the Progress Party is the most comprehensive, but what the Government's investigation model is really about is difficult to get a picture of until the mandate is precisely designed. We have only been given an indication of what the mandate is about, but we do not know exactly how it will be implemented. What I honestly have to admit is my concern now is that we can get a little fuzzy process by 2008, simply because one is going to go two different races: the Chief of Defense's professional race is going to go parallel to this investigation that is to be conducted in a relatively short time. It may be going very well – there is no doubt about it – although I, when I hear the rapporteur's suggestion that it should almost be a sample to travel around to get a more district policy perspective on this, become more concerned. But it can go well. We also have to remind ourselves that this is something that will be carried out in a very short time, and if an independent assessment of such a sample is to be carried out, they do not have much time at their disposal. What I feel absolutely certain that we must have a lot of time at our disposal is the handling of the proposal from the Government. So what's most important of all, is that the government has enough time to make its independent assessment of the material they get, and that the Storting will then have enough time to create what might and hopefully will be a broad defence policy decision for the next period. It would be totally unacceptable if the Storting had only a few months or a few weeks at its disposal. With this, I also want to signal that the reconciliation to be created cannot be created in the sample that is going to go parallel to the defense chief's investigation, no, it has to come at the end of the process, when we have all the cards on the table. But I absolutely believe that the sample could make an important contribution to the process that is. Anyway, it's a little funny that we're going to have two parallel races, a professional and a popular one. Since the Minister of Defence will have the floor afterwards, I would like to answer the following questions: When this was an idea that was caught up in Soria Moria, and we know how little time we really have until 2008, how every day has it been that the government – after eight months – has not managed to carry out in the form of mandate what was actually thought of Soria Moria? It stands for me as an expression that it may not be all thought that has been sufficiently clear in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e812	The Christian People's Party agrees that there is a need for a long-term strategy for how defence should look in the future. Proposalers are entitled to have Norway’s security policy challenges different today from those of 1990. In this context, it may be interesting to refer to a document that came a year ago: ‘Strength and relevance — strategic concept of defence’. ‘Strengthening and relevance’ indicates the security and defence policy framework for the defence doctrines and the operational activities of the Defence. The document explains the Ministry of Defence's analysis, but it is based on political clarifications and decisions in Stortinget. It thus forms the political basis for the defence activities. We have here an overall presentation of the security policy basis for the operational activities of the defence. The proposalers are right that Norway is facing new and different security policy challenges than those we had in 1990. It is precisely in the light of the new threat that since 2001, the defence has undergone such a massive and challenging transformation. The conversion of the defence is anchored in a thorough security policy analysis, which is thus fully explained in a number of documents. The proposers want the Government to establish a wide-ranging defence commission, which will propose guidelines for the defence up to 2020. In its opinion, the Council of State responds to the Committee by referring to the work on the long-term defence plans. The Chief of Defense has started Defence Study 07. Despite the fact that the authors of the proposal call the Defence Study "a mind-play by the head of defense," I expect the Stortinget to agree with the Christian People's Party that the Defence Study should be regarded as an important professional-military advice for the government's work on the next long-term plan. In addition, the Government appoints a Defence Policy Advisory Forum this spring to help prepare the basis for the next long-term plan. In this way, the Government wants to ensure the widest possible anchoring of the further modernisation of the Defence. I am uncertain whether I would agree with the representatives of the government parties in their conclusion in the position that the Council of State responses respect the intentions of the proposers. The right-wing representative's remark that it's hard to compare these two options, has enough, in my opinion, much to do. However, the Christian People's Party supports the reduction of the new range of defence policy and will, of course, participate there. In 1999, the Bondevik I Government set up a range of defence policy mandated to assess the structure and activities of the defence and propose changes to it. With about the same deadline, the defense chief worked with the Defense Study 2000, which gave professional military recommendations on the future of the defence. A similar process is now under way, and we are excited about the results of both the Defence Commissioner's work and the Defence Policy Committee's work. The Christian People's Party, as mentioned, will participate in the sample. However, we would like to take this opportunity to make some important clarifications about the mandate and function of the sample. As far as we are aware, the specific mandate for the work of the committee has not been completed. However, we have been informed that the sample will assess and discuss a number of important defence policy issues. The committee shall also make proposals for priorities in different fields, in particular the level of ambition of the defence and the duty of protection. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the mandate of the Committee should focus on a broad security perspective, a social security perspective. The complexity of today's societies and the threat picture is so significant that both military and civil resources must be used together to protect the population and the values of society. It is important that the sample works on the basis of an overall defence concept. The work of the committee shall be in parallel with the Defence Study 07, not on this basis. This shall be formally separate processes, resulting in independent and independent input to the Government. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the parallel investigations do not delay or interfere with each other. At the same time, a certain exchange of information between the two processes will be important. The Christian People's Party also argues that the range of defence policy does not bind the subsequent political process. Finally, the proposers also have an important role to play in writing that the budgets adopted by the Stortinget must reflect the organisation and tasks given to them. A balance is crucial between the level of budget and the level of ambition adopted by the Storting for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e835	I chose not to take the word in the previous case except if I dared to find that there had not been any control there, a lot of theoretical samples could have been made. The previous case is mostly about that if you want to know what you choose, if you choose not, there must be control. The previous case was very important as a starting point for the debate on this matter. The fact that you have done the grips you have done is a reason to look very positive – in the previous case. On this issue, the left will support the majority. We see that we are facing a rather complex situation. The Defence Manager shall do his or her work; the Government will have a selection — which has not yet been set up and has not been given a mandate. They have to work at the same time as a long-term plan. Someone says it's demanding. Yes, it's demanding. But at the same time, I think Norway is facing some demanding balances – that's the truth. The balances around us are demanding, among other things. because this government's ambition, which is well associated with the Bondevik II government's launch of a Northern Region thinking, is that we need to take the north very seriously – in terms of defence policy, and in terms of the overall civil sector of society, which will go on research, civil presence, etc. This has been pointed out by several representatives. I would like to stress that this is very important. We simply cannot ignore the geopolitical significance of where we are on the globe and that we are close to one of this globe's three major resource nations in terms of oil and gas. That's the fact that it's completely impossible to ignore. It's demanding. It is also demanding in the overall security policy situation we have internationally, with many challenges for Norway, among others. because we so far – and I think it is a right line – are going to take our share of the burden of helping to build peace and civilization where we are being challenged to do so. At the same time, it is demanding that this will have consequences for the structure of defence and for how the defence builds up to meet the situation. In this context, I would strongly warn against making a debate on Norwegian defence a kind of regional policy debate. Maybe we could do that a few years ago when we had a different kind of defense. But now we should not have that debate; now we should have the debate on what kind of capacities we should have and how they should deliver. I would like to emphasise that I am a little fascinated when the head of defense thinks very highly about the ineffectiveness of the duty of protection. I ask the following political questions: how in the world can anyone with a professional military background think that they want a broad anchoring in the Norwegian people, if the people's connection to the Defence gets narrower and narrower? How would anyone with a reasonable imagination sitting in this great hall believe that the Stortinge will continue to grant SEK 28–29–30 billion a year if that anchoring is narrowed? I noticed with great interest the reflection of Grandhagen, the head of the Army's forces, had in terms of what is going on in order for us at all to get soldiers and officers as we need in our situation. It was just a reasoning that meant that we had to turn around widely in the people to get a recruit who is holding. On the left hand side, we can't stand to see that we're going to get away from a duty-free basis for the Norwegian defence. We have to endure a debate on what that means. But we can't go away from it. I have said earlier from this chair, and I would like to repeat it with great pressure: we cannot end up recruiting the soldiers at a bar in Marseille. This is an unusually poor starting point for a defence in Norway. It won't take very long either. I noticed Grandhagen's reflections here in an article in the evening post in the middle of May that I thought was reflective, and that underscores very important matters. I think that is exactly what the committee's chairman pointed out that what we are facing is demanding. I also think it's right, as he pointed out, that then some processes have to go parallel. There must be considerable transparency on the part of the Government to give the Storting time and calm to deal with what becomes the final product, the new long-term plan, as underlined by the Chairman of the Committee. Then we have to live with three parallel laps: the round of the head of defense – which he must of course do according to his mandate and his obligations – the job that the Government puts up with the Advisory Forum and where we all commit ourselves to participate, and the reflections that the chairman of the Committee made on how the Stortinget should seriously come in to build something that can last and last. As I said, on the left hand side, there are two important reflections: the one concerning the importance of the north, and the other important point, the duty of protection. I think you can very quickly theorize yourself away from this. You can even think so much theoretically that you lose the point on the road. For me, it is at least a crucial point to stress that with a defence that does not have the widest possible connection with the people, we will ultimately be able in a country like ours not to defend the level of appropriations I think we need to have in Norway to have a serious defence in our security policy situation. These are the signals I want to send for further work on the sample that has been reduced, and that I have found that the Council of State is working actively with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e858	The Soria Moria Declaration states that a wide-ranging range of defence policy should be set up, with broad representation. I want to repeat what was said by the rapporteur that this sample should be reduced before the summer, i.e. at least within 14 days. The mandate will be published when the sample is established in the Council of State. This work shall be carried out in parallel with the Defence Study 07 of the Chief of Defense. The Government therefore considers that the intention of the proposal, the establishment of a Defence Commission, is respected through the appointment of this selection and through the work to be done by the selection. This selection will be given a broad mandate. It will focus on key issues, some of which have been addressed here — the north is clearly central, security policy challenges ahead and the need for protection. It is clear that the Government is committed to the duty of protection, but we must at the same time look at how this is to be handled in the future. This sample will be able to look at several questions in a more comprehensive perspective. At the same time, I fully agree with those who say that defence policy should not be allowed to become a district policy. But it's now so that the defense is located in many places in the country, and it means incredibly much to large parts of the country. The presence should not be overlooked in that context either – we are, in fact, dependent on it to obtain a legitimacy for the defence throughout the country. This selection shall be made on a free and independent basis. The input from the sample will come to the Government, which, of course – together with the input from the Defence Study – will present a case to the Stortinget. If we had appointed a commission, it wouldn't give any better time for this sample. In any case, we had to keep progress to the next major period, because – as the committee leader pointed out – this is a work to be done after the implementation of the long-term plan. What the government hopes and hopes for in the process of reducing this sample is that we will create a bigger defence debate – a debate that can take place in different places in the country. We think it's important. We think it is important that all parts are involved in a broad and complex debate. I'm going to make sure that the Stortinge gets time, as it's also very stressed, for the important work that the Stortinge is going to do in finally adopting a new long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e874	I've heard a lot of strange – I almost have to use that expression – and strange explanations as to why we should not set up a defence commission, but a defence committee. When the Progress Party proposed to establish a defence commission, it was because it should have a longer-term perspective, work for longer periods and go deeper into matter. We've had several commissions, especially since last world war, who have been working with the long-term perspective. Of course, there is nothing wrong with reducing a sample that works with a shorter perspective. The strangest argument I think is coming – and it is also written in the setting – from the Right. It's amazing how they manage to get away from a defense commission with such a strange argument. This is announced in the Soria Moria Declaration, it is right that we should have a defence committee. But our intention was that this must now get started, and we put forward this proposal to kick – to use that expression – the government a little bit on the team. Then it started, and then it really started – not many days went by before there was a suggestion about who would sit in this sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e887	As it was said, last autumn, the Soria Moria Declaration wrote that a broad range of defence policy was to be established. It is now done, and this sample will be created before summer. The Government is absolutely of the opinion that the intention of the proposal under consideration here now, to set up a Defence Commission, is preserved through this selection. A defence commission would not be able to spend more time than the sample. In addition to the sample, a defence study is conducted in parallel. It should provide both the Government and the Stortinget with a very good basis for laying down a new long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e894	I should have almost answered the previous line from the representative, Width, since it obviously went to me and not to the Council of State. But since he was unable to justify his point of view, I shall let him escape in this round. My question to the Council of State, however, is this: Why has the Government now waited eight months to reduce this sample? If you had acted immediately and explained to people what you really meant on Soria Moria, the sample would have had much longer time to make the assessments that a commission had to make. Are we not now in the process of falling between two chairs by giving the sample a very short time to present its work, which must mean that it must compromise on getting a proper professional background before it begins to make its political judgements? I would have been a lot more open to the idea of both selection and commission, if we had started in time. But taking into account that the Storting must have enough time, I now feel that the various actors are going to go a little on their feet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e901	When this sample is now reduced before the summer, it will have a year to work on – from immediately after it is reduced to the autumn of next year – as a basis. In fact, this is longer than the other similar mandated selections have had. Then you can always say that you should have done things before, but I think this is a proper time frame. I also think it is important that this goes in parallel with the Defence Study, because then you can get a broader basis for what the Government will ultimately provide to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e906	A few days ago, Norway was given the first of five frigates ordered. Some of us were on the entrance from Horten to Oslo and got a good and useful tour and orientation. At the same time this day we heard a representative from the government parties, namely from SV, saying that Norway does not have the opportunity to have all five frigates. It was too expensive. Is this what the Government has discussed, or will be discussed in the so-called Soria Moria-determined range of defence policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e913	I thought it was a big day when the first frigate came to Norway and to Oslo. The government is concerned that the frigates will be very important for the Defence, and for Norway, in order to monitor large sea areas in terms of sovereignty. We need five frigates. That's what's part of the structure that we've laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e918	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e921	Over the course of a decade, the defense has got a completely different content from the defence we had. The army has been reduced from 16,500 people to less than 10,000. Much of the Coastal Defense – yes, everything – has disappeared. Our planes are concentrated to fewer places, and regiments, district commands and district commands are reduced. Home protection is reduced from 83,000 men to 50,000, and Home protection is concentrated to far fewer places than before. In the opinion of the Advancement Party, much of the local knowledge is gone, and the excellence of Home Affairs has therefore been reduced. The number of boys who serve the duty of protection is down to approx. 30 pst. In addition, with the new government it seems to be more acceptable to be military nectars, and from a fresh judgment it seems that you are not being punished either. I could have framed a number of examples of changes like this. that the defense has almost parked the IMLR system – purchased for billions. Leopard vehicles are replaced by Mercedes-Benz Geländewagen etc. During this period we have also experienced Iraq, Afghanistan and not least 11 September. That is why, in the view of the Progress Party, we need a new defence commission. Otherwise, I become somewhat uncertain about the Minister of Defence's view of why we have a defence. Is it to defend, or is it a district policy tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e932	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e935	It is good to see that there is a wide variety of selections – there have been different debates on the Commission, etc. Nevertheless, I thought it was at the bottom that this selection should be pointing the way forward. Then you should -- maybe not least -- be on something called a process. We all know that it has been a part of pain, of change, of defense, both internally among those added and out in the territory where the defense has had its bases and support functions. I would like to remind the representative Bredvold that in the previous period, the Maritime Defense actually lay at Kai, a unique situation in Norway's history. The defense of the sea was to the dock! Why is that? Well, because one hadn't arranged the economy so that the marine defense could be where they were going, simply at sea. I'd like to remind Bredvold of that. We might get into this situation, too, with the new investments that are made. I'm not saying we're doing it, but that's why it's important that we keep this in order, and not least take those of us who should be willing to say their opinion on how future defenses should be. I experience it so that there is reasonably good and great agreement about this here today. The representative Petersen says we know enough. Yes, maybe we do, but let's bring someone outside of this environment here too – outside of magnification and government. It wouldn't have to do anything. They probably have something to contribute, not least they have something to contribute to this process, so that we get the necessary tranquility in the Defense to take the good decisions we depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e944	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2675]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e960	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e969	It is a cross-political objective that petroleum activities are to lead the way in health, the environment and safety. A high level of HMS is preventive and therefore important both for industry and for society. In order to achieve the goal of leading the Norwegian oil industry at HMS, continuous improvement of the HMS level is necessary. In this context, it is not least that the petroleum industry rapidly operationalises new knowledge of improved working methods. It is also important to facilitate transparency and honesty, and to meet those who warn of injuries, deviations, near-accidents and accidents in an appropriate manner. Employees in the petroleum industry have told the media about several cases of under-reporting of injuries and adverse events. Under-reporting should occur because this is appropriate for the reputation of the company and because employees fear the consequences of reporting non-conformities. In St. Report. No 12 for 2005-2006 it is concluded that: ‘reasons for assuming that the registration of injuries on the base gives a relatively good picture of the real extent of damage’. In the Christian People's Party, we are uncertain whether the authorities capture all the damage and deviations that occur in the petroleum industry. We believe that there is a need for an authority control that is more thorough than current practice suggests. In our view, the check should also include anonymous interviews with subordinate workers, and we ask in the setting that the department should facilitate this. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that alerts are given better legal protection and that labour law sanctions against alerts are considered invalid unless it can be proved that the response is not justified by the warning. We have put forward proposals in the vote in line with this. I note that the government has largely followed this up in the odelstingsproposition about the warning that was delivered to Stortinget last Friday, and I am of course pleased about that. A prerequisite for a high HMS level is thorough training of employees. An overall committee specifies in the setting that all training in HMS must take into account that the language understanding and literacy skills of employees may vary. It is therefore important that oil companies adapt training in the individual case. The overall accident risk on the base has not been reduced in recent years. There is a need to reverse this trend. There is also a need to increase efforts to reduce the number of work-related cases of disease. In that opinion, the Committee of the Regions therefore requests the Government to carry out more in-depth investigations in a timely manner, which can explain the reason why the work-related mortality rate among current and former employees on the base is higher than in the other labour force in Norway. We also assume that the authorities will pay attention to the HMS challenges related to the removal of installations on the base and to the dismantling of land. Sufficient time for recovery and rest for employees at all levels, including managers, is essential for the prevention of injuries, accidents and accidents. The general rule, therefore, is that all employees of the petroleum industry should sleep undisturbed and alone. Night work should also be kept to a minimum. A majority of the government parties and the Christian People's Party request frequent checks in order to prevent breaches of working time legislation. The use of overtime and extended residence periods must be assessed in relation to the extent and possible consequences of increased risk of malpractice and injury. This should be allowed, in the view of the majority, only when it is safe to do so. Night work has documented adverse effects on safety and must be limited to tasks and functions necessary to maintain sound operations. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that the general safety requirements of occupational safety legislation also apply in the petroleum industry. The average age of employees in the oil industry is increasing. This must be seen as an expression of the well-being of many in the profession. However, there is no doubt that the industry has challenges related to exclusion and work-related illness. Several measures are in place to acquire more knowledge of work-related disease and damage to current and former employees in the petroleum sector. It is important that the knowledge generated by the measures taken is rapidly published so that experience can be taken into account in the industry’s preventive HMS strategy. In the nomination, the Committee points out that there is a particular need for increased knowledge of the effects of chemical exposure and calls for research to be prioritised in this respect. We also ask that the reasons why knowledge of the risks of adverse chemical exposure known in the 1980s, which do not appear to have been taken into account in the HMS context until a relatively long period of time, is sought through research. This is not least important for those oil workers who are currently struggling with major health problems as a consequence of chemical exposure in previous years. The Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the Left want, in a slightly different sense, to explore the possibility of providing reasonable compensation to the oil workers who have been injured as a result of chemical exposure. However, the parties to the government oppose this proposal. They also oppose a proposal for the development of a long-term follow-up system for vulnerable workers. I think it is a pity that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party do not want to stand up for former oil workers who have had their health damaged because they have done the work they were put into on the oil platforms. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is incomprehensible that there is not even a comment on how to draw up procedures and systems to ensure that the individual NAV offices meet users with special needs in a good way. Although there is still a need for increased HMS efforts in the oil industry, several positive things happen. In particular, I would like to highlight the positiveness of the extension of the ‘Risk Level on Norwegian Socket’ project to the land facilities under the jurisdiction of the Petroleum Authority. It is also good to work to develop better parameters for comparing the level of HMS on the Norwegian and other countries’ sockets. The HMS work in the petroleum industry is further developed to a large extent in cooperation between the Petroleum Authority and the social partners. This form of work contributes greatly to consensus on safety levels and measures. I would encourage continued continuous work to reduce the number of health and work-related diseases among employees in the oil industry. Accidents in the oil industry can cause dramatic damage — both to individuals and to society. Therefore, international cooperation is very important to raise the HMS standard on both Norwegian and other countries’ sockets. In particular, there is a need to cooperate with Russia in order to ensure a proper response to the HMS challenges of oil extraction in the particularly vulnerable northern regions. The reality of contractors’ employees and employees of subcontractors is very different from the day-to-day experience of operators. It is important that the industry's HMS work reflects this. It has been decided to further develop and intensify the supervision and advice of the contractors in the petroleum industry. In the opinion of the Committee, it is a good thing that this should be given priority. In the period 1996 to 2004, more than 271 major hydrocarbon leaks have been recorded on the Norwegian base. Four to five of the leakages were of the same size as the one that started the Piper Alpha accident. Such leakages have the potential to cause major accidents. In its recommendation, the Committee therefore strongly underlines the need for measures to reduce the risk of accidents. The same applies to seabed sinking. It must be limited as much as possible. We need good cooperation and sharing of responsibility between the defence and the police if a crisis situation arises as a result of a terrorist act against a Norwegian oil plant. It is therefore also important that work continues to increase the preparedness for terrorism on a Norwegian base and in the country-based part of the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1019	Would the representative Woie Duesund like to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1022	Yeah, I didn't calculate the time right. I refer to the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1027	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has then taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1030	The petroleum sector is a special industry from the HMS perspective. The potential for major accidents with enormous consequences for people and the environment is absolutely present. The nature and organisation of work also poses special challenges in the field of the working environment. The activities are therefore surrounded by a comprehensive regulatory and supervisory framework to ensure that we have a high HMS standard. In the Soria Moria Declaration of the Government Parties, we aim to ensure that the Norwegian petroleum sector is “world-leading” on health, the environment and safety. The high HMS standard shall be ensured through a strict code of conduct, active supervision by the authorities and not least good cooperation between the parties, where workers, companies and authorities work together to find good solutions to the challenges that exist. The first priority of all HMS work must be to eliminate risks where possible through changes in the organisation of activities and strict technical requirements for devices and equipment. In addition, it is important that employees receive good and relevant safety training. The message does not propose any legislative changes. The measures referred to shall be presumed to be fulfilled within the established forums of cooperation between the Parties. There is broad political agreement on objectives and instruments in the HMS work. This reflects the Committee's position. In some individual cases, however, there is political disagreement. The majority are restrictive to overtime, night work and extended residence. The working time arrangements practised on the base today are special. Twelve hours of work for fourteen days of residence is a challenge from a health, environmental and safety perspective. Companies have a long experience of managing safety in this shift system, and the parties strongly agree that this is an appropriate shift system. With this organisation of working time, overtime and extended residence shall be allowed only when it can be demonstrated that it is safe. Furthermore, it is clearly demonstrated that night work has a negative impact on safety. We therefore believe that this should be limited to tasks and functions that are necessary to maintain sound operations. For this reason, the majority will oppose the proposal of the Progress Party that the rules on night work of the Working Environment Act be applied to the socket. Work of a leading nature and the like referred to in Sections 10 to 12 of the Working Environment Act is not covered by the working time regulations. Studies show that 22 pst. overtime use in this group has been increased by more than 16 hours during a day on the base. Many people say that they do not feel sufficiently rested when they are at work. This is serious in relation to the tasks of personnel in critical situations, where high standards of judgement and response are required. The majority of the Committee refers to Innst. O. No 18 for 2005-2006, which deals with changes to the Working Environment Act, including derogations from the working time arrangements for those with a particularly independent position. This specifies the limits to be applied in defining who is covered by the exemption. It is a unanimous committee which makes it clear that the general rule is that employees in the petroleum industry should sleep undisturbed and alone. Problems with overtime, night work and co-sleeping usually occur in the event of a breakdown and other high-activity periods on the devices. This means that contractors and employees of subcontractors are exposed to these problems to a large extent. This is the background for a unanimous committee to point out that the reality of these groups is different from that of operators and that it is important to take this into account in health, environmental and safety work. The majority expect operators to produce impact assessments for all stages of the value chain in initiating change processes and reorganisations, and further expect the indicators and methods of the RNNS project to reflect the different realities of operators’ employees, contractors’ and subcontractors’ employees. Many have been damaged by chemical exposure in petroleum activities. In the period 1966 to c. In 1980, there was a lack of knowledge of the risks of chemical use and exposure. This has since been improved, and the risk of health damage is significantly lower today. However, damage has occurred. The majority assume that those who have suffered occupational damage in the petroleum industry are caught by occupational indemnity insurance and social security rights, as well as by the health care system. In the autumn of 2005, the Ministry took the initiative of a group of parties entrusted with the task of providing an overview of past and current exposure and health risks as follows. The group should also outline the need for follow-up and knowledge and research needs. The majority point to the need to follow up this group’s recommendations. The opposition parties promote two different proposals for economic benefits to oil workers who have been harmed by chemical exposure. The party of progress will provide compensation, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will have an assessment of cheapness compensation for these. The problem is delicate. We have those who have suffered damage as a result of chemical exposure in the petroleum sector, but we also have many who have been exposed to similar exposure with the resulting damage in land-based activities. In the Workers' Party, we are of the opinion that we cannot make special arrangements that distinguish between employees in the petroleum sector and other workers who have the same damage. We assume that the consequences of chemical exposure will be further investigated and that new knowledge will be applied in the general schemes for occupational injury. Where there are cases not captured by the existing schemes, specific solutions need to be considered for them. Divers are another group of workers who have been exposed to a high risk in the petroleum activity on Norwegian base. At present, the working situation for this group appears to be sound. There has been a positive trend in accidents since the 1990s, and the Committee wants to strengthen these developments. Improved provision of education will improve the working situation of divers and not least their ability to pursue a career as an active diver. The majority of the Committee therefore assumes that work in progress is continuing on a good training offer for saturation divers at the Bergen High School. Here, Stortinget has granted money for the purchase of equipment in cooperation with Hydro and Statoil. The involvement of companies, which is now managed by the Norwegian Underwater Intervention, is an important contribution to getting the training offer in place. The minority suggests in the nomination that a long-term follow-up system for vulnerable workers should be established. As far as divers are concerned, the notification indicates that the Ministry has already asked the Petroleum Authority to consider a recommendation from a party-group to establish a system for better long-term follow-up of the individual diver. The notification also shows that the authorities will examine the possibilities for improved coordination between the different occupational health services and those established by whom a worker is examined and diagnosed. The Christian People's Party also asks the Government to make proposals for better protection of alerts. In our remarks we refer to the announced proposition from the Government, as among others. takes up enhanced alert protection. This proposition was made on Friday last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1066	The Storing Communication provides a good description of the reality of the health, environmental and safety situation of the petroleum industry. The Communication also points to several key challenges and related proposals for action, which the Progress Party largely supports. However, I would like to comment on some of the points that the representative from the Workers' Party before I came up with. The petroleum sector is a 24-hour continuous activity that requires presence and follow-up 24 hours a day. Therefore, the Progress Party is opposed to the signals that lead to increased discrimination between offshore industry and land-based industry in terms of working conditions and especially in terms of night work. It is absolutely essential that working time regulations be predictable. Any changes in the working time arrangements must be made through changes in laws, regulations and administrative provisions and not by tightening supervisory practices. The Party believes that the implementation of the signals given in the communication regarding the regulation of working time may have the following consequences: Further restrictions on night work will lead to production losses with significant economic losses for society and companies. Night work must, in our opinion, be allowed to restore production. A continuation of work in the daytime will be a safety challenge, as the Progress Party sees it, and that is why it is also part of the main reason why we are promoting the proposal we are making. Any restrictions on the use of overtime and night work and extended shifts must be based on experience and relevant research. I have therefore noted the industry's view that there is no research or experience at present that calls for more stringent requirements in this area. In the Communication, the Government calls for Norwegian Socket to be world leader in the case of HMS. I do not disagree with such a goal, but I note that a measuring tool has not yet been developed that can measure the HMS level on Norwegian pedestals compared to other pedestals. I therefore expect the Government to contribute to the development of necessary and comparable measurement tools that allow the comparison of HMS developments on the different countries’ sockets. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that it must be a clear objective to ensure more consistent and cost-effective regulatory practices, in line with the intention of functional regulation. I therefore have a certain expectation that the Petroleum Authority, in cooperation with the industry, will review its regulatory information and follow-up procedures. Furthermore, the progress party is skeptical of the temporary regulation in the case of land-based facilities, where the network companies are responsible for the network services. We have to remember that the entire supply network is connected. Therefore, there is a certain danger that the temporary regulation could lead to double regulation and difficult interfaces between two legislations. Dealing with two different types of supervision on the electricity side could also create unnecessary red tape and costs. Therefore, I expect the Government to follow up quickly and efficiently the opinion of a unanimous committee, namely that the supply network for electricity from the gas power plants and out to the users is still the responsibility of the DSB. I also expect the government to follow up, so that there is a clear interface between inspections. The rapporteur was concerned about it in his main post: some oil workers have been damaged over the years as a result of chemical exposure. Many of these have had their lives ruined and, at my discretion, have experienced an unworthy everyday situation. I therefore find it sad that the government parties could not have actively and visibly supported the proposal of the Progress Party to ask the Government to investigate the need for a separate compensation scheme for oil workers who have been injured as a result of chemical exposure. I record correctly that the government parties in the suspension state that, in cases not covered by existing occupational injury and social security schemes, ‘special solutions’ must be considered. It would be interesting to know what the government parties put in the term ‘special solutions’. Taking into account the attitude of the government parties last week, when the Stortinge dealt with the proposals of the Advance Party when it came to all those who had been infected by hepatitis C, there is little chance that this group I am talking about now will get some sort of compensation scheme. I would also like to point out that in the case of major accidents, I believe that the entire committee and everyone in this Chamber agree that a high level of HMS on Norwegian pedestals should be available to eliminate the risk of accidents. It could also have been appropriate to look at how to investigate any accidents or precursors of accidents. The Advance Party believes that it would have been more appropriate, rather than the Petroleum Control Authority investigating the existence of an independent investigation commission, as is known from the transport sector. Finally, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would like to raise a point of order. 1 in the vote, and on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to address the proposals No. 2 and 3 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1099	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1102	The petroleum sector is a significant industry in Norway, with wide-ranging ring-effects in many areas. Through approx. Forty years of experience in exploration, drilling and operation, we have developed a significant expertise in both the use of new technology and not least in how a significant oil business can operate on the basis of strict health, environmental and safety requirements. It is a common political objective that petroleum activities should be world-leading in health, environment and safety. It's a reasonable ambition given that we're talking about a business where it can have very big and serious consequences, for people and the environment, very serious and dramatic consequences if it goes really wrong first. Most people probably remember with horror the tragic Alexander Kielland accident. It is gratifying to note that the level of personal injury reported to the Petroleum Control Agency in the period 2001–2005 has declined considerably, from 736 in 2001 to 377 in 2005. The extent of serious injuries has also been reduced in the same period, from 64 to 44. However, during 2005 much indicates that this positive trend has reversed. This shows the importance of keeping continuous and strong attention to this. In the preparation of this matter, the Labour and Social Committee was delighted to visit the Oil Directorate, the Petroleum Authority and the Sleipner A platform. We got here a good review of how industry and government are working to meet health, environment and safety requirements. A theme that has been central to the debate is the scope of night work. What rules shall apply to this, and what limitations shall there be? Any constraint must have a starting point. Today, no specific legal or regulatory rules set limits on what is allowed for night work on the base. Supervisory authorities set limits based on guidance text, letters and decisions on a case-by-case basis. At our discretion, this opens up the possibility of randomness and a lack of predictability of what is lawful night work in individual cases. Therefore, the right considers that any changes to night work provisions must be made through amendments to laws, regulations and administrative provisions and not by tightening supervisory practices. In order to address the need for sound operation, predictability, production safety and the need for non-discrimination, we believe that it is appropriate to examine whether the provisions of the Working Environment Act on night work can be applied to the base. I have noticed with interest that the majority of the committee writes in its comments that ‘suggests that proposals for a common working time regulation for terrestrial and capped petroleum activities may be made in the future’. Another theme that we were also able to study more closely during our journey to the Sleipner A platform was that which is related to co-sleeping. Here we saw how cabins designed for two or four were converted into small bedrooms for the individual. A unanimous committee is concerned with this problem and underlines the importance of ensuring sufficient time for the individual to recover and rest. In particular, this is important for the prevention of injuries, accidents and accidents. This case shows that there is very broad political consensus in this area. However, in a few areas, there is a majority and a minority that crystallise in relation to the proposals put forward in the vote. I refer to the proposals on which the Right is involved, namely the proposals No. 1 and No 4, which is also justified by the proposers on our behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1124	In Document No: 8:90 in 1999-2000, I and some other Swedish wholesalers took the initiative to get a health, environmental and safety message for the petroleum sector, and that is the second message we are dealing with today. There are high ambitions for the safety level in the petroleum sector in Norway, and that is good. It is good because it results in fewer damage and accidents, and it is good because high levels of health, environment and safety lead to technology development and development elsewhere in the industry, of which industry is very useful, both because it may be in the forefront, and because it gets estimates of other industries benefiting from technology developments resulting from high demands on the industry. But it's also right to have a very ambitious target for the safety level of the socket, because this is an industry where the risk has to be minimal, because the danger is so infinite if it goes wrong. That is why it is also right to have a desire to be world leaders in this area, and also to have a zero philosophy of accidents in principle. Several of the previous speakers have noted that there may be different realities experienced by different employees in the petroleum sector. I think that's one of the most important things that the Committee has addressed this time. How it evolves on average with e.g. combination, can show that the problem of co-sleeping – that you cannot sleep at night because the roommate snores, which goes beyond safety – can be less for the majority, but for some groups the problem may actually be increasing. This is why it is important to develop measurement tools and to look at the reality of the different groups of workers, so as to achieve the goal for all. Some of the groups that are perhaps the most exposed today also carry out very important operations that must be carried out correctly and the level of safety must be as high as it is in operation. This is especially done by shutting down and maintaining the platforms. The Committee has been aware of the need to ensure that it works well for all groups. So the majority of the committee, and also the entire committee, have been concerned about the problem of night work, but with a little different emphasis on it. But it is such that night work poses additional risks and that night work must be limited to what is strictly necessary. It also limits the safety risk. So to one of the issues that has been central to the debate here today, and it is related to chemical damage in the petroleum sector. Some of us have been with us for a long time and have followed the dive case, which has clear parallels to the chemical damage today. There are differing views among the parties to the Storting on how any compensation/compensation arrangements should be set up in relation to the diving matter. In terms of chemical damage, a sample has been reduced and the majority believe that what came out of this sample’s work should be followed up. It is very important that the medical consequences of chemical damage are now monitored. The screening and medical review will provide the basis for any claims that may arise. It is as in this case, as in all other cases, that the arrangements that exist should be used first. But in some cases, these arrangements do not capture damage that has occurred. SV believes that we need to decide what kind of regime we are going to have, when we have been able to identify the medical damage and which are not captured by existing schemes. In addition, it is reasonable to assume that, in connection with such a case, some of the things you did in the North Sea Diving case must be done, namely to clarify the specific responsibility of the parties who were employers and what liability the State might have. This is a sensitive issue, and I must say that I disagree with the description of the government parties' position in this matter that the rapporteur had on this matter. When the Christian People's Party sat in the previous government, they thought that the North Sea divers should have compensation and not compensation. There's a big difference in this room between how the two concepts are treated. That's why it's with a little bit of amazement that I see you now refer to the Billing Replacement Committee. Then it is easier to understand the proposals of the Progress Party, which follow up what was thought at the time, that we want a replacement system. But on the SV side, we believe that it is too early to conclude on this today, because you need the facts both in terms of the damage and in terms of clarifying the liability that exists, and what kind of compensation schemes can cover the possible damage that might have to be found. Then I find reason to recall that the report states that there is a need to increase safety and preparedness in the northern regions as the oil business and the petroleum business are moving northwards. It is very important that it is followed up in a good way, also in relation to the health, environmental and safety challenges that lie there. Petroleum monitoring is essential for the functioning of the industry in accordance with the high objectives set for it. The Communication identifies a number of areas in which it is expected that the monitoring of Petroleum should be given a higher priority than today, or in particular because it is essential to achieve the high standards of health, environment and safety that have been set. This is why the majority have also said that an assessment of the need for resources in supervision is needed because many new tasks have been assigned. Most recently, some new tasks related to the action plan against social dumping were assigned to it. There is reason to ensure that supervision is equipped with resources proportionate to the tasks entrusted to it. Finally, I would like to stress from the SV that we are very pleased that the Government in the Communication underlines so strongly that the safety philosophy to be used for the health, environmental and safety work in the petroleum sector should be a risk-based philosophy rather than a behavioural philosophy. It is very important because a behavioural safety philosophy will put more of the responsibility on the individual and be a much weaker driver for the development of technologies, procedures and working tools that reduce risks by themselves. This is important, but it is also necessary to identify the industrial development potential contained in such a safety philosophy. We are very pleased that the message makes it so clear, so that you do not feel that it is the individual employee who is responsible for accidents or that work processes should take place without damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1151	Oil and gas extraction, and the industrial development associated with this, is the country's largest industry and crucial to our prosperity. The Klondike vote on the oil industry is over. Now this is established business with professional actors we are allowed to impose high demands on health, the environment and safety. No other industry has the same financial assumptions to maintain a high level of HMS work. However, few industries face major challenges because oil and gas-related activities are at risk. Small errors can have a dramatic impact both on the environment and on workers’ health. This Communication is also about a risky industry with major challenges in ensuring a satisfactory level of HMS work. The communication and input we received from it during the consultation carried out by the Labour and Social Committee shows that the petroleum sector has been through a learning process that has been used to establish a generally high level of HMS work. There is every reason to believe that Storting’s involvement in the HMS work in the sector has been positive and has contributed to the fact that the current level of conflict is significantly lower than the situation before Storting’s treatment of the first notification. There have also been governance changes that work successfully. The establishment of Petroleum Supervision as one of its own activities must be a successful step in strengthening the HMS work in the petroleum sector. The continuous attention of the size of the sector to the conditions of the sector through the decision that the HMS status in the petroleum sector is to be presented to the Size every four years has a positive effect in itself. But there's little reason to rest. The overall accident risk has not been decreasing in recent years. Increased efforts are needed to reduce both leakages, which in worst cases could lead to major accidents and job-related injuries. The Committee, as several previous speakers have said, has considered in particular the need for increased knowledge of the effects of chemical exposure. There is reason to be critical that knowledge about the risks of adverse chemical exposure, already known in the 1980s, does not seem to take sufficient account of it. The Committee draws attention to this issue in various specific comments and expresses the need for action both to prevent it through the use of background and to take action to assist those who are victims of occupational injury. I noticed that the case rapporteur thought it was sad that the majority did not support her view. I also noticed the representative Eriksson's statement that it could hardly be trusted that the majority was serious about their particular comments. I think we're sending the wrong signals from what a unanimous committee, in fact, has been concerned about when you say that. We use the formulations of specific solutions, cheap substitutes, compensation schemes, but everyone in the committee has been very concerned that this is a difficult and difficult matter, where the big community has a responsibility to decide whether it proves necessary. That's why I think it's an unfortunate signal to say that these different concepts mean different solutions when it comes to the problem. The conditions for the pioneers in the North Sea have taught us all something about the importance of the HMS work in areas where one is uncertain about the consequences of an enterprise. The Committee has noted that the current working situation for divers in the petroleum sector seems sound, but underlines the importance of continuing to focus on the long-term follow-up of divers around the North Sea. In this Communication, the focus is on the training provision of divers. The majority of the Committee takes the view that work on setting up an education offer at the Bergen High School is continuing. Training must also facilitate the transition of divers to right-wing positions when the active scuba diving period is over. There are vulnerable working groups in the North Sea. The Committee has shown a broad commitment to pointing to measures for these groups. We've chosen a little bit of different words in the way we express it. I think it's important that you don't make it a greater distance than it is. Employees in the oil industry have emerged in the media with stories of under-reporting of injuries and adverse events in industry. Although the Communication states that there is ‘reason to assume that the registration of damage to persons on the base gives a relatively good picture of the real extent of damage’, there will be a need to stress that the reporting of damage and events that could have led to accidents is a very important part of the damage prevention work. You have to know to improve! I am therefore pleased that the protection of alerts now comes up as a matter of its own, which has already been submitted to the Stortinget, and we must refer to this when we stress that the protection of alerts is also important in relation to reports from what is happening in the North Sea. One of the developments addressed in particular in this Communication is the increasing integration of activities on the ground and on land. This requires the development of a HMS legislation adapted to actual activities and changes in working conditions due to new forms of operation. Another key element of future safety work is the fact that we have entered a phase in which decommissioning of installations becomes an equally important part of offshore activities as the establishment of new plants. Of course, safety and work environment requirements must be enforced as clearly in these activities as in the construction of new ones. There is also reason to be nervous that the entrepreneurs who come and walk on the pedestal and work on plant decommissioning will be caught up in the same long-term work to secure the working environment in the North Sea. In this context, it may be obvious that there will be major issues to address in the HMS message that will come in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1177	After working on this big business message, I have seen that the HMS in the petroleum industry is not exactly the same as in some other companies. Petroleum industry is complex, resulting in a variety of elements, such as: policy objectives, international and national obligations, provide guidance on the design and enforcement of the legislation. The framework for the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities assumes that there must be an adequate level of HMS, which must at all times be as appropriate to the industry as well as to the supervision of the authorities. The main objective is that the petroleum activity is to be the world leader in HMS. In order to achieve our objectives, it is important to have a continuous improvement in the level of HMS, in order to prevent accidents that could affect industry, society and employees. A continuous improvement and a prerequisite for a high level of HMS depends on good training of employees. This training must, and I stress, be adapted to each one, because not everyone has the same skills and prerequisites for learning. The HMS measures in the petroleum industry have to a large extent been targeted at offshore and terrestrial activities. As a consequence of the increased integration of land and offshore activities, a new comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to both land and base will be completed by the end of 2006. The new legislation will and should then bear the mark of international harmonisation in order to reduce the difference between Norwegian and international HMS requirements, which is clearly a need. Petroleum supervision has the primary responsibility to ensure that the HMS requirements are complied with. The notification states that the Petroleum Authority should use resources to monitor and understand the development of the industry in a holistic manner. Over the last few years, peer review has been given a number of new tasks and questions can be asked as to whether the supervision is actually able to carry out what they have been assigned. With a fresh million kroner in the revised national budget, it may seem that supervision is not among the most priority areas — despite the fact that the Government is imposing more and more tasks on them. At the hearing of the Committee in connection with this big message, I got the impression that both the trade union and business associations agreed with the main message of the Communication: Norway’s petroleum activities will lead the world. Disagreement between the parties was largely based on the amount of night and overtime work, while at the same time meeting the need for a good night’s sleep. Such an overall committee points out from the legislation that everyone should be able to sleep undisturbed and that everyone should be assured sufficient rest, as we also heard when we were on a visit to Sleipner in ours. In the case of night work, the Left, together with the Right, considers that consideration should be given to whether the provisions of the Working Environment Act on night work can be transferred to the offshore sector, in order to ensure predictability and to ensure the need for sound activities, security and non-discrimination. Working in the petroleum industry often involves hard physical work and chemical work. In the 1980s, a number of people working in the business were exposed to chemical exposure, resulting in disability. As both the representative Engeset from the Right and the representative Woie Duesund from the Christian People's Party mentioned earlier, these members, together with the Left, have made proposals on how the cheap compensation scheme should be applied to oil workers who have been damaged as a result of chemical exposure. But in order to prevent multiple chemical exposure accidents, it is important that we find out why these got sick. It is therefore gratifying that there is an overall committee that believes this. Divers are another group that has been exposed to accidents and sensitised due to the dive they have performed. The left therefore believes that there is a clear need for long-term follow-up of divers in the petroleum industry, offering health follow-up and assistance to continue onshore professional life. This follow-up work can be organised by the NAV offices, and the Left, together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, has therefore proposed this. Another important element of this Communication is the risk of major accidents in petroleum establishments. An accident at Kårstø or at Sleipner can lead to enormous destruction. To prevent this, measures to reduce the risk of accidents must be of high priority, for example: in cooperation with English activities, which, following the Piper Alpha accident, have worked hard to reduce hydrocarbon leakage. The left will point out that for Norway as an oil and gas nation, cooperation and participation in international bodies are an important and preventative part of our preparedness for terrorism. In addition, priority must be given to the safety of installations. With the great activity in the north, it is also important to have a readiness that is able to deal with any accident. There is also a greater need to strengthen supervisory activities. Good health, environmental and safety measures in the petroleum industry are essential for us to continue to maintain our high level of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1208	The store today deals with St.meld. No 12 on the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities. With this Communication, the Government wishes to focus on the key developments and challenges in the petroleum activities on the base and on the land facilities that the Petroleum Control Authority is responsible for following up. Petroleum activity is the largest industry in the country. The Government's objective is that the petroleum sector will be world leader in health, environment and safety and a leading industry in terms of, inter alia, governance. major accident risk. Today’s petroleum activity generally maintains a high level of health, environment and safety. However, adverse events in recent years have shown that the establishment may involve major accident risks, risks of injury to persons and work-related illness and environmental pollution. This sector also has a significant impact on the Norwegian economy and society in general. The government therefore considers it appropriate and important to focus strongly on the HMS level of the enterprise. The Committee also supports this objective in its recommendation. Major accidents in the petroleum industry have the potential to have significant negative consequences and entail costs of both a human and a social, environmental and economic nature. The prevention of major accidents in the petroleum industry is primarily about protecting life, but is also a key prerequisite for opening environmentally vulnerable areas to activities and maintaining Norway’s reputation in terms of security of supply. This responsibility therefore includes both working environment conditions and technical and operational safety in a high-tech industry. The first notification of HMS in the petroleum industry was submitted in 2001. The size request was made in connection with the submission of such a notification every four years. Unfortunately, in the period since the last big-time report, we have not seen a sustained positive trend in reducing major-accident risks. Nevertheless, there is reason to emphasise that the reduction of risks in individual areas appears to have a clear link with the common focus of industry and administrations. This is important lessons and the Government wants the notification to be a guide for the areas in which efforts should be made in the coming years. I would like to underline the importance of the good and broad cooperation of the parties established in the petroleum sector. Some of the positive changes in the state of HMS in recent years show that good dialogue and cooperation between the parties and the authorities are important prerequisites for improving the level of HMS and ensuring continued value creation. The Communication also highlights the significant human and socio-economic impact of events, work-related illness and damage to petroleum activities. We look at the individual aspects of a job in the petroleum industry and point in particular to the risks associated with working time arrangements and chemical exposure. The government will follow up the reports of the party-groups that have looked at diving in the petroleum industry and the use of chemicals over time in the petroleum industry, and we are concerned that oil workers who do not know what they are exposed to will receive answers. It is positive that the Committee also underlines the importance of these themes. However, I would like to stress that Norway has a well-developed health and welfare system. The Government does not wish to establish special arrangements for workers on the base, and petroleum workers must initially be subject to the same arrangements as the rest of their working life. The petroleum industry must pay constant attention to preventing workers from being exposed to working conditions and pressures leading to early exclusion. A party working group has looked at issues of particular importance for exclusion from the work on the base and has proposed follow-up actions. Both authorities and industry must focus on following the recommendations of the working group. At the same time, it is necessary, both for the authorities and the parties, to gain more knowledge of the individual risk factors. The government will therefore continue to prioritise research efforts on HMS in the petroleum industry. We want more attention to be paid, among other things, to: working time arrangements and chemical exposure. Own projects are already under way to identify and prioritise R & D needs for past and current exposure of chemicals and in relation to the specific working time arrangements available on the base. Risk management, the extent and causes of sick leave, the effects of current working time arrangements and the relationship between exposure to chemicals and work-related disease are among the themes on which more knowledge is needed. For the treatment of St.meld. No 47 for 2002-2003 on the pioneer divers asked the Stortinget Government to come back with a review of how the dive in the petroleum industry is taking place today. This theme has been examined in cooperation with the parties and presented in the Communication. We have also looked into innskjär's diving within the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion. This has been a useful and correct exercise. The professionals and the parties conclude that diving as it is currently taking place in the petroleum industry on the base is considered to be sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1229	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1232	One of the themes of the debate has been on the rules of the Working Environment Act, which can also be applied to the socket. It is true that the Progress Party has proposed that this should be done, while the Right and Left have proposed that this should be investigated. So I've noticed that the majority of the committee writes the following on page 10: ‘The majority have noted that the notification suggests that a proposal for a common working time regulation for terrestrial and capped petroleum activities may be made in the future and will address this issue when it is presented as appropriate.’ I could imagine challenging the Council of States to explain a little more precisely what thoughts he has about the need for a common regulatory framework, and in the event of an estimate of the time when he might think of promoting such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1242	There is no doubt that work on the pedestal is a demanding job, where consideration for the safety and environment of workers is to be placed in the high seat. It is particularly the debate related to night work that has also been the subject of the Committee's attitude, and I would like to stress the importance of limiting this activity to what is necessary for the operation of these facilities, and that there is no greater scope for such work than is necessary. With regard to any future adjustments to working time regulations on the base and working time regulations on land, I will not go into it more closely today. If the government were to assess it more closely in the future, we'd better get back to it. I do not want to go into it today – neither the need for it nor any time to look at it – but I would like to stress what the majority position says, and what is underlying in the communication, that we want to limit specifically night work to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1249	Let me follow up on the previous question. In the case of working time regulations, the industry itself has stated that a further restriction on night work and a transfer of more work at daytime may lead to a continuation of work at daytime. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: does the Council of State also see the security challenges you face if you continue to work too much in the daytime, as the industry itself has pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1256	There is no doubt that a very large proportion of offshore work is associated with safety risks. We know, and experience suggests, that work at night is also associated with greater risks than work at daytime. We have documented that and are aware of it through the experience we have gained with this type of work. Therefore, there will be a balance between what gives the highest risk: increased work at night or greater density at day. Experience so far suggests that it makes sense to limit work at night. So far, we have little experience of increasing daytime activity leading to a safety risk beyond what is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1261	It may seem that oil companies in the 1980s had considerable knowledge of the chemical risk to which they exposed many of their employees. However, no protective measures were taken until the 1990s. I have met several oil workers who are currently out of work, and they are strongly influenced by the fact that over the years they were exposed to dangerous chemicals during work in the oil industry. These are meetings that make a strong impression. The impressions are strong because these people have had their health ruined after they were proud that the oil companies put them into harmless work. I am very pleased that a joint committee supports the demand that the reason for the knowledge of the risks of adverse chemical exposure known in the 1980s was not taken into account until a relatively long period of time had passed, is sought through research. When is the Government going to undertake such research, or are we going to call it a research project?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1268	It's an important topic that's being addressed here. Unfortunately, both workers on the base and partly workers on the land were exposed to chemical use in the past, as we then had too little knowledge of the consequences. A working group composed of both industry and government partners has concluded that the chemical work environment on the base is currently sound. At the same time, as the representative says, there is exposure from chemicals in the past that we do not know enough about. This is now to be addressed in cooperation with industry and research communities, because, as was said, it is important that workers' groups who have been exposed to this and who fear the consequences of previous chemical exposure get the best possible response to what they have been exposed to and the possible consequences of this, and that it happens as quickly as possible. I can't give precise time, but this will be priority work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1274	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1277	I had so much on my heart that I couldn't finish what I was going to say. Now that we are facing major extractions in the north, I think it is important to make it clear that an overall committee has stressed that preparedness in the northern regions needs to be strengthened as exploration and development progresses. The Committee also underlines the need for preparedness in relation to major accidents, injuries and medical preparedness. This implies requirements for industry and public responsibilities and responsibilities. I noticed that the representative of the Central Party clearly said that they would support those who have been exposed to chemicals, if necessary. I think that's positive. After meeting those who have had their health ruined, and who fear the future, it is important for me and for the Christian People's Party that one starts now. That is why today's proposal. The need is there, in our opinion. In connection with the submission by the Government of a separate proposal on alerts on Friday, a press release states: ‘If the employee is cancelled or punished by other means, it is the employer who has to be sure that this was not justified by the warning.’ This is in line with the Christian People's Party's intention in proposal No. 5, and I therefore ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the notification of St. No 12 and thank you for a constructive debate. I believe that this is a good starting point for the Petroleum Control to succeed in being a leader in terms of health, environment and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1295	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2675]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1311	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1320	Representatives Ulf Leirstein, Kenneth Svendsen and Øyvind Korsberg ask the Stortinget to instruct the Government to propose that the permit regime be extended to 42 weeks and that the employer’s period of compulsory pay on leave is reduced to five working days. In its opinion, the Committee points out that, in its budgetary position for 2006, the Labour and Social Committee calls on the Government, in cooperation with the social partners, to look at different aspects of permitting legislation. With reference to this request, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen states in his letter in connection with the Committee's examination of the current case that he intends to hold a meeting with the social partners in the near future. The majority of the Committee – all parties other than the Progress Party – are pleased that the Government will return to the Stortinget with feedback to the Committee’s request in the context of the 2007 State Budget. On the basis of this, the matter is proposed, annexed to the minutes. Both for industry and for workers, good legislation on permitting is needed. Although the situation in the labour market today is brighter than it is for a long time, we have industries and vulnerable professions that live under periodic fluctuations that make the state law of permitment important in order to maintain jobs. Permitting legislation is not least important for maintaining business activities in the districts, where the option of permitting could easily be moved to find alternative work. In the draft budget proposed by the Bondevik government, the leave arrangements were amended by extending the employer’s period of leave from five to ten days, and by reducing the right to daily allowance under leave from 42 weeks to 26 weeks. A broad majority in Stortinget – all parties except the Advance Party – joined the government’s proposal to increase the daily allowance period to 34 weeks. This change was estimated at EUR 180 million in the Government’s budget paper. kr. An extension of 42 weeks would represent the need for an additional 180 million. kr. in appropriations. I mention these figures to show that adjustments in the permitting legislation that can have a limiting effect, i.e. represent large budget statements. In the context of the 2006 State Budget, the Progress Party also promoted the same proposals as they repeat in its Document No. Now we have an 8--proposal. They didn't get there in that treatment, but they're coming back, and that's the full opportunity. However, I am quite sure that the majority will contribute to an orderly procedure by giving the Government the opportunity to return to the State budget for 2007. That's what the Stortinget asked for, and that's what the Stortinget should be dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1337	It is almost unnecessary to speak in this debate after the rapporteur has presented the matter very well. What is very brief is: are we going to wait for what we know to come into the state budget and which is announced in the previous state budget, or are we going to make regulatory changes here and now? I think it might be worth discussing the permitting arrangements. I am not quite sure that there should be an objective in itself that the permitting code should be nailed and thus predictable in all directions. I believe that the legislation on permitting also needs to be adjusted somewhat according to the times we are in. Today, hardly the law of permacy is the most acute issue for Norwegian working life. For some industries it may be a problem, and it is also one of the things to look at towards the state budget, when it comes, as was the case with the rapporteur. I believe that what is most important is to look at the effects of legislation as it works today, and how it can work both in the industry and overall in the long term. It is no secret that the government parties were not very excited to follow up the previous government's proposal regarding the law of the permit. This also allowed us to extend the period of leave, but we were not able to land with the employer period in the legislation. We think that might be the basis for getting it to something better in the time that comes, but this is also something that has to be worked with the parties to find the good solutions. We look forward to this being presented in connection with the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1350	Let me first point out that the previous enlargement unanimously approved, in the context of the 2005 revision of the national budget, that the Bondevik II Government should: ‘propose and present a proposal for a permanent legislation on the rules on permitting both cyclical and seasonal considerations in the context of the 2006 State budget’. We all know that this has not happened. Not only has the case been postponed for one year, but at the same time it has increased excess and reduced the daily allowance period. I have, of course, noticed the letter of reply from the State Council, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, of 8 May this year, saying that it is aimed at holding a meeting with the social partners in the near future. The Party considers that the legislation on permitting, as in force until 31 December 2005, should have been maintained until the notified analysis was carried out. I must therefore say that I am somewhat surprised that the sitting government, considering what was said in the election campaign last autumn, has not proposed to maintain the legislation in force until the end of 2006. One should have believed and should have expected that at least the government wanted what they said to do, to take care of the original aspects of the permitting legislation. Instead, a shorter daily allowance period has been introduced and additional costs have been borne by industry with increased probabilities by having now been paid ten days. The negative consequences of the reductions in the permitting rules are indicated by a report on the consequences of tighter permitting rules. Among other things, evidenced that there would be a large decrease in the number of ten-day leavers because the companies would be more willing to resort to temporary employment rather than permanent employment. Furthermore, it was noted that the consequences of this would lead to a deterioration in productivity and recruitment, and that health, environment and safety would be poorer. Recruitment of motivated and competent new staff, including: apprentices have been significantly weakened due to increased uncertainty about permanent employment. I am aware of the situation on the labour market, but we must remember here that we are talking about industries that are very cyclical. The Party considers that it is necessary to propose legislative improvements in the interests of workers and Norwegian enterprises before the new rules cause excessive damage. I therefore allow myself to address the proposal that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1366	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2676]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1384	One of the first inspections carried out by the Labour and Social Committee last autumn was a visit to Abelia, the NHO Association for Knowledge and Technology Enterprises. They are actively working to employ, facilitate and maintain competent workers with disabilities. At the time, Abelia requested a scheme called ‘Green Card’, which would provide the disabled jobseeker with a document from the social security office showing that any cost of organising the job would be borne by the social security office and carried out by the assistance centre immediately after employment. Despite significant improvements in the labour market, the situation of disabled persons is equally difficult. There are still too many outsiders, despite the intentions of the IA Agreement. A study has been prepared by the National Documentation Centre to show clearly that disabled people are in line with the job interview, even if they are well qualified for the job. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that this is worrying, and there is therefore a strong willingness to reverse this negative trend. In a letter of 19 May from the Council of State, we can read that such a scheme as is requested by the proposers must have been put in place by the Rikstrygdeverket in the autumn of 2005, under the name ‘Guarantee for Follow-up’. The Progress Party considers the idea of ‘Green Card’ to be very good and is therefore very concerned that no interested party appears to have realised that a ‘Green Card’ scheme has already been put in place. A call to some social security offices and assistance centres shows that this scheme is poorly known, or completely unknown, despite the fact that it is actually these to administer the scheme. User organisations we have been in contact with seem not to know this scheme either. On this basis, it is reassuring that the Council of State in its letter of 19 May states that the scheme will be evaluated until the harvest once it has been for one year and that the Rikstrøgdewerk will then assess the scope and impact of the scheme. Furthermore, in the same letter, the Council of State states that: ‘the social authorities and social partners assess the mechanism of the instruments of the IA Agreement. [[...]] In this context, it is discussed whether there is a need for a more comprehensive organisation guarantee, the aim of which is to provide the employer with the security for disabled workers to receive the necessary assistance required by the disability in the specific work situation.» There is an overall committee that meets the notified evaluation of the current guarantee scheme and assumes that the review takes into account both the content, the legislation and the extent to which the scheme has been made sufficiently known to users, as it seems clear that the scheme is currently very small or not known to the parties involved at all. It is important to stress that it is essential that all tools, both economic and technical, are clarified for the interview and that they are immediately triggered by confirmation of employment. It is therefore reassuring when the Council of State writes in its follow-up letter of 1 June: ‘The Ministry will, in cooperation with the Rikstrøgdeverket, continue to follow up the scheme in order to ensure that it is well known and used in all the aid centres of the country.’ On this basis, the Committee proposes that the document be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1412	I would like to start by commending the proposers and the case rapporteur for a good work on an important topic. We're talking about the opportunities of people with disabilities in the labour market, we're talking about jobseekers with the need for organized jobs, and then we're talking about people who probably have given up. Available information says little about the individual's experience, but there are some figures at the aggregate level that are likely to dangle around. About 15 pst. the population indicates that they have a disability. Only 44 pst. Of these, employed, against 74 pst. of the population as a whole. So it's a whole 30 percent point difference. That difference has been stable over time, but as a society, we cannot accept that this continues to be stable. When we know at the same time that they're 56 pst. of disabled persons who are not employed are included in the corresponding 26 pst. So the gap between people with disabilities and those with disabilities is even greater than 30 percentage points. At the same time, it is a strange phenomenon that unemployment among people with disabilities is lower than in the population as a whole. And what does that say? Well, as I was about to say, most likely it says that many have given up, and become recipients of benefits from the social security office, while they would preferably be contributors to the Equation Office. For some, social security is the best solution. But we know that it doesn't apply to everyone. Discrimination and lack of practical organisation by employers, both in the public and in the private sectors, deter unnecessarily many from working life that others take for granted. The contract of inclusive working life has ambitions to correct this, but has unfortunately failed so far. Good intentions were not followed by targeted activity. The Council of State suggests that this should be corrected in the new agreement on inclusive working life, and we also welcome the Council of State's feedback on this to the Stortinget. Then we have a little hope, because we know that there are examples of targeted action working. For example, Telenor's Handicap program, which has its 10th anniversary this year, can be mentioned. Under the motto ‘You don’t have to go to work only you will...’, the programme is part of Telenor’s continuous recruitment of skilled labour. Thus, the emphasis is on the continuous recruitment of skilled labour, as defined by the employer’s need for skilled labour. During the programme period, which has remained for ten years now, 75 pst. So far they've got a job, and of them again, three out of four remain at work. These are quite impressive results. It is not just a matter of a deliberate attitude against discrimination; it is also a matter of theft for the recruitment of good talents. Then was the case rapporteur at Abelia, the NHO Association for Knowledge and Technology Enterprises, which also has its own project, which is called ‘Good heads at work’, where employers are to be motivated to call disabled people for an interview — ‘talents with a need for input’, as they are called in that programme. The experience from this is that it is difficult to provide employers with knowledge of an unbridled social security system and that the practical organisation support system is difficult to predict. It has to be sought in the specific case, and the answer is also waiting. So the job goes to someone else. Abelia’s wish was that disabled people, or ‘talents with a need for access’, as they are called, could interview with advance commitments for support for necessary organisation and even inform the employer of the measures that accompany an employment, a so-called ‘Green Card’. In Document No: 8:78, therefore, proposals are being made on this subject. Then it turns out that the scheme already exists – introduced in the autumn of 2005. ‘Follow-up guarantee’, as the scheme is called, is a proof that job seekers can bring not only for interview but that they should actually be able to attach to the job application. The aim is to provide information to the employer and rapid assistance in the organisation of work. However, the scheme is clearly too poorly known and thus not used. Therefore, I am pleased with the attendance of the Council of State when he says that he will consider all aspects of the existing system in order to make it better known and more effective. This is about the organisation of workplaces that, as they are designed today, seem exclusive and discouraging to people who like to. At Fornebu, at Telenor, we saw a workplace where buildings and accommodation are deliberately arranged so that people with disabilities can work on the same line as everyone else. It must also be the long-term objective of all jobs that specific measures are not necessary. We will come back to that when the anti-discrimination law is to be dealt with. In the meantime, we have to make the best of what is. Together with good attitudes, an improved guarantee scheme will be one of several instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1427	I am pleased that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to have a debate on this topic in a proper way. The previous two articles invite a good debate. It is a fact that disabled people are at the back of the job queue and that discrimination against people with disabilities is common in the workplace, both in the public and private sectors, as has already been mentioned. This is the case even when the disabled person is very well qualified. Unfortunately, many enterprises or public enterprises act almost on reflex when applications from the disabled are made at the bottom of the bunker. Many believe and believe, often without reason, that hiring a disabled person automatically leads to trouble, additional costs and high costs. Most of all, I think this tells me that there are many bad attitudes out there and going, and attitudes are known to be difficult to change. You can't just decide that people should get better opinions, neither on this issue nor on others. A recent poll, published a few weeks ago, showed that many more consider a prior conviction than a disabled person. With this in mind as a backtrace and starting point promoted the Right of this Document No. The 8-proposal that we are discussing today. Before that, we, as the rapporteur said, had visited Abelia. We've also been to Telenor's centre, where they've really done a job in this field that impressed us. A so-called ‘Green Card’ scheme was requested. And so it was at a time when this scheme was supposed to have already been put in place. It was at that time completely unknown to the Committee and Abelia and Telenor. The rapporteur of the case has considered how little known the scheme is. This is in itself a major problem, not least because the scheme is to be evaluated for the harvest. We know that per. Today the scheme is very poorly known, to say it very carefully. You almost have to say that it's a well-kept secret. As a result, the scheme will be of little use or not used at all. Evaluating a system that is not known and not used may well mean getting a conclusion that implies: well, this wasn't any particular success, it hasn't had any effect. It is difficult to obtain the effect of such a measure unless it is presented and marketed in an offensive and targeted manner. Furthermore, when we were informed that this scheme was supposed to be in place, we tried from our point of view to clarify whether the scheme had taken up the intention we actually had with our proposal, by sending letters to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The letter of reply showed that the organisation obligation of the assistance centres has not been extended as a result of the scheme, so the scheme was called ‘guarantee certificate’. Then, after the Committee's decision was given, something new happened. I had really enjoyed and looked forward to having the opportunity to clarify with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – i.e. not the present Council of State, but he who is not here, but who should have been here, and then not to a reduction for the Minister of Oil and Energy – directly in this debate what is the difference between a guarantee certificate and the new concept that appeared a few days ago, namely the ‘planning guarantee’, which was presented in the context of the additional agreement on inclusive working life. Deservingly, the Christian People's Party group raised this in a question to the Council of State, and the answer has now been given to the committee. I have read the letter of reply up to several times, so I have not been able to see with my best intention that there is any difference between the so-called guarantee certificate and the completely new one, namely the organisation guarantee. Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says in this letter, dated 12 June: ‘The bridging guarantee does not therefore imply anything new as far as instruments are concerned, but the new one is to provide a guarantee of rapid processing and necessary follow-up related to the employment of disabled persons.’ I guess there was nothing new either. That was basically the same thing as it was originally said that the guarantee certificate scheme would mean. It was not the case that the scheme of guarantee certificates should not involve rapid follow-up. It actually said that it should be quick follow-up, and it also repeats here. So neither I nor more I have shown the letter to have been able to grasp the difference. That's it. The most important thing now is at least that we get a system that takes care of the intention we have had by promoting the proposal, and what disabled people, business and others have wanted for a longer time. And then I think in essence the best conclusion can be to quote what the committee, a unanimous committee, writes in its position – and this is a message to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, as I ask Odd Roger Enoxen to bring with him: ‘The Committee would like to stress the importance of the completion of all instruments, economic and technical, for the job interview and their immediate release upon confirmation of employment.’ It is essentially the main message of the Government when it is about to look at the scheme, improve it and make it widely known. It is not enough to promise a quick follow-up and assistance. One must also guarantee that the costs will be covered. If that happens, I think this can be one tool among many, but an important tool, to make the opportunities for the disabled who have ended up outside and who would like and can contribute to their working capacity and competence in the professional life a little bit bigger. I really hope that this arrangement will be a success. I have faith in that, if everyone adds the goodwill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1457	The President has not read out any discussion papers on this matter. So it's up to the committee to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1460	A policy to increase employment and reduce social security needs to include the instruments mentioned in the proposal that came from the Right and that have been concluded in this position by the Labour and Social Committee. It is quite obviously right, as the last speaker stressed, and as has been said by a unanimous committee, that it is important that all instruments, economic and technical, are ready for the job interview, and that they are triggered immediately upon confirmation of employment. It is essential for this to function smoothly and for it to become a reality for those entering the labour market who have a disability or a disability that makes them need different types of organisation. We know that there is a great deal of lack of physical organization in almost all building masses across the country, lack of facilities for work-related tasks, and there is also widespread discrimination on the part of several speakers. It is true that it is difficult to reverse positions by political decisions, whether it is also part of the policy. But there are a few things we can decide. And adopting and deciding that such a system as this should be operating and operating as we have said, is therefore fully feasible. I have to say that I think it is a bit funny that a scheme that was established in the autumn of 2005, at that time, was not known to those who were poachers neither under the previous government nor under this government. It tells me a little bit about some people working with good things, but you put a little little political drag behind some of these things that are so hugely important to the people involved, and that, after all, has been part of one of the big political debates we have, that is, how we are going to reduce the number of people who involuntaryly end up in bad luck. Then I have to say I think it's a little funny that you try to organize something that everyone agrees with the heart, but that remains in the greatest secret until someone finds it out. But good is now that it comes for a day. Then there's the other thing we can decide to do in this area. There I would make a strong recommendation to the State and the entire public sector to take responsibility in this area. There are many talents that need to fit in, as the representative Christoffersen said. Those talents also need to be of interest to the state, because it reduces the dissatisfaction, of course, but most of all because these are talents that have skills, knowledge and competences that the state also actually needs. Therefore, the State must have an active policy in relation to recruiting people with disabilities. You have to set your goals in this area, you have to put in place trainee schemes, so that young people with disabilities who come straight out of education have the opportunity to practice. This is the difficulty today, and then you never get to try and never prove that you actually have competence. It is also necessary for the public sector, and the state, to take a major responsibility for facilitating employment when recruiting. This system, now called ‘planning guarantee’ and called the ‘Green Card’ scheme in the document, is needed. But one also needs a conscious employer's attitude, not only to recruit, but also to how to carry out the work at work. There's a lot left to do here. In spite of the fact that when we discuss these matters, basically a touching consensus, it goes far too small. I have to admit that in SV we are very impatient. We are very impatient to put in place active tools to enable us to recruit these talents that need to fit into working life, and which have the same right as all of us to use their talents, to make use of their knowledge, and not to hear every day that it is a problem that they are in social security, when it is actually such that there is a lack of organisation and unacceptable attitudes that prevent them from exploiting their labour force. I am pleased that we have dealt with this matter today, and I look forward to the Government also coming with other active measures, in particular to recruiting into its own business. That's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1477	We know that people with disabilities are often overlooked during employment even if they are well qualified for the job. Discrimination against people with disabilities is totally unacceptable and must be combated. These include: the need to establish a law against discrimination against persons with disabilities and a body capable of enforcing such a law. I hope that the Council of State can assure the Storting that the work on an anti-discrimination law for disabled people is a priority in the Government. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that society must contribute to equal treatment for all, regardless of disability, by actively contributing to the organisation of the workplace. A «Green Card» as outlined in Document No. In this context, the 8 proposal will be an important instrument, and I would like to give the right-wing rapporteurs credit for focusing on an important issue. The proportion of people with disabilities in work does not appear to have increased during the period of the IA agreement. This gives cause for concern. There is a need for a broad review of the means of getting disabled people to work, and I am looking forward to the Storting being able to do this during the work on the welfare report, which has been notified to the autumn. It is positive that a system of guarantee certificates has already been put in place. It should be possible to attach the guarantee certificate to the job application and ensure that, if the disabled person is hired, the employer will quickly contribute to the organisation of the job in line with the specific needs of the applicant. It is a very important task to familiarise the individual case handler in the social security system and all the assistance centres with the system of guarantee certificates. However, the scheme has not been made public either by regulation or by circulars. Letters from the Ministry of 1 June of this year shall state: ‘Pracsis is that the states orientate user organisations through their own channels in the counties.’ I cannot say that the information strategy to which it has so far been put is reassuring. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will urge the Council of State to strengthen the work of announcing the guarantee card scheme both for auxiliary workers and, in particular, for users. The press release of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on 6 June this year describes a new instrument for achieving the objectives of the IA agreement to increase the number of people with disabilities in work as follows: ‘Animation guarantee testing starts in five counties in 2007 with a view to making the scheme nationwide as from 1 January 2008.’» On the following day, on 7 June, I addressed a written request to the Ministry about the difference between the guarantee certificate scheme, which will be in place, and the organisation guarantee, which is planned to be introduced. The Ministry’s letter of reply, which came today, explains that the guarantee certificate ‘applies to the organisation of the workplace through ergonomic measures and tools when a person with a long and significantly reduced function is applying for or receiving a job offer’, while the organisation guarantee is intended to ensure that ‘the necessary assistance required by the disability is actually provided in the specific work situation’. Well, I have to admit, this is kind of confusing. The guarantee certificate, which I thought would guarantee organisation, must therefore be supplemented by an organisation guarantee, which must guarantee that it is actually given as the guarantee certificate. Such a regime is I'm afraid will cause more uncertainty than it will lead to help. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State how he believes that the boundaries should be specifically drawn between these two arrangements. For the Christian People's Party, work has been done to get more disabled people into work very high priority. It seems that this objective is shared by all parties on the Stortinget, and it provides a good basis for further efforts. One of the most important tasks of politicians is to facilitate equal opportunities for all. In this context, the introduction of a guarantee certificate is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1507	This debate has shown, first and foremost, that the situation in Stortinget is an impatience after ensuring that the organisation of facilities at the workplace to which disabled people are entitled should be such that they can be used in job search and that the employer and the employee should be sure of what they are dealing with. We agree. In the case, it is pointed out that this already exists. We have had a long debate on what really exists and how it is known. What I would like to say is that the evaluation round which has now been expressed should not be too broad. There is no particular intention to have a broad, long-term evaluation of who is familiar with this. This evaluation round clearly needs to focus on the internal practice of the Rikstrøgde Agency and how it can be improved in order to help identify and benefit those for whom it is intended. There is clearly a need to review both the internal work of the Rikstrøgdeverket – the preparatory matter – and the information provided by the Rikstrøgdeverket on what measures are being offered, including those institutions to be contributors and implement them, such as the assistance centres. There is no particular need to evaluate whether disabled people are aware of the scheme, whether the organisations of disabled people are familiar with it, whether employers are familiar with it, or whether the political environment is familiar with it. Because we have been documented that no one is familiar with this scheme. Therefore, a very effective evaluation round is needed to facilitate the implementation of the scheme as soon as possible. We who have worked on this issue in the Labour and Social Committee have recorded that there is a queue of disabled people who want to get out of work, who are competent in a number of areas, who are ready to do their job in the workplace but who experience closed doors, and who just look at this guarantee certificate or this Green Card scheme as a greater opportunity to compete on equal terms with others. We simply have to make sure that this is put into practice quickly, and I understand that the Council of State has said that he will contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1518	In the matter we are discussing now, there is really no major disagreement. Everyone agrees that best efforts must be made to make it possible for disabled people to get out of work. The proposed measure, a ‘Green Card’ scheme, was introduced in the autumn of 2005 by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, which was briefed in his letter of reply of 19 May 2006. This guarantee certificate is thus known as ‘Guarantee for Follow-up’. I have noticed that the Committee meets the notified evaluation of the guarantee scheme referred to, which will take place once the scheme has been in force for one year, in the autumn of 2006. I also take with me the input that has come from the committee, last from the representative Sundsbø. I have also noticed that the Committee assumes that the evaluation takes into account both the content, the regulatory design and the extent to which the scheme has been made sufficiently known to users. It is correct, as the Committee has felt, that this scheme does not grant new rights to facilities. On the other hand, it allows users to attach to their job applications information that there is a support device that can help solve practical problems through job organisation. The scheme thus shows the employer that a disabled person does not have to become an additional burden on the enterprise. I have also noticed that the Committee expects that the scheme will be followed up with concrete and offensive information measures to users and user organisations. This will be provided by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in cooperation with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. I refer here also to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion's letter to the Stortinget of 1 June 2006. The Committee would like to stress the importance of the completion of all tools, economic and technical, for the job interview and their immediate release upon confirmation of employment. In this context, I would like to inform you that the need to organise the workplace for individual users could vary from one job to another. ‘Follow-up guarantee’ will not be able to clarify everything in advance. Some questions will have to wait for a concrete job evaluation to be carried out, which will be relevant once the user has received the job. The purpose of the «Guarantee for Follow-up» scheme is precisely to oblige the establishment to provide rapid assistance in the organisation of jobs and to provide information to potential employers on the services available to the assistance centre and the local responsible person. I have also noticed that the Committee assumes that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion will give appropriate feedback on any changes resulting from the renegotiation of instruments in the IA Agreement in spring 2006 and the results of the evaluation of the Guarantee Facility in autumn 2006. In this respect, I can inform you that the Government of the Minister for Labour and the Inclusion and the Minister for Renewal and Administration, as well as the social partners, signed a supplement to the IA Agreement on 6 June 2006. In this Appendix, the parties to the agreement included: agree on the establishment of an organisation guarantee scheme as a pilot scheme in five counties from 1 January 2007 with a view to making the scheme nationwide as from 1 January 2008. I see that there are some questions about the difference in the organisation guarantee and the guarantee of follow-up. I am not sure that I can fully clarify this, but an organisation guarantee should provide the individual jobseeker, employee and employer concerned with the assurance that the jobseeker or disabled person concerned will actually receive the necessary assistance required by the disability in the specific work situation. To this end, the authorities guarantee that the measures, including labour market measures and facilities needed by individuals at work, are granted and implemented as early as possible. In addition, both the individual jobseeker, the employee and the employer are guaranteed a further follow-up after employment, where the employment and welfare seat provides rapid assistance when it is needed. The organisation guarantee does not imply anything new as far as instruments are concerned, but the new one is that a guarantee of rapid processing and necessary follow-up related to the recruitment of disabled persons is provided. An important part of the guarantee is a contact person who is responsible for the follow-up of the individual user both before and after the appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2676]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1556	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2676]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1573	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2676]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1589	Suggestion providers focus on an important area. To facilitate unbureaucratic and flexible laws, so that these are of help to the company and not of hindrance, it is also occupied by this government. I will first draw up the text of the Committee. The Committee asks the Ministry to look at the possibilities for simplified reporting to the Management Board. This will come back to us in the review of the stock laws now to the fall. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider the audit obligations of the smallest enterprises in the context of the implementation of the expected new EEA rules on audit and auditors, which also take into account the changes carried out and current in other Nordic countries. The Committee also points out that the level of the fee should reflect actual costs. The Committee is concerned about the growth of Norwegian registered foreign companies, known as the NUFs. There is good reason to believe that these companies are established abroad just to avoid Norwegian company law. For example, in England there is no audit obligation, and a negligible share capital requirement. A joint committee therefore asks the department to follow closely in the development, with a special look at the seriousness of these companies. The majority of the committee, the Labour Party and SV, see both the advantages and disadvantages of lower share capital. The benefits include: that the threshold for the formation of a company can be lowered, and we are aware that some difficulties in obtaining a share capital of NOK 100000 are being weighed. We have therefore assessed, inter alia: whether it is possible to build up the share capital during, for example: three years. But this seems a little realistic, as most of the new companies are struggling with profitability just for the first three to five years. The advantage of the fact that the share capital is set at a lower level than today may quickly be one of credit institutions setting up the price of credit because of risks and of suppliers of goods giving shorter credit terms and conditions. Thus, the majority is not sure that the companies will actually improve with lower share capital. The Committee's plurality suggests that any changes in the ability to deliver annual tasks and the point of the number of VAT payments must be seen in the context of other changes in the deadlines for payment and payment in the area of taxation. In the case of simplification and differentiation between small and large limited liability companies, it will often be more relevant to differentiate the rules independently of the form of enterprise, so that one is given more simplified rules for all types of enterprises that can be characterised as small by the given criterion. If we design own company law legislation also for the very small limited liability companies, this will lead to our operating with three types of limited liability companies in Norway. This is in addition to the fact that we see a trend when it comes to EU law, to want to design own company law rules for companies with axles traded in a regulated market – stock exchanges etc. We are then on the road to four types of limited liability companies, while large parts of the business community give the impression that the distinction between the form of a limited liability company and the form of a public limited liability company is difficult enough. This view was also supported during the hearings here in Stortinget. The audit obligation will come back to us in the context of the review of the share law, but it is worth noting that the audit obligation is far more than going through the accounting. The consulting service as a sheep is worth gold to many newcomers who don't try and fail but who get good advice and tips from people who know the company. In minority comments, it is pointed out that an unnecessarily complicated code scares women from establishing their own business. The Labour Party and SV do not agree that women have more weight to figure out than men have. The government of Stoltenberg would like to encourage more women to start their own business. And we want to develop a national action plan for women entrepreneurs and create funding mechanisms that specifically stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship among women. These include: Set of 10 million. kr for a woman’s contribution to the year’s budget. In Soria Moria we also state that we will extend the system of establishment grants for founders under the direction of Innovation Norway and also outsource the creation of a founder bank. We want to secure entrepreneurs and establish good social arrangements, including: by looking at the conditions for self-employed persons to combine professional careers with childcare. It is a positive initiative from the opposition – to look at making it easier to establish small businesses in Norway. We therefore look forward to a good and constructive debate on this subject in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1628	It was a long post from the representative of the Workers' Party. She looks with concern at the establishment of all these NUF companies, which one can now just go online and do for a pound, while one in Norway has to spend $6,000 to establish a company. She has a positive view of entrepreneurs and start-ups in Norway. But how does this relate to each other? Why can't she at least point at any of these points to make it a little easier in Norway, so that one doesn't have to go around London to register a company and run in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1633	I thank you for the question. Now a group of committees have expressed their views on the NUFs and how we are going to deal with these companies, so I assume that the representative is also behind what the Joint Committee has said. When it comes to the other things the representative deals with, we have actually pointed out a good deal that we want to do something about, and that we want to mention when we come back to the share law in the autumn, among other things. making reporting easier when you are a company owner and also a member of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1642	So there's no discussion here, so it's now up to the committee to sort it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1645	We're not going to go out of time. I note that our proposal for a wide-ranging investigation is also widely accepted by those who know where the shoe is pressing. I think that should lead to a little greater openness from the representative Heggø. The representative Hegø was concerned that women can also start a share company, and then I ask the following question: Has the representative Hegø visited at any time some of the women's networks that are asking for a simpler share law, so that one can move from being a personal sole proprietor to organizing his own share company? It might have been interesting to know. Or is it based solely on the law department and law experts in the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1654	I can answer it very briefly: Yes. I've visited women's networks. I am also a member of a women's network when it concerns the establishment of a limited liability company – I am on that list. When I worked as a business consultant, the women were not the most busy to bring down the share capital; they would rather double him, because they were afraid they would lose, so the creditors suffered losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1659	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. The President proposed that the meeting be extended to the debate on case No. 9 has been completed – it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1664	I'll be brief. As this good proposal is today voted down by the socialists, who again show their true face to creating new businesses, I am pleased that we have an EEA agreement. Today, there is no relief for entrepreneurs. We get no simplification in reporting to the board. In most small businesses you are owned, and you sit on the board yourself. There is no simplification of the register documents, and it is sky-high company registration. That's what you're left with after the majority has said theirs today. So there's zero understanding of creating new businesses. It is then a relief for me that the EU has understood that we need to take care of the entrepreneurs and make it easier to start and operate smaller businesses in Norway. Forget about Sosiaist Norway! You can register in London for a pound and let socialist hungry politicians and bureaucrats just sit here. You can go into web-based services, which we refer to in the case papers – there we even have a web address written up. You can click in, and immediately you have registered your own company for £30-40 instead of the NOK 6000 you have to sign up with when you register in the Brønnøsund Registers. In addition, much of the bureaucracy is gone when you register and operate under the legislation that is there. Finally, I would like to address the proposal contained on page 4 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1677	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1681	The examination of this proposal has made it apparent that its small businesses do not exactly have the same hotline for key decision-makers as some others do in this country. The treatment has also made it apparent that some unfortunately seem to believe that tax revenue, as most of us here in the hall, is very focused on providing, is just something that shows up, and that is ready for picking. I record that the rapporteur believes that there will be an unbridled corporate legal landscape with e.g. three types of limited liability company. An interesting question to ask is whether that view is also shared by the accountants who may be dealing with it in practice, whether it is more inconspicuous and labour-intensive than the large number of personal entrepreneurs we have today. Instead of painting on 11 sides in addition to all possible rules that a company might have to have, it might have been possible for once to turn the issue around and ask the more interesting question about which rules an alternative form of company does not need to contain, which is the whole purpose of the proposal – rather than eleven sides to contest most of the changes. It all carries, with respect to report, the most characteristic that someone has read a little too much Mads Henry Andenees. In any case, establishing a completely new form of company is not the essential element of the proposal being raised. The point is to assess how to make everyday life easier for all the small entrepreneurs in Norway, and all those who – at least some of us – want to see the light of day in the future. I have understood that the concept of ‘active enterprise policy’, which was to be characterised by the provision of tools for the toolbox, had very short shelf life, and now instead consists of a food policy jewelry box – it was stated in a newspaper. It is something that at least the Right gets out on festive occasions, but I hope that it is used more often by the current government. Although the current majority is very concerned about Statoil in various ways, the Norwegian business community is not dominated by Statoil and enterprises of similar size. However, Norwegian business is dominated by small enterprises that spend time and the power to meet legal requirements that are intended to be entirely different to other enterprises, of a completely different size. Most have, when they think about it, either a relative, a neighbor or a friend who tries to get it all around in small companies, where the same person is the owner, the Executive Director and perhaps the Chairman of the Board, and the members of the Board are often active in the daily work and often also the owners. It is gratifying that the Committee is united that the Ministry should consider simplified reporting to the Management Board in the context of the review of the Share Act for the autumn and assess the audit obligation of the smallest companies. But in the light of the almost unambiguous signals given to the Committee in open consultation, the majority should go further than starting out a lack of interest in simply making it easier for all the individuals who would like to create their own jobs. Regardless of its political ideology or its political stance, it should also be possible to be more active than simply asking the Ministry to follow up and assess whether Norwegian registered foreign enterprises, so-called NUFs, are operating seriously. One doesn't have to be particularly psychic to see what the effect is if one continues to let one of the NUFs be created one after the other, rather than establishing it as an ordinary AS. There is an increased risk of tax avoidance, both in Norway and abroad, and poor use of societal resources. The Association of Norwegian Accounting Officers made it clear in its opinion to the Committee: ‘NARF considers that the number of NUF establishments alone is sufficient for an examination of whether a simplified regulation should be introduced for small limited liability companies.’ This opinion was shared by all the other hearing bodies for this proposal. Rather than taking a ‘wait and look at what you already know will happen’ position, the Government should immediately start work to facilitate the necessary regulatory changes to reverse these developments. We encourage even more people than today to take the chance to drive for themselves. This applies not least to women. I strongly recommend the case rapporteur to take a further study trip to the Women's Network in Follo in Akershus, and ask them what they could imagine that more women than today are taking the opportunity to start their own business. It is not a question of believing that women will not, there are questions about women dry, on the basis of the legislation that is. And if you seriously think that you want more women into leading positions in business, you have to do more than adopt different forms of quotas and resolutions. In this context, it is necessary to provide for more women to be given ownership positions and to gain relevant experience in business. As a matter of fact, this proposal should also be seen as a useful contribution by the Women's Network in the Workers' Party when they think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1704	I have to say I'm a little surprised at the representative Dahl here, when he comes up with criticism of what a committee has said when it comes to the NUFs. Did the representative sleep an hour? Didn't he get what I said? That's one question. The second is that if the Right really thinks that this is so important, that it burns like this, and that we get so little establishment of small businesses, a little bit of a look at the statistics on the establishment of small businesses in the later years. Another thing is, why didn't Right make these changes when they were in government? They have been in government for four years and have had ample opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1711	There is reason to wonder at this great wonder. The idea should be that, in fact, everything you have is spent on finding good excuses, or bad excuses, not on a sensible proposal. With regard to the comitology, what's to be amazed at there is that a party that ran throughout the election campaign and called for active business policy is involved in two very small comments, and not here and now will be involved in making concrete changes to the rules that make it possible for us to actually overcome the creation of all the NUFs. I would have thought that a party like the Workers' Party – tax- and tax-smooth – would be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12.ana.ud805e1718	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Since there are several people who have signed up on the list of speakers and we are already a few minutes ahead of the scheduled time for the morning meeting, the President will propose that the morning meeting be suspended now and that the debate continue at the evening meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The evening meeting is set at 9.30 a.m. 18, and it's the Odelsting meeting that's going to be the first. After the end of the meeting, the main meeting will be held. Then we'll continue with the rest of the list of speakers on case No. 9, the remaining items on the agenda and the vote.
