ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e66	The representatives Lars Sponheim and Ola Borten Moe, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Uppland County, Synnøve Branden Klemetrud, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e83	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e108	The debate on multicultural Norway, which has been going on both inside and outside the media lately, is important. It is important both from an overall cultural and art policy perspective and in relation to how we choose to deal with the major issues of cultural diversity that we, as a nation, have gradually become part of. Some of the issues can be formulated as follows: What kind of political action does it take to make this cultural diversity more visible? What kind of political tools do we see as useful in this regard? And is it important to draw an interface within the multicultural field between the autonomous art perspective and an instrumental way of thinking? Or in another way: do we have to strictly distinguish between the idea of art that is important in itself sea and art and cultural life as a tool for wild social development? One thing I would like to say first: there has been a very positive development in recent years, considering that more and more artists and cultural actors with a different cultural position than traditional Western Europeans have found a place in the different cultural arenas here to land. It has been an unparalleled pleasure – both as an artist and a cultural administrator – to be able to follow and also participate in this development. I have seen from my point of view that the audience has become more curious and also more used to dealing with a diversity within the various artistic expressions. In addition, I have also seen that such a development has made our cultural life qualitatively better. And it's a very important premise when we're going to find a way forward. Integration is a concept that comes up quickly when we talk about multicultural Norway. Then it might be okay from time to time to reflect on what that really means. Traditionally, we've thought of integration here in countries as being the other ones, the ones who come here, who have to adapt to us, our traditions and our way of being. The UNESCO report ‘Our Creative Diversity’ looks at integration with a slightly different perspective. Here we talk about human beings having an individual right to express themselves culturally from the individual's point of view. It points to a concept of integration that operates with equal cultures, where integration means mutual access to each other's culture, rather than unilateral adaptation. Such an approach to integration is also more easily based on a bridge to the autonomous art perspective, the fact that art has its self-esteem through the aesthetics and the meaning universe it constantly foreshadows. The fact that art can give us greater recognition and greater insight into the many questions of life, at least I've been convinced of it after years as an actor in cultural life. For me, therefore, it makes sense to think of art and cultural policies along two parallel, not conflicting lines: a recognition that art must insist on targeting the worldview of individual artists through a wide-spectrumed grasp of stories and images. And at the same time this: that art can communicate at its best a life experience and a view of life that can affect our lives and move our borders. Then we have at least one challenge in the cultural policy to be launched for the global era: how are we supposed to be able to expand our cultural perspective in Norwegian? What kind of tools do we have to be able to turn some wedges into e.g. the institutional art life, which is largely based on a western, eurocentric and thus quite exclusive art vision? Our whole selection practice in the arts is based on artistic discretion — which is recognised by most people. The problem is that the definition of quality within the field of art rarely reflects the entire artistic and cultural reality with which we are surrounded. Here I think we have to do something. If we really believe that art life has to expand its field of recognition, we have to consider whether to have some kind of quota or diversity rules within the systems that choose which art is worth betting on, or which artists have earned it, for example. to receive financial support. If we are to evaluate and visualize cultural expressions that refer to standards outside the Western cultural circle, we simply have to use an artistic and cultural competence that can give adequate assessments of the same expressions. That competence exists and must be defined. What is happening within the education system is also important. In 1981 we received the country's first high school education in jazz and rhythmic music at what was then the trondelag Music Conservatory. It represented in many ways a breach of a tradition which had existed until then in the field of music education, and which had had Western art music as its main professional concern. Everyone who knows Norwegian music life knows the significance of the jazz line in Trondheim for an entire generation of new musicians. Now is the time for both jazz and other arts schools to integrate new non-Western forms of expression into their professional portfolio. I am aware that many people have doubts that the traditional institutions of art and education can be able to turn around or change – heavily anchored as they are in traditions with a defined aesthetic. However, I am not sure whether it is right to say that these institutions should be shielded from the change requirements that a globalised reality would have to entail inexorably. I tend to think that precisely those institutions that have relatively sound financial frameworks should allow themselves to be more experimental and more demanding. And what's more: I think both the education and the art that is created and presented becomes qualitatively better and more interesting. At the same time, it is important to point out that not all cultural activities should fall under the traditional institutional couple. On the contrary. Much of the innovative art takes place within the free cultural field. The diversity of cultural life will also be seen here, and it will therefore be very important to strengthen the situation of freelance artists. It must also be a task to identify the many multicultural institutions and projects across the country. Important art is created and cultural work is carried out very well under the direction of, for example: the foundation Horizon, Nordic Black Theatre, Cosmopolite, led the International Folk Music Festival and the indigenous festival Riddu Riddu in Troms. There's an obvious possibility here. I think it's a dangerous way to give some of these special tasks and a special responsibility and more predictable financial framework. Cosmopolite and the Förde festival have already received a boost as national jazz scene and focal point festival respectively. Important institutions like Horizon, Nordic Black Theatre and Riddu Riddu will all be suitable for major tasks. Everyone has unique networks both nationally and internationally, and will be able to act as an artistic hub in a nationwide and international work. The government's great cultural effort, targeted by the Soria Moria Declaration and the Cultural Promise, is a very good foundation for the visibility and strengthening of the cultural diversity of which we are part. I therefore look forward to the intervention of the Minister of Culture here in the United Kingdom today, and to a hopefully engaged debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e137	There's a very important debate here on the interpellant. We have a very changing society. The usual performances and the usual concepts are challenged. We go from being a relatively homogeneous society to becoming a diverse, multicultural and multi-religious society. It's a demanding process. It's a process that challenges many of us, and that makes us have to adapt to each other in a different way than what we've done before. It's a positive process. It gives us a richer society. It gives us a more diverse and rich society. It gives us greater opportunity for experience, recognition and challenge to develop our society further. In essence, the development of society has always been about how to deal with new expressions, about new influences to meet the stranger and to learn from each other. Dialectic evolution has always shaped our different societies. The UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity of 2001 specifically addresses this and points to the diversity of our culture. Its name is, among other things, in Article 1: ‘Culture adopts different forms through time and space. This diversity is reflected in the peculiarity and diversity of the identity of those groups and societies that together make up humanity. As a source of exchange, renewal and creativity, cultural diversity is equally necessary for humanity as biodiversity is for nature. Thus, cultural diversity is the common heritage of humanity and it should be recognised and maintained for the benefit of present and future generations.» The essence of this is that we shouldn't sit on each of our tues about being defenders of our own traditions and cultural expressions. It's the diversity that's ours. It's the diversity that is our common heritage. That's why it's the diversity that we also have to take care of. Of course, we're going to develop the part of diversity that each of us represents, in many different groups that we're part of. But we also need to be defenders and cultivators of multicultural diversity. The ideal is a multicultural society, where cultures meet and develop, and new cultures are created. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will ‘make the multicultural perspective visible in all fields of cultural life and contribute to the creation of better meeting places between majority and minority cultures’. Modern societies are multicultural from scratch, and modern cultures are complex and changeable. Therefore, cultural policy must provide a unilateral national justification for a cultural life that can be both restrictive and exclusive. The aim of cultural policy shall not be to create a uniform common culture but to facilitate the development of cultural life, based on the diversity of today's cultural situation. We must ensure consistency between rhetoric and political action and ensure that the necessary strategies and measures to promote cultural diversity are actually implemented. In my view, the cultural field is one of the most important areas promoting full and qualified participation in a multicultural society. However, a prerequisite for culture to play such an integral role is that the cultural field itself is truly open and relevant to an increasingly complex population. Here, perhaps, Norwegian cultural policy has been too much influenced by unilaterally preserving and preserving old Norwegian traditions, and not so much opening up to other traditions and expressions. It's important to take care of what we might have as a unique inheritance. It is our responsibility in this diverse world to provide for it. But we also have to be aware that in our area, in our country, it is expressed different kinds of cultural forms than what we have been accustomed to. It is precisely in the interaction between these expressions that new and exciting occur. We may be particularly facing major challenges in relation to children and young people with a minority background. As a group, children and young people are much more heterogeneous than the population as a whole, especially in urban communities. In Oslo, nearly 40pst. In some parts of the city, this figure is much higher. It is slightly reflected in the field of culture. Institutions and measures at the intersection of the educational and cultural fields, such as the Cultural Schools, the Cultural Schools and the Educational Institutions, play a central role in this context. Voluntary action in local communities is also an important venue for cultural meeting places. We want to strengthen volunteering. Here, many different organisations representing different groups have their leeway. Here, many of the traditions and expressions that minority groups stand for, opportunities to develop further, to emerge and to become known to others. A strengthened local economy does not least contribute to local cultural diversity. That is what we are going to do in the years to come. However, it is important that the large national institutions take the multicultural perspective inwards. Our instruments for the exercise of state cultural policy, Norwegian Cultural Councils and ABM development are involved in several projects that contribute to, among others. documentation and dissemination of multicultural expressions, and some enterprises and institutions, such as the International Cultural Centre and the Museum and the Norwegian Folkemuseum, have for a number of years been promoting understanding and respect for cultural diversity. Libraries play a central role in education, access to information, literature and culture. I think the libraries can be a brilliant venue for the meetings between different cultural expressions that we want to stimulate. A successful measure, reinforced by the 2006 budget, is the multilingual library of the Deichman library, which provides literature and other information to minority speakers across the country. In cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge, we have also started working on a big message about languages. A comprehensive language policy today must take account of the overall language situation in the country. The notification will also address the importance of language inclusion and training for children, young people and women with a minority language background. Real equality and inclusion in the field of art have proved to be a challenging and time consuming process. We have had a long process in Norway with regard to gender equality. We have a long process ahead of us in relation to equality and equality between different ethnic groups. Too many people feel like a barrier to entering the cultural field if they do not belong to the large Norwegian majority culture but have a minority background. This is about two elements. Firstly, we need to ensure that we have a good and broad representation of the different groups in our country, in all decision-making bodies, boards, grant committees, selections, etc. Here, too – if not regulated, so at least in practice – we can use quota mechanisms to ensure that we have a broad composition in these bodies. It is a little more difficult to imagine using quotas in the field of art among artists, but also here we need to ensure that informal, possibly structural or cultural, discrimination functions are met by active incentives, networking, motivation and opportunities for development and education for artists with a minority background. We have a lot of smaller businesses, like the Nordic Black Theatre, the Mela Festival and the Big World, which have a significant competence that needs to be further developed. Based on the evaluation of the various actions, we have started to strengthen and will meet the needs of a more predictable economic framework. In addition, we have also begun to step up the funding of projects in the Norwegian cultural fund. There are means managed by the Culture Council, based on long-term strategies, to promote a multicultural society. The artistic policy is important in this context. The identification of artists' employment and income ratios will be important for us in working on a broad-based communication on artistic policy. The draft mandate also provides data on artists’ languages and minority backgrounds, precisely to strengthen the assumptions for professional activity among artists with a minority background. It is demanding to combine the broad focus of cultural policy with all the societal goals it contributes to, and an artistic policy that gives artists the freedom to communicate their thoughts and opinions and expressions, but that's what we're going to get – in a society that looks completely different than it did just a few decades ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e174	I would like to thank Minister of Culture Trond Giske for a good and satisfying answer. He came in here to say all the areas that are important for the implementation of cultural diversity. He mentioned the schools, the cultural schools and the cultural school system, which are very important arenas for reaching children and young people. He said that it is important to strengthen them also in view of measures to promote minority culture. Freedom of movement and the Free Fund system, which have also been strengthened, are good tools for this policy. I noted that the Minister of Culture presented two important actions: a big message on language — which is also about minority languages — and a wide-ranging study on the working and income conditions of artists. This will enable us to gain important knowledge of the situation of minority artists so that the right actions can be put in place. I am also pleased that the Minister of Culture mentioned the responsibilities of the professional national educational and art institutions, and that it can also be a way to provide some of the network-based smaller, multicultural institutions with a more solid economic framework. For artists in the free cultural field, the Minister of Culture naturally points to the Norwegian Cultural Fund and the Cultural Fund as a tool for the follow-up of the Norwegian Cultural Council to his own multicultural development programme Mosaic, which was concluded a few years ago. Finally, I would like to comment on the emphasis of the Minister of Culture on the field of archives, libraries and museums and on the responsibility there for the dissemination of minority cultures. It is particularly important here that women and children's lives and stories are expressed. In this connection, I would like to draw up the small museum Perspektive Museum in Tromsø, which has set itself the goal of documenting our contemporary and close past. Some time back, you went out of the museum to find some of the women from the 120 nations represented in the Icelandic city. It resulted in a beautiful exhibition under the heading «My Theme – My History», with a large number of national and regional folk themes, created by women from the same areas. The exhibition followed stories about the origins of themes, with evidence of women's knowledge and competence through generations. The exhibition at the Museum Perspective became a picture of the often hidden culture that women manage. One of the really big challenges for our time is therefore to make women's voice heard in general in the cultural arenas, and not least in the multicultural field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e185	For me, the question of multicultural Norway is about many things at once. One goal is to make a diverse society work, that we get leeway for all the different expressions a diverse society actually has. It is about building up among the different organisations representing, in particular, the different minorities, as the majority of those belonging to it are well covered by many national cultural institutions. It's about letting different groups build their identity around their cultural expressions. It's about getting different groups to know each other's cultural expressions. It's about letting these cultural expressions and traditions meet, mold each other and stimulate each other. But it is also about how artists and cultural workers belonging to different ethnic groups should actually have an equal opportunity to participate in national cultural life and have the opportunity to express themselves regardless of whether they are based on the person’s ethnic background or not. Because just as you have to have full freedom to represent the group to which you are a member of skin color or culturally, you have to have full freedom to break out of it and express something completely different. So that freedom of diversity, not just for one minority or four-five minorities, but for thousands of different groups or identities we have in a diverse society, we must strive. Then putting people in different booths – majority, minority I, minority II, minority III – does not help us to get the unfathomable diversity of different roles we take on. Then it's also a broad perspective on how the cultural field like the arena can contribute to such a very differentiated and fragmented society being bonded together, how to get common experiences, common arenas, common attitudes, built on that we do things together around culture. In particular, children and young people are very concerned with different cultural activities and meet across different ethnic cultural/religious groups in common around many cultural activities. There are, as the interpellant says, many different institutions that can help us in this work. It is not up to either big-scale politicians or government members to say what is to be made of art or what cultural activities are to take place. We're going to create a good framework for them, and then it's the artistic freedom that, to the seventh and last, determines what we get back. Here we have so many good and strong forces that we have more than enough to play on if we're willing to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e196	In Oslo, nearly 40pst. In some parts of the city, this figure is much higher than that of primary school students. Thus, a lot of nationalities are represented, and the students are the bearers of cultural diversity that can enrich our society if we know our visitation time and facilitate this diversity to flourish. The Norwegian multicultural society creates opportunities: it allows us to expand our knowledge, understanding and understanding, to become acquainted with new forms of cultural expression and the possibility of common meeting places that can provide the basis for new forms of artistic expression, as we do. has seen it through the development of music and dance. However, the multicultural society also imposes common responsibilities — responsibility for giving children and young people the opportunity to understand and identify with their roots, thus providing the necessary security for innovation. The need for cultural identity applies to everyone, both to the minority and to the majority. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child stresses this by saying that education of children should be intended, inter alia: ‘developing respect for the child’s parents, its own cultural identity, language and values’. This obligates. Unfortunately, it must be said that to a small extent these obligations have now been made visible through appropriations or through the organisation of the necessary infrastructure for cultural development. Today, we have multicultural environments that contribute to identity building, provide artistic experiences, have cultural and artistic skills and help build new skills through education, training and recruitment of new cultural workers. I think here, among other things. on environments such as Nordic Black Theatre and their theatre school, the Horizon Foundation and the Mela Festival, the Big World!, the Utrop minority newspaper and the Writing Workshop for Minority Youth. The common thing for all of them is that they're struggling with economics, struggling to find places to be and having pay and working conditions that are only adapted to idealists and the truly revolutionary patient. On the contrary, I think it is through the project that several of these institutions are now trying to realise – a project they have called Snelda – a centre in Bjørvika for cultural diversity. This vision not only says something about progress, but also tells about a clear need for an infrastructure, a meeting place for the diversity of our country. In the field of sport, too, there is a lack of infrastructure for multicultural sport Norway to be developed. Sports activities that have not been traditional Norwegian, such as: cricket, basketball and land hockey, missing lanes, wardrobe space, clubhouses, etc. We also have to do something about this if we want to take care of and develop the multicultural sport Norway and thus also create an even more exciting sports environment. The government has committed itself to a cultural promise, a stepping up of the cultural effort to 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. In order to further stress that the cultural effort is not only a part of the celebrations, the Government has committed itself to promoting a cultural law expressing public responsibility for the cultural field. Cultural diversity has not yet been sufficiently visible through cultural appropriations, but with the Government’s cultural effort, we can do something about it – through increased appropriations, by improving the working conditions of artists, by strengthening the infrastructure of cultural life and through a new cultural law, which also serves the interests of multicultural Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e213	When a working party politician asks questions to a Labour Party Council, we are hoped that the answer will not come as a shock. But with the sitting government, we know that you never quite know. We have seen that the Government in several cases has at least two different opinions on the same matter. In this case, however, it seems that one agrees, at least between the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party. Then we're going to have to wait for SV and the Center Party. Enough about it – for the matter: multicultural Norway. I can see that there are two central points in this interpolation. Firstly, there is the demand for more money from public budgets for foreign cultural actions, particularly in the case of non-Western cultural expressions, and secondly the claim that this could lead to better communication and integration. I have absolutely no faith that there's a context here, and it's based on two reasons. First of all, we've already tried this. At national level, we have allocated money to multicultural festivals, to actions and to businesses like You Big World!, Nordic Black Theatre, Mela, etc. We also have native language training, we have research and investigation around the multicultural, and we've allocated millions to anti-racist organizations. Locally in my own home town of Drammen, which is the town of Norway with the second most immigrants, we have tried to allocate money to immigrant centres, multicultural cultural houses, African folk dance, Turkish associations' cultural markers, immigrant youth activities, swimming courses for immigrant women, etc. Nevertheless, we have a deep gap between the North and the Immigrants, and scepticism is growing. Among the immigrants, we have a high level of unemployment, we have a high consumption of social security and social assistance, a great deal of crime and reproduction. We see no tendency to integrate the people's groups, for example. by marriage. We have a lot of female oppression, we have significant problems with coercive poisons and very little participation in common social and cultural arenas. The second central reason why I don't have faith in this is that the gap between our culture and the potential immigrants is too large. There is a sea of difference between our Western modern culture based on democracy, equality, freedom and Christian fundamental values and many of the cultures of immigrants, which are largely linked to Islamic freedom, coercion, discrimination against women and the rule of priests. This was very clearly expressed, for example. when it comes to the debate on cartoons, drawings that we live in Norway, do not normally raise the eyebrows when we see them in the newspapers every day, but which resulted in violence, burning embassies, threats and boycotts. I also think it is frightening that Muslims in Norway did not take a clearer view of freedom of expression. But they weren't alone. Both the Government and the majority of the Norwegian press swept into that matter. So what can we do? What we can do is tightening up immigration for those who are here is better integrated than what they are today. We can stop the constant import of spouses. We can fight violence and coercion against women. We can say no to all transfers to special measures for immigrants in the cultural sector. The Progress Party believes that immigrants must participate in the same arenas as the Norwegians. You have to enter the sports laws, you have to enter the corps, the choirs, the art associations, the festivals and the theatres. The road is to go through this and not through special measures and quotas, as the government obviously emphasizes. We believe that the result of such a policy that we are sketching will be an increased understanding of Norwegian culture and society, and that we will have common arenas that can contribute to the integration of immigrants into our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e228	I would like to thank the interpellant, who has raised a very important debate. It is a long way to go before cultural diversity is a basic premise of Norwegian art and cultural policy. There are power structures that exclude artists with a minority background from the Norwegian art and cultural scene, and there are power structures that marginalise the many cultural expressions that are not visible in the public. Cultural diversity means providing space for all the different voices, stories, all the identities, all the art and cultural expressions of both the minority and majority populations on an equal basis. Cultural diversity means that minority artists have to make their own premises, not as a multicultural alibi or a dash of exotic spices, and that audiences with both a majority and a minority background experience a greater diversity of expressions. It will enrich Norwegian art and cultural life, because art and culture have always evolved in encounter with the unknown, what is different, what challenges our identity – in other words, a sharp contrast to this view than that of the Progress Party, as stated in the introduction to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen. Providing space for cultural diversity is important from a freedom of expression point of view, that individuals have the opportunity to express themselves through art and culture. It is a right to have access to art and culture that is meaningful for each one of us – what hits the familiar in us, our experiences. So do the minorities here in the country. This is why it is important that cultural diversity is reflected in the cultural school, in the cultural school system and in education. Most of us are now so connected that we start with the familiar, with the traditional, and expand our competence from there. Teaching in tabloid games, performing arts from Pakistan and African dance in many more cultural schools must therefore be an objective and must be encouraged. Art and culture expressions from many countries in public space are important in the inclusion work, because cultural life speaks to our feelings, where the fear of the unknown lives, as we also hear in contributions from the Progress Party. When we, both the majority and the minorities, experience each other's cultural expressions in public space, we will understand each other and recognise each other and have respect for each other. In this work we must have a multicultural strategy, that is. own arrangements and measures for the many cultural expressions that are marginalised today for groups that fall outside. It requires strengthening the institutions and organisations that have taken initiatives from below and have done a great job. Many of them have worked for a long time without giving up, with small amounts of money as a grant. Now is the time to give them a boost: larger operating grants, which can make predictability more predictable. But we also need a strategy for cultural diversity, that it should be reflected in the general cultural life of the institutions, a strategy to meet the power structures that marginalise. We have to be willing to quota into boards, councils and boards, because that's where the premises are put. Curators, producers and directors with a minority background will have the competence to bring in more votes and expressions. We need to consider ear-marked aspirin and scholarship schemes. I would like to strike a blow for cooperation with the arts and artists in the countries from which the minorities come. The festival Mela is such a successful project, which must be allowed to live on. Not only has Mela mobilised new audiences, namely the Pakistani population of both sexes and generations, the festival has also created an interaction situation in which majority culture and minority culture have entered into an equal and innovative dialogue. Finally, I would like to suggest a virtue that can go over a few years, a virtue that can give room to more, responsible the institutions and do something about our attitudes towards the minority artists and towards their expressions, a multi-annual effort across the country with participation from many environments, so that we can celebrate 2014 in the spirit of Wergeland. Then finally I will quote Mahatma Gandhi. He said, "I don't want my windows to be blinded, or have walls around my houses. I want every country's culture to blow as free as possible. But I refuse to let myself blow over." There is no contradiction between working for multicultural diversity and being proud of its own tradition and its own history and identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e252	I thought it was a great interpellation Tove Karoline Knutsen has drawn up here today. The lack of cultural impulses today is clearly marked by the fact that we are living in the age of globalisation. Thus, the aesthetic diversity is expanded, both by the emergence of several forms of expression side by side, and by the emergence of new forms of expression in which different traditions melt. This is in many ways positive. International impulses within art, fashion, film, music and sport can form a common culture for children and young people with a wide variety of backgrounds and geographical location and thus act as a glue in a multicultural society. But it also presents challenges. Today's children live in a visually saturated culture, and should thus have good intentions to live into and understand visual cultural expressions of many kinds. But there are many aspects of art at the same time that are about knowledge and experience, which can be learned. This dimension of art and cultural communication is what we can call the ‘education project’. Through teaching, children will have some tools to interpret the cultural signals they surround themselves with daily, and learn to reflect independently on the cultural expressions they meet. Promoting cultural diversity is a key objective of cultural policy in the future. Such a key objective represents a fundamental perspective turn of cultural policy and, as I see it, is a vital consequence of social development. This must also have consequences for the economic needs. Until now, cultural policy in Norway has been closely linked to national construction and a gender-oriented welfare policy. A central legitimisation of cultural policy has in the past been the promotion of a distinctive national identity anchored in a common national culture. The Culture Communication explains how the various dimensions of globalisation, not least increasing immigration, have contributed to the challenge today of the ideals of equality and national integration of new forms of inequality. Future cultural policy must turn its perspective away from the constructions of a single common culture and facilitate the development of culture based on the diversity that characterises Norwegian society and the cultural situation today. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that a wide range of creative, practicing, documentary and mediating efforts from all parts of the cultural field are a valuable counterweight to the uniquely different commercial forces in society. It is important to develop skills and disseminate experience from projects where cultural diversity is a topic. In order to strengthen cultural diversity in the arts and culture of children and young people, the Norwegian Cultural Council has prioritised applications involving artists or children and young people with a minority background. Cultural activities aimed at facilitating the dissemination of art and culture to this group of children and young people have also been given priority. Since the 1980s, many cultural measures have been implemented which have widened the gap in Norwegian cultural life. Many of the interventions are anchored in different minority settings. There are several activities with footholds in these environments that have produced and disseminated music, theatre views, art exhibitions, etc. for many years. But many experience economic challenges and depend on individuals who are fires. This is what's important to grips with. Some state institutions have worked actively to incorporate expressions originating from different parts of the world, both in the ordinary business itself and as separate bets. However, the cultural diversity of Norwegian society is only slightly reflected in the institutionalised cultural field. Many artists with a minority background experience either being ignored or being reduced to exotic features alongside the main cultural stream. It varies from just starting to just starting to what extent such a lack is incorporated on equal terms, and to what extent it is willing to do so. Music areas, especially certain genres, are very open to different traditions and forms of expression. In other parts of cultural life, on the other hand, it has proved difficult to build up an inclusive hold in terms that originate from traditions other than the Western. I think the time has come to say that cultural diversity makes it more richer in traditional Norwegian culture, and does not pose any threat, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e273	The centre party is in favour of measures that increase the lack of cultural expression. Cultural diversity is a good thing in itself. It may be natural to refer to the cultural message where it says: ‘In meetings between cultural impulses of different origins, there will usually be a dynamic of its own that will be able to create a whole new cultural expression and give rise to a new cultural identity.’ That's good writing. By allowing several artists with a non-Western background to implement and present their projects, we are simultaneously opening up more understanding across ethnic differences. People with a minority background are currently a large and inseparable group in this country. This has so far been too little expressed in art and culture. Opening up and encouraging a larger section of non-Western art is both a good cultural policy and a good integration policy. The fact that artists with a minority background are struggling with penetration may have several reasons. There may be a lack of competence on the part of the art intermediaries and they may be responsible for the distribution of scholarships and project support. This may be part of the explanation of what the interpellant points to. But there may also be an expression that there is a need for more professionalization of the artists themselves. Here, educational institutions have a responsibility, but more important than instructing institutions is to support the recordings, activities and projects that come from the artists themselves. Although many of the challenges are common to artists with a minority background, it is also important to note that not all of the challenges are the same. For example, there may be different challenges within different arts and culture sectors. It seems that one has come further within music and dance than within art and theatre. It is important to support those organisations that work to promote cultural diversity. It is important that the multicultural projects be seen, not as special measures, but as an integral part of the same cultural life. The goal of the Center Party is to allow minority artists to express themselves on their own premises, and their actions become a natural part of the art and cultural life. Until that happens, targeted measures aimed at minority artists are needed. The centre party would therefore stress that it is important to keep up the path that is directed towards cultural deprivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e291	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. I must honestly admit that I was actually a little disappointed by the Council of State for a little lack of offensive answers, because the interpellant is from the party of the Council of State, and especially when one knows that there are so many representatives in this Chamber from the government parties who have been involved in this field. For me as a liberal, the starting point of this field is that you want to use the artists who can help raise the Norwegian community with better quality in Norwegian art. Just as you want to use women because women have been underrepresented in a number of areas of society, I think this half of the population can contribute something. I also think we're losing a lot of quality because we don't use those artists that have a different cultural background. No nation has grown up just to grow one's own, no matter how far you look back. It's not just about modern society. Soul tyrants like Kublai Khan were capable of always having representatives from all the different cultures represented in their nation around them in their closest circle in order to be able to build a great nation. All major societies, all major cultures, all those who have had a certain position in history, have not gained that position by cultivating their own, but by meeting other cultures with an open mind and developing their own communities on the basis of it. What's strange in the Norwegian cultural expression in this context is that it's in the commercial field that you've been most capable of absorbing the multicultural artists. The National Theatre is so to say free from actors with a different cultural background, while in the Norwegian soap operas it is that the multicultural actors have really got to the test. While in the large, heavy Norwegian ensembles it's almost white, it's the world music that's at the top of the sales list, so when I was at the Plate Company this weekend. It shows that the commercial field has been much more capable of taking on the multicultural than the large, heavy, somewhat difficult-to-reach Norwegian institutions have done. That's why I've come to turn these institutions around, I think maybe we can't do with our usual governance mechanisms, and instead we should lift the multicultural institutions in terms of grant support. These are things like Cosmopolitt, Nordic Black Theatre, Mela, IKM, and I'm very happy that the Workers' Party's representative lifted the 'Fast'. If we are able to get into a project like the ‘Fast’ project, we are really able to get a boost for those institutions that allow them to be a counterweight and be able to develop the cultural expression in Norway. The problem with these institutions is that they are largely dependent on a single fireman who has been doing this all year long. They are far from the usual level of Norwegian subsidies. While we see that they are getting easier from other sources of funding, Norwegian cultural bureaucracies and Norwegian cultural politicians have been looking for this particular field. I was also somewhat disappointed at the previous budgetary procedure that the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left for an addition to these institutions did not get a majority. It would unfortunately go out on the test-world in the rally, but for the three parties it was more important to lift these institutions than to make sure that the test-world in the rally got so much money. I'm sorry the majority didn't agree with that. I don't think we can go in for purely quota, but I think we need an active recruitment policy. I am glad that the Council of State is notifying me of a language message, and I hope that he will also take the multilingual perspective of that message into account. So it's weird that the more we go into this field, the more we learn about inequalities, the more like we become, the more similar we are to each other, and the more similarity we see in the different cultural expressions. I've learned from a Norwegian urdu poet that his «gassal» is very similar to the European sonnet, on which Shakespeare was so good, and it shows that the more you dig, the more knowledge you get, and the more you take an interest in this field, the less the world becomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e313	The Progress Party programme says that we want a free and independent cultural life. If we had, I don't think it would have been a problem to promote the diversity of Norwegian cultural life. I have a picture on my wall of a second-generation immigrant who has done quite well without state support. He has received support, insofar as it is supported to be allowed to learn at Odd Nerdrum. I have also produced Norwegian music that is recorded by immigrants in Norway. So what's really the problem? Is there a problem at all? Or are we politicians who construct problems that don't exist at all? Now we heard the representative from the Left mention that commercial sectors in cultural life have actually managed to catch this up. And that's the exact same thing I'm trying to say, because I have both pictures and music. So is there really any problem? There are a number of measures supported by the State, which also include those cultural expressions that do not refer to a Western cultural circle. But I would strongly warn against quotaing representatives from non-Western cultural expressions into councils, boards and selections. I don't think that'll solve the problem. We have tried that, as we heard earlier, and it has not worked. We actually have a cultural diversity in Norway – it's just looking around! It dries and crawls, it dances and is played on every street corner, and there's a whole bunch of festivals. It started in April, and it's going to continue completely in September-October with a lot of different actions. We have given money to a diverse cultural life. They've mentioned Mela, you big world! etc. And if immigrant children want to participate in voluntary teams and organisations in Norway, there is no problem. They are accepted with open arms. Sports-Norway doesn't ask where you're from. They're happy to have a child or a youth with them. The problem is often that parents hold them back. Our cultural heritage is to be preserved. If we don't have our roots, we have no future either. The virtue of which the representative, Valle, speaks, must primarily be that the cultural elite, the state paid cultural elite, discuss between themselves whether they are willing to share State aid with others, and with more. And in the case of the Progress Party, against which the SV representative came with a hard shot, we actually have nothing to be ashamed of. Document No The 8th proposal that we have promoted in the last enlargement period has contributed to 400 million in both the cultural school system, the whole of public culture and a whole host of voluntary teams and organisations. kr in fresh means. The difference between us and the other parties is that we don't make problems that don't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e331	I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this debate today. That this is an important debate, shows the commitment here in the hall. The Minister of Culture stressed the importance of not placing each other in booths, of not talking about ‘us’ and ‘the others’, but of having access to each other’s culture, which UNESCO is calling for in its concept of integration. Most of those who have been to the pulpit today point to two things: culture gives us arenas where we can meet with pride, joy and curiosity, and where the fear of the stranger might be kind of driven back, for all parties. And the second: the cultural life of the nation improves qualitatively through diversity. Many today have said that this must be reflected in allocations to cultural life in general and to minority cultures in particular. So these are the possibilities that are pointed out today, and not primarily the problems. I get a little sad when I hear Ulf Erik Knudsen. I was just at the Drammen conference and experienced all the positive things in the cultural field there, not least in the multicultural. But if the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen does not have the power to see what is happening in the home town, I would like to invite him to Tromsø, where cultural arenas have formed the basis for creating art, friendship and love, for that matter. I will finally tell the Storting a true story, a story from reality. Six years ago, the first summer of the new millennium, the party games in North Norway – which I then led – had a Palestinian artistic mark. It was in every way a success, both public and artistic. On the last day of the Festival the Sami group Transjoik stood on stage together with the Palestinian Sabreen and let notes from the joic mix with the sound of the Arabic lute. And all of a sudden it happens: the Sami musician Frode Fjellheim and the Palestinian singer Kamilya Jubran have found a common melodic fabric, a beautiful little bench wool that Frode and Kamilya had learned from their respective grandmothers, and that now sounds out to us in the hall. That's how it happened that night we got to experience the incredible, that two mothers on each of their edges of the globe instinctively have found the exact tune that can beat the kid in sleep. And that's how I'm convinced that meeting with art isn't primarily about taking up the wallet and buying what you know you want, but that art often comes to us unexpectedly, maybe stranger, and in a way we hadn't at all thought. It must be at the heart of the art and cultural policy we are going to pursue, which must have respect for, and visibility of, diversity as one of its most important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e348	I also thank you for a good interpellation debate. It seemed as if the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen thought it was the questioning strategy, but it is not. There is an inter-pelling debate, and of course, government parties have the same opportunity as others to raise such debates. There is, of course, a joint action, which we should be bringing together across political divides. We know from our own lives the value of political diversity – that there are different expressions, different experiences and different points of view that lead to the development of one another’s views and that lead to better results for all. This is what we want to achieve in other areas of society, and not least in cultural life – that diversity emerges and that it has good framework conditions. I appreciate the relatively broad consensus that it is in Stortingen on the objectives that we have set ourselves in the Soria Moria Declaration, in the Government Declaration and in other documents, and hope that that support will be expressed even when we come to the concrete measures. We have many different measures on the bed, and we will come back to that in a short time and on different occasions. But let me just get to the point that the representative from the Left took up on the budget. Well, it's easy to spend money that's been found in retrospect, but the budget we provided after the government change had a larger and more extensive focus on multicultural measures than the previous government put forward before it went off. The fact that other funds are used differently after the adoption of the budget framework is, with the budgetary system we have in the Grand Duchy, perhaps not exactly the right procedure to arrive at the political differences. I also have to say that I understand the way of thinking, that the more we meet and the more we do things together, the more we see that we are similar. But the purpose of a diverse, multicultural cultural life should not be that we become more equal. On the contrary, it should be that we should cultivate the differences, get the differences – we should enjoy the differences, irritate ourselves over the differences, be stimulated by the differences and be challenged by the differences. That's what the multiplicity is all about. We can learn from each other, which we like, which we find completely incomprehensiblely different – and that is what is stimulating and important. There are ‘problems that do not exist’, says Karin S. Woldseth. Well, I think for many minority artists, Norwegian cultural life is difficult to get into. For many with different narrow expressions, it is perceived as difficult to find good living conditions, and for those of us who want diversity, cultural life is still perceived as one-sided, focused on the vast majority culture and on traditions. It is important to take care of, but it is also important to go into a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e363	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e381	‘If we are to be able to maintain and further develop a living democracy in Norway, it is crucial that we have a common national language that is used in a good, clear and appropriate way. A well-functioning national language is also important for security, efficiency and resource use in all areas of society.’ This is a quote from the summary of the study ‘Norwegian in a hundred!’ prepared by the Language Council. The investigation has been carried out by a separate group set up by the Language Council. To begin with, the summary states: ‘The existence of Norwegian as a language is not trusted today. When we look at how the entire Norwegian community today is based on Norwegian languages, we see it as very unlikely that Norwegian will disappear in the overcrowded future. However, important areas of society may be lost to English. In these areas, therefore, action needs to be taken.’ One area in which Norwegian language can be lost is as a professional language, as an academic language. It is not just the language board's investigation that calls for a warning. Last week a professor’s appeal was published, in which more than 200 professors, mainly in the humanities and social sciences, protested against a system that stimulates writing and publishing in English because it gives greater financial outlay to institutions. The University of Oslo has had its own study on language policy at the university. The committee was specifically to assess the principles which the University of Oslo should use in terms of language use in education, the use of English as an internal working language and its own efforts in developing learning material in Norwegian. The background was, among other things, to assess how universities should play their role as a heavy Norwegian cultural institution. They concluded that the general principle is that Norwegian should be the main language of teaching at the University of Oslo. There is also reason to recall that this was the wording of the old university law. This provision removed the majority – against the SV’s will – when the new law was passed. In addition, they conclude that the University has a responsibility to maintain and develop Norwegian as a professional language. What they stress with this is that Norwegian should continue to be the domain language for higher education and research. It is the principle that the university should be the central supplier of premiscuous competences for society and business by maintaining the necessary prerequisites for Norwegian cultural identity and a functioning democracy. This is good. However, it also shows that a policy covering the whole sector should now be developed. It's our job to create general principles, which then need to be clarified by the individual institution. The University of Oslo has taken responsibility, but legal provisions will clarify and make the entire sector aware. It will also have a governing role in the adoption of a framework for the activities of institutions. There is reason to believe that with a legal provision, the weighting in the funding model would have looked different. It is not easy to accept that a textbook written in Norwegian by a professional, for use at the university, should give lower counts than an article written in English, even if it is in a reputable international journal. As I perceive the professorship, this is their specific concern. But behind this is a concern about what can happen to Norwegian as a professional language and as an academic language. I want to use some numbers to illustrate the development of scientific literature. In 1998, the turnover of college and university textbooks was about 170 million. kr. In 2005, turnover fell to 152 million. kr. If we convert this to today's dollar value, that corresponds to a decrease from approximately. 200 million. 1998 kr. It's a real reduction of barely 25 pst. We find the corresponding decrease in the number of copies sold. In 1998, 930,000 copies were sold for higher education and university education. In 2005, sales were reduced to less than 700,000 copies, i.e. more than 230,000 copies. Consequently, Norwegian students buy about 25 pst. fewer Norwegian trade books than they did in 1998, and this happens while the number of students is about the same. So we are experiencing a sharp decline in the production of Norwegian literature and a strong increase in the turnover of English literature. The previous government turned its back on the Norwegian book industry in a irresponsible way. The need to maintain the prices of higher education vocational books was never properly discussed. It was not reflected that a number of EU countries have gone in a completely different direction than we have done in Norway. Country-by-country decisions have been taken on fixed-price laws to protect freedom of expression and national culture. It is obvious to all those concerned with education and the level of knowledge in society that quality depends on the further development and stimulation of Norwegian literature within established genres, within new and old genres, on paper in books and journals, and through different digital formats. The Norwegian scientific literature contains results and experience from the overall research conducted in Norway. It contains both the texts written by Norwegian researchers for each other and their international colleagues, and the texts written by Norwegian researchers to familiarize us all with the results and challenges of research. Without a rich and high-quality scientific literature, we will not have access to Norwegian texts that tell us in a credible way about the rapid development of biotechnology, and the ethical problems this important research faces. Without a Norwegian scientific literature, we will not be familiar with the discussions about the international struggle for the world's energy resources, and they are waging wars and conflicts. School textbooks are at the heart of the school’s knowledge dissemination and a necessary condition for students’ work to develop into reflective people in a complex and unforeseeable society. It is through the literature that the issues that are dealt with daily and concisely in the news coverage of the press are presented and discussed in depth to those who are seeking insight. Through biographies, essay collections, travel descriptions, historical presentations and debate books, an arena is given for the more thoughtful change of words on the public scene. The intellectual and professional challenges facing Norwegian society in the age of globalisation cannot be solved by neglecting one of the most important tools we have to meet these challenges. Norwegian-language literature needs to be further developed and strengthened if we are to be the prominent knowledge nation that we want to be – and which we also want to say we are. Overall, the challenges are such that an inquiry into the position of scientific literature is necessary. Only such an investigation can identify the whole field and identify the instruments that should be used to ensure and develop policy in this area. As I see it, this will be a natural follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, where the Government promises to renew Norwegian literature policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e411	Norwegian professional language is important. I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that a weakening of Norwegian as a professional language would be a problem for democracy. In general, with increasing internationalisation of jobs, education and research, this is an important topic. Therefore, a readiness and awareness of language choices are necessary. In other words, there is a need for a language policy. The government will therefore present a comprehensive communication on a comprehensive language policy in 2007, which will also provide a wide range of professional languages. I believe that universities and colleges must be among the foremost in using, defending and developing Norwegian languages. I am therefore pleased with the commitment we see, among other things. through the propaganda of Norwegian researchers in the evening post a few days ago, and so that we get discussion and attention, so that we can find good solutions. There is also an exposure at institution level. The University and Higher Education Council has set up a working group to submit proposals for a language policy at universities and higher education institutions by 1 June 2006. In his question about this suspension and the concerns about the position of the Norwegian language within the Academy, the representative Rikvam is expressed there. I agree that this is a real challenge. At the same time, the approach of the University of Oslo points to another challenge: In order to communicate with other researchers and disseminate knowledge to research environments around the world, Norwegian researchers need a high level of competence in English and other foreign languages. We have to remember that Norwegian research is 0.4 pst. of the world's total research. This means that almost all research takes place in other countries and that almost all research results are published in languages other than Norwegian. Much of this research is available and forms an international knowledge base. We want Norwegian research to be tested in leading international trade unions, to contribute to international knowledge building and to be accessible to others. At the same time, we need to participate in international research in order to benefit from other people's research and knowledge. But perhaps the most important thing we have to take with us is that communication with researchers from other countries — in languages other than Norwegian — is essential for carrying out research of high international quality. Without such communication, Norwegian research will be confused and irrelevant, as will Norwegian technical languages. The individual researcher and the individual professional community have the freedom to choose the language in which they wish to publish, including: From whomever you want to reach, what professional discussions you want to participate in, what professional environments you want to fit in with and your own professional level. Norwegian researchers must communicate with the international research world. It is equally important that Norwegian researchers transmit results to the public outside universities and higher education institutions. We must have a professional terminology that can convey Norwegian and international research to people in a good way. This is important both for the legitimacy of research in the population and not least as a democratic principle. I think scientists most think best in their own language. The language has an impact on the thinking itself. Without good Norwegian concepts and professionalism, we weaken the ability to develop knowledge. The ability and ability to express itself needs to be developed both in Norwegian and in what is the international language of research, namely English. The funding system for universities and higher education is an important instrument. However, relatively small funds are redistributed through the research component – 9 per million of the total budget for universities and higher education are linked to the indicator of scientific publication in the 2006 budget. Preliminary figures and calculations may indicate that the budgetary changes for 2007, given the continuation of the volume of pot to be redistributed, will for most institutions be less than 0,1 pst. of the budget. Scientific publication is one of the most important results of research. The number of scientific publications is therefore used as one of several indicators in the research component of the funding system. The number of scientific publications and the quality of the channels of publication at the level of the institutions give a disaggregation, i.e. the number of scientific publications and the quality of the channels of publication at the level of the institutions. the journals and editors publishing monographs and antologies. The development of the indicator for scientific publication has taken place in close cooperation with the research communities through the University and Higher Education Council and the Ministry of Knowledge. However, the professional assessments are carried out exclusively by the professional community itself. It is therefore not correct, as some have stated, that publication in English is given priority over Norwegian. It is research and the quality of research that is rewarded. We must recognise that we may not have reached out to everyone with the correct information on how publication channels are assessed, and in this area the ministry will therefore further intensify its work. I would like to point out that the position of the University of Oslo recommends that the division into different quality levels be continued. It is obvious that when a large proportion of research takes place in other countries and is published in languages other than Norwegian, channels of publication in other languages will also constitute a majority of the best and most important. I also want to add that there are naturally big differences between disciplines. In subjects such as Norwegian, history, jus and others that are largely about Norwegian affairs, Norwegian publishing channels will often be in majority among the best and most prestigious. We want universities and colleges to take care of Norwegian as a professional language, but not least to achieve the objectives of quality and internationalisation in education and research. In some situations, these requirements may conflict with each other. However, the attitude of the University of Oslo is clear that such dilemmas need to be addressed and the role of defenders of Norwegian languages as well as the role of important research institutions. I fully agree with this conclusion, and we will work to ensure that the institutions meet both of these objectives. There are already many mechanisms that contribute to strengthening Norwegian as a subject language. Education in Norway takes place largely in Norwegian. Together with a requirement for teaching to be research-based, it implies that Norwegian researchers must maintain and develop Norwegian professional language. Scientifically appointed Norwegian institutions must also use Norwegian languages in general for the dissemination to the public through newspapers and media. Also in the more user-oriented dissemination aimed at, for example: Norwegian business and public activities are a natural choice of languages. Similarly, textbooks will often be in Norwegian. The most important factor in the survival and development of Norwegian technical languages is that Norwegian research institutions and Norwegian researchers are target-conscious in their language choices. They must be conscious when choosing languages for different occasions. There is now a process in the university and higher education sectors that shows that the topic of Norwegian technical languages is being taken seriously, and I believe that one of the best measures will be to support these processes. The Ministry of Culture will present a language notification next year. We would like to oppose the notification assessing whether universities and colleges should be given specific responsibility for developing Norwegian professional languages and whether the Ministry should require language policy documents from each higher education institution. The Ministry is working on extending the funding system with an intermediary component and has entrusted the University and Higher Education Council with the task of finding good indicators. Dissemination in Norwegian, and incentives in this area, could contribute to strengthening Norwegian as a professional language. Discernment for textbooks can be an important indicator in this context. I would like to round off some key points that are important in the further discussion on Norwegian professional language. Norwegian as a professional language is under pressure. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is a major challenge for Norwegian researchers to publish in the most important journals and thereby gain access to the best research environments. It is important not to lose sight of the overall objectives of Norwegian research, as these have been formulated among others. in the research report. Publications in English and other foreign languages have been common for a long time in many disciplines. The scientific publication indicator was not introduced until now in the 2006 budget. It should not be amended at this stage, both for predictability of the institutions and because it is too early to evaluate the effects of the indicator. However, the Ministry will follow developments very closely. A new communication component will be able to strengthen Norwegian as a professional language because in most communication contexts, Norwegian will be a natural language choice. Universities and colleges must be able to handle parallel linguistics. Institutions must ensure both Norwegian and professional language and high quality in international contexts. We need to become better and more conscious both in the management of Norwegian technical languages and in our ability to communicate with other researchers in other languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e459	I thank you for your answer. I thank you for the positive responses that were in the answer to looking at the law, especially the law of higher education, whether there is a need to enter a separate purpose paragraph or clarifications on Norwegian as a teaching language, as a general rule. Of course, it should also be possible to teach in other languages, that is not the point – the point is to give strong leadership. I thank you for that. In addition, I understood the answer so that the Council of State is interested in looking at whether to enter its own leadership in relation to the responsibility of universities and higher education institutions to develop Norwegian as a professional language. I also record that there will be a big message in 2007 on language policy – based on – I assume – the Swedish Language Council’s investigation ‘Norwegian in a hundred!’. That's good. However, I still believe that it would be right to carry out a separate investigation, possibly also a separate biggest message, about Norwegian as a professional language. The investigation ‘Norwegian in a hundred!’ covers the entire width of the Norwegian language. That's right. But if you look at the part that includes the technical language, Norwegian as an academic language, it is relatively limited – although this is a quite extensive and large area. Therefore, I would like the Council of State to say that here there is a need to make a separate investigation, get an assessment and a proper review, and then, if necessary, make a separate announcement to the Stortinget about Norwegian as a professional language. It could then be linked to any obligations that we have to impose on universities and colleges in the Law of Higher Education. I think that would be right. Symbolically, it would also be important in relation to those who are concerned about the issue, cf. Professorship, with 200 professors in humanities and social sciences. If they had gone out wider, they would probably have gotten all the professors in Norway to join in and sign on to this. So I think it's necessary to take a grip. Such an approach may be to initiate a comprehensive investigation or assessment, which may in turn lead to a separate notification. I think the Stortinget needs to discuss Norwegian as a professional language, as an academic language, regardless of what happens in other areas of the Norwegian language. I wish the Council of State would be involved. If he can confirm that he will at least look at it, I will be satisfied – even in relation to what he said about the law of higher education, I would be very pleased if I got such feedback now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e470	I thank the interpellant for a very important debate. This debate on Norwegian language is, of course, a debate that will never be finished. In an increasingly international and global world, the pressure on small language areas, such as Norwegian, is greater. At the same time, of course, we have this dilemma in which small language areas will always be in – caring for our peculiarity, caring for the important function of language both as a professional language and as an intermediary language in general daily speech and at the same time having an international horizon. So let's think about that. We're publishing 0.4 pst. of the total research of the world. That's a pretty modest number. We are totally dependent on our leading researchers and universities and colleges communicating in a language that is directed towards competent and competent professional environments internationally. That's this dilemma we're constantly facing. We will present a major report next year, in 2007, in which Norwegian as a specialist language will have a central role. We want to present this in context, because in my opinion, and here I probably don't quite share the opinion of the interpellant, I think it is very important to see the professional language together with the use of Norwegian in general. Having a discussion in Stortinget about a separate notification about Norwegian as a professional language, which is disconnected from Norwegian in general, I do not think lucky. Until the opposite is proven, we choose this approach, that having a common treatment of this is wise. It has been a long time since the Stortinget has been given such a case – overall – for treatment, and I think the Stortinget will also appreciate this opportunity to get a broad review of the various challenges we face in relation to Norwegian languages. Then we consider, of course, as I said in my main response to the representative, Rikvam, what different steps we can take in law and in other ways to strengthen Norwegian as a professional language. When I don't choose to go into the indicator that the interpellant is doing, it's because it's a pretty small part and it's been working for quite a short time. But we're now in a process of developing an indicator that is on the verge of this. There we see that Norwegian has meaning in a lot of contexts. Also, the fact that textbooks can be part of this, I think will be of great importance. With regard to the purpose paragraph – as the interpellant also noticed that I mentioned – we believe that these are different measures that together make us cope with this difficult balance sheet process. Let me just stress in conclusion that it is a terrible challenge for a small language area to care for the peculiarity and importance of language as a professional language while an increasingly large part of the world is international, and the knowledge bases are international. But we have to deal with this dilemma. That is what the University of Oslo – and various settings – now show, namely that these dilemmas cannot be overcome. You have to be conscious. And let me say that my impression is that universities and colleges are conscious of that dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e483	The challenge that the interpellant addresses is important and must be one of the closest things to come to the art of the possible. Keeping an eye on — and keeping the discussion and balancing process alive — Norwegian languages that are important for scientific language. Our language is our cultural heritage and identity, and most of us want to see it flourish, and it lives on. That is why I agree with the Council of State that this is enough a debate that will never be completely over. But there are also very many conflicts of interest if you are to use such words in such a debate. We want all the researchers who are being quoted, researchers who are/are writing with researchers outside, and we want Norwegian researchers to participate in international forums. In today's Evening Post, we can, among other things, read that if we are to achieve the 3 p.m. target for research, 15 000 new researchers are needed, and according to the Evening Post, it is going to be a huge import of researchers to achieve that goal. We want scientists with ambitions, so here it's obviously hard to reconcile all interests. The same applies to students. We want international students at Norwegian universities, and we want Norwegian students to have access to the best skills, including: through textbooks. The Council of State stated that Norwegian research amounts to 0.4 pst. – so here we actually have a quite significant challenge. In a globalised world where information is to and must flow, Norway is actually quite dependent on the information and knowledge that comes from outside. We are more dependent on this than the world is dependent on knowledge from here – and language becomes a major challenge. That being said, Norway must also be able to use it in areas where research is Norwegian-oriented, either because of its problem, subject area or other areas of Norwegian character and distinctive character. The fact that the University of Oslo went to the stage of appointing its own language selection is a good sign. How successful the follow-up will be, I dare not predict, but the issue is at least put on the map. The Oslo Committee has, among other things: pointing to today's financial system, it adds to the unfair favour of publishing in Norwegian. I also see that there is not at all a full consensus on it within the university and higher education systems, but the constant claims that publishing an article on Norwegian history in an international journal is more rewarding than in our own Historical Journal suggest that this should be considered during the evaluation of the Quality Reform. It may also be a paradox that the fear of the future of Norway as a professional language comes about at the same time as the institutions strive to give more of the teaching in English both to make it tempting for foreign students to come to Norway and to prepare Norwegian students for the future and to meet the challenges they face if they are going to study abroad. I agree with the Competition Authority that it is difficult to see the logic between the fixed price in books and the availability of textbooks in Norwegian, and I am afraid that the measures that are suggested will work against their purpose. Increased competition in bookshops has given lower prices to books. One should, of course, always have a look at the market to see how, if possible, adverse outcomes can be corrected – there may be purchasing systems, and it may be to ensure Norwegian authors conditions that ensure that books are still available in Norwegian. But a reversal of competition is not the solution. When Norwegian students buy fewer books, it is also an expression of what they choose. In business, we have the same thing. In fact, it gives some status in Norwegian business — it should also be included in such a discussion — to use English in the name of positions, which some companies depend entirely on whether or not it is an international group. So here's a lot of challenges. Finally, as a curiosity, it is tempting to recall that the Right stood completely alone when we said, in the context of the treatment of the Quality Reform: ‘The members of the Committee from the Right refer to the request from the Norwegian Language Council of 23 May 2001 to the Committee I do not have time to quote everything. [[The President clubs.]] But here the attention in the Right has been great. I think the issue is very important. It is important to have an open debate on it, and I look forward to a further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e510	The interpellant Rolf Rikvam has focused on a very important and interesting, but at the same time a very demanding challenge: ensuring the position of the Norwegian language as a professional language. From the Christian People's Party we fully agree that it is again high time to focus on this also in the political forums. Therefore, the warning of the representative of Rikvam is required at most. When this also becomes demanding, it is of course because of the inevitable fact that we Nordics need to improve in foreign languages – especially in English – in order to be able to go along with them. This is not only true in academic discussions. This is true in all international relations: in political cooperation, in business, in trade, in culture, in ecumenics — in short, in everything where information is exchanged. This isn't just important, it's necessary. There seems to be a general problem in international forums that those who master English at native level tend to dominate. People with more sluggish English are not taken equally seriously, because the level of professional precision is too low. Even highly academic professionals risk being taken to be mediocre because they do not master the language. This is the one side. The other side is that in the middle of this, Norwegian language is at risk of losing its foot fast. So the dilemma is, how can you do one thing and not let the other thing be done? Norwegian language is under enormous pressure – it has been stressed by many – of course not just within the academy. The entire media daily life contributes to English language learning gradually creeping into us. Then you can ask, is it that dangerous? The same thing happened during the Danish era, when Danish language displaced North and Old Norse. The answer to the question is: this must be countered. We don't want to go from bad to worse. Then much will be lost. The language is a supporter of our cultural identity – we can't afford to lose it. At a time when Norwegian fictional writers have their time of greatness – it’s great – we don’t have to experience that the academy is helping to break this down. Therefore, it is important to note the invitation of the Language Council: Language policy must not be confined to cultural policy.All administration and society must also be involved.We need a comprehensive language policy. So far it's not hard to agree, but how are we going to solve the dilemma? Perhaps we are right to follow the invitation of the philosopher Lars Johan Materstvedt at NTNU in Trondheim. He writes in an article in the Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association: ‘The best way to improve in English is to improve in Norwegian first.’ Materstvedt continues to write: ‘Really controlling its own language has a transfer value that is difficult to overestimate’. [[in English and other languages]] He also claims in the article: ‘If Norwegian students and staff are to have professional exchanges in English in the auditorium and in problem-based learning [[...]] Materstvedt’s recipe is that teaching must take place in Norwegian – this was also the case in the Council of State – but he does not, of course, believe that it is necessary to relax the demands and expectations of Norwegian researchers who are to assert themselves internationally. He believes on the contrary that they will do better by taking the Norwegian language seriously. The same was also – as I said – the state council. I think this is an important point. As the situation has developed, we may be right to admit that when dealing with law on universities and colleges, it was unfortunate to omit the requirement that lectures should be held in Norwegian. This should probably be reconsidered. I agree that it is very good if there is already a process in the university and higher education system in order to strengthen Norwegian in the professional discussions and in the development of the subjects. Interpellant Reikvam points out that the funding model of universities and the way it is practised are unfortunate, and that it stimulates writing scientific works in English because Norwegian textbooks are weighted too low. This could probably be a point. I agree that the Council of State and the Department must take this into account, but in reality the problem goes deeper than it did. It is primarily about raising awareness of attitudes and about mentality within academia – as in society too. Therefore, the Language Council's call for an overall strategy is timely. At a time when Norwegian literature and culture are developing in many ways, we should seize the opportunity and get the same thing in the scientific field. The claim that skills in Norwegian are an important prerequisite for reaching a high level of professional competence should not be considered and explored at least. The question is, should we have one general investigation or notification of this? A lot speaks for it, because this is related. I don't think one thing contradicts the other. [[President clubs]] You could probably do both, but the perspective has to be general. It is asked whether there should not be an investigation specifically for this area. [[President clubs]] So far the Christian People's Party supports the view of the interpellant Rikham. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e563	The President must ask that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e566	First of all, I would like to commend the representative Rolf Reikvam for bringing this issue up. It's very important. Before I begin, I will hurry to say that it is of course important to master English. This debate can quickly become a debate against English, and that is not the point. I'm already saying it right now, because all too often I hear that we don't have to be such natives that absolutely don't want to use English. That's not what this is all about. The thing is bigger than that. Norwegian is a minority language in the world, and it's a cultural task to take care of it. Language is identity. The person who knows the sea is also familiar with his own language – and is therefore safe on the sea. And whoever is safe on himself is not afraid of others. Good language policy is therefore also important in the fight against discrimination. On Saturday, the National Church Forum was launched. In this regard, author Edvard Hoem said that the school, the church and the state must work together to take care of the language. It's a wake-up call. In the academy, the research is in the high-seat. Research is international. It's a struggle to get big research projects, and it's a struggle to get its results published internationally – i.e. in English. The greatest thing a researcher can experience is having an article published in a recognised foreign journal. For a researcher on e.g. The University of Environment and Life Sciences, UMB, at Ås, an article in ‘Nature’ means a lot. It's not just going to give prestige, it's going to give money. The reward system at universities is such that you are rewarded for different activities. The money controls the activity. The institution receives money for the number of graduates, for postings in newspapers, etc., but most importantly for writing an article in a recognised English-language journal. This as systematics can quickly give a cultural policy impact page; it pays off simply to use English. That this is unintentional, it hardly makes it better. Let me illustrate with a point. If the great Norwegian scientists had lived today, the picture might have looked like this: Sverre Steen might not have spent so long and many forces on his great history. We older people remember the radio readings of «Long became our own country». He would get significantly more money if he had written a three-page article in «Science». It is hardly right to attack that researchers are rewarded for their international articles, but one should be able to adjust the work done in Norwegian. The Minister of Knowledge should take a closer look at that. The Minister of Culture should also be interested in that. Akademia does not conduct any cultural policy – they conduct research! They're looking for the best, they say. This is left to the individual researcher and the individual teacher. In fact, it's the teachers who choose the subject of their studies. We find that they more often choose English textbooks. For example, in the UMB, the proportion of English textbooks has increased from 40 pst. to 60 pst. of the total book sales over the last four to five years. It's a dramatic turn. So the question is, is it just because English textbooks are best, or is it because you think it's okay that students can also read English literature? I'm not going to say for sure about that, but it can unfortunately also be a rash of cultural political uncertainty. This is an important debate. The University of Oslo has taken the ball. They've made an investigation into language policy at the university. The University of Oslo says that the University's language is Norwegian, and that their language policy should be something like this: Norwegian at the bachelor's level and English at the master's level. This is a beginning. The whole point is that you should have your own Norwegian professional language and that it should be used in everyday life. The findings of the researchers and the discoveries of the researchers have a useful purpose, whether they are to be used for management or business purposes. In order to communicate the research results, they need to be understood. The users of knowledge are, in many respects, the general male and female in Norway. Then it doesn't make sense if we're going to have all of this in English. Therefore, more universities and colleges should take up the glove and discuss the language. The representative Rikvam has a good point when he believes that the legal text of the Law on Higher Education and Universities should be changed to the way it was. I am also pleased that the Council of State Djupedal mentioned that there will be a big message about Norwegian language, where professional language will also be given a great deal of space. This is more than cultural policy! It costs, but it's important for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e596	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative. So I just want to say here at the main hall that it's not long since the trades union committee was in the United States to look at how the Americans took care of the formation. The American 'liberal arts' tradition is an expression of the fact that American academia rates of education, general education, are absolutely crucial. It's a strength of that society, it's a strength of those institutions. That's why it's my approach to the interpellant's initiative that being able to speak, whether it's in English, that we put up to, based on all international commitments, or in Norwegian, which is our own language, is part of the defence of general education in this country, that's part of the education struggle. So it has to be that we can discuss what practical tools we have then, given the international commitments we have, to give merit to Norwegian as a research language. That's the theme. I think the interpellant is concerned about something very important, that in addition to the positive work that has been shown by others and that has taken place at the University of Oslo, we need to get a separate investigation from the Ministry of Knowledge on Norwegian as a professional language. How it gets is not crucial, but it could have been an interesting attachment to a complete investigation and a big message, as the government has announced. We must be able to expect a separate investigation, and we must be able to expect it from the department when our largest university has taken the responsibility it has done, by making a separate study on how Norwegian can be promoted as a research language. This is all possible reason to praise. If you look at the proposals that you have made, I think it's a lot to pick up there, both in connection with your own case on Norwegian language policy and in connection with the work that I just assume the Ministry of Knowledge is starting up; that they're making a proper investigation to follow up this initiative from our largest university. I agree with the Council of State that different instruments can be used. I also agree with his emphasis on the importance of rewarding dissemination. It is true that if you are a good scientist, but cannot communicate it in understandable Norwegian, there are several people who have a problem. At least the scientist has a problem. How in all the world should we be able to maintain a viable rule of the people and a democracy if we are not able to convey in a simple and clear way what we have said? Then there must be something that fails in the whole formation before you get that far. I know people can do this. I therefore choose to look at the debate today so that we, not because we are afraid of something, but because we are just living in a situation of internationalisation, want to be good at taking care of the means that enable us to manage both parts – that we are able to participate internationally, and that we are able to take care of our own language, not just as a literary language, but as a professional language. As far as merit is concerned, there have been different recordings. Dissemination is an important point. I just want to encourage the Council of State to look at how you can just reward merit in that work. I perceived it as the basic position in his post and in response to the interpellant – that was what he wanted. Then I would like to stress how positive it is that the educational institutions take responsibility themselves. It is very positive – the interpellant also underlined it – that the University of Oslo has done so. Others should follow this up. Others in our big, heavy research world must follow up the initiative taken at the University of Oslo. This should be an inspiration for following up what the University of Oslo has done in all our large, heavy research environments, because the chance of wise people making wise proposals is increasing the number of people involved in the debate. Then you don't have to have an anxiety-bitter debate. Then we will have a debate that is forward-looking and that is just progressing. It is not either – or in terms of mastering English well, or mastering Norwegian well – it is both. I've been standing on this pulpit in other contexts and I've been talking very much about the multilingual. It's quite natural to do it in this context as well. I'll finish where I started. I expect that when the Government comes back with its message, and from my and the Left's point of view with a very and comprehensive printed – or printed – appendix on the technical language, the Government sees this as part of an educational project, the project that makes it understandable in 2006 and 2007 to explain most people why it's good that you can do something about what you should be able to do, even if that's not what you've been doing in life, and that you're so humble where you can do something, that you're curious that others can do something else. The essence of the education project itself is that you can keep this perspective up. And, as I said, the committee was given strong impulses that in American higher education there is a strong willingness to keep this up. We can't be any worse here on the mountain. We've had traditions before us, we can renew them. That's what the interpellant wants with its interpellation, and the Left supports its purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e616	The Norwegian language has been under pressure for all time and is still under pressure. The Norwegian language of research is thus under pressure from English and other international languages, while our own language is currently strongly pressed by, among other things. so-called SMS abbreviations. I have problems myself to understand what my son is trying to tell me when he will speak quickly and ‘geli’ after an order from my father. And I don't know what the Norwegian Academy looks like when that generation is going to do, as the representative Dørum said, short and concisely understood in academic context. But I want to turn the problem around a little bit. There is a lot of sense from this pulpit today about Norwegian as a research language in the light of the interpellation promoted by the representative of Reikvam. At the same time, we have to recognise, and I think the Council of State was partly concerned with it in its answer, that we are 4.6 million people here on the mountain, as the representative Dørum said, and there are 4.6 million people using our language, and that is the proportion of the 4.6 million people involved in what the researchers write and publish, who read the research reports and read the research material in Norwegian. In the past, it may have been the case that there was a lot of research for Norway, targeting Norway. But it's not like that anymore. I don't even have figures on how many international research organisations Norway is a member of, and the new research trend is that it is being researched internationally. Research groups are no longer grouped together by researchers only at a Norwegian university; they are often grouped together into groups with strong international involvement. Then, in our opinion, it is important to have a good foundation for an international language formulation. 0.4 pst. by world-published research is Norwegian. I think that's illustrative enough about how important it is to make sure that we are competent in English and other foreign languages. I just want to mention in a statement that in previous years we have had a round of how early language training is to be started, not least in relation to a mandatory second foreign language, where the opposition has been very clear that it is important to have a good linguistic theme already from primary school. Unfortunately, that focus hasn't had the government, but I think there's a connection in these two questions. I also allow myself to ask a question on the upstream side: How much resources are you actually going to spend on keeping the research language in Norway? I also understand that the Council of State has notified him that he will return to the overall message related to this. I would also assume that the Council of State will come back to the use of resources in relation to the amount of resources actually going to preserve Norwegian research. Maybe this interpellation, or another interpellation, should rather be about how Norwegian researchers are going to be even better at producing their research results in English and safe language themes both in English, German and other international languages on the research page. Thus, the quality of research is often measured in the number of fissile millimetres in international research journals, and it does not help to publish Norwegian research reports in that type of magazine in Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e630	First, I would like to thank you for your commitment and participation in an important political debate. In my introduction I chose not to start a debate on English and other foreign languages at universities and colleges. It is obvious that Norwegian researchers should also use English and other languages to publish both nationally and internationally. That's not the issue. Of course, one must also have a teaching offer in English at universities. That's not the issue. The problem is how we can influence to stimulate continued writing in Norwegian, develop Norwegian technical terminology, etc. at universities and higher education institutions. That's what's the debate, in the heart -- when we get in completely -- this is really about our own identity, our own understanding of ourselves, our own culture and also our own democracy. At the moment we lose language, we also lose central parts of our own understanding of our own history and our own culture. Therefore, taking care of language, developing language, developing new terminology in areas where language development is needed is absolutely necessary and central. I also register and am very happy with the support I received that in connection with a possible cancellation notice there is a need for a comprehensive investigation about the position of the professional language. If it becomes a comprehensive supplement, as the representative Dørum mentioned, to a general survey report, or if it becomes a separate investigation for the purposes of his own survey, it is not important for me, but it is important that we get a proper review where we involve the heavy trade unions in this work. That is absolutely necessary, and we must do that. Then I agree with the Council of State that the goal is not today to change this funding system that we have chosen for universities and colleges. That's not the point. It shall be evaluated in 2007. And then we'll see how it works. The point is that we need to look at the different weights within today’s system — how the different publications should be weighted. Should a textbook — which was also included in the Council of State — be submitted and given a weighty count-out? I realized that the Council of State was concerned about that, and I am pleased about that. We're not going to take the system, but we're going to discuss how we're going to develop the system and make it better so that a prisoner picks up what some of us are busy catching up. That's what I think is important in the first place, and so – as the Council of State has already clarified and underlined – it might be relevant to look at the law. I am pleased with the support I received. There is a need to call about the Norwegian professional language and develop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e641	Let me conclude with the representative, Mr Reikvam, who said in this interpellation debate: there is a need to call about the Norwegian language as a professional language. I am pleased with the broad support the interpellant has received in Stortinget to focus on this. There is an increasing focus in the academy on this as well. The University of Oslo report, the University and Higher Education Council report and the Language Council study show that. That means that we from our department also focus on this, and that Stortinget is given the opportunity to discuss Norwegian language policy in its entirety, will be an outstanding opportunity to focus on Norwegian. As almost everyone in the debate has pointed out, this is a dilemma, because Norwegian is a small language area. While language is more than a cultural carrier, language should also be a academic language. So you have these different difficult dilemmas. No matter how you turn it around, we want Norwegian research to be internationally oriented and Norwegian researchers to be involved in publishing in international channels. The report from the University of Oslo shows that 80 pst. of those who choose English, do it to be read, and that 50 pst. select English for peer evaluation of what they publish. Publishing in cooperation with foreign researchers has become more common in recent years. That's the background for the choices the different researchers make when they select the publishing channel. Although often mentioned in the public debate, there is no difference between publishing in an English and a Norwegian journal. It's not the language that's crucial, but the publishing channel. The publishing channel is the institution and the researchers themselves who give a weight to it. It is not a political assessment, but it depends on how prestigious the various journals are considered to be. And it is true that within many disciplines, the most prestigious journals and channels of publication are in a language other than Norwegian. So that means that it's actually not the language that's crucial, but the publishing channel as such. Then we are back to what I replied to the interpellant in the beginning, namely that Norwegian is a small research language internationally – 0.4 pst. is a modest number, and 4.5 million people are also a modest number in relation to the world out there. I take with me all the recordings that have been made in the debate. We largely share the view on how we should proceed with this. We will prepare this together with the Ministry of Culture. It is the Ministry of Culture that will present the Communication on Norwegian Language Policy, but technical language will be an important element in this, and we will prepare this from the Ministry of Knowledge. How we prepare this is a little early to decide on now, but we will of course prepare this in close cooperation with different disciplines in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e658	The handling of case No. 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e672	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 35 minutes and will be distributed up to 5 minutes per lot. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e681	A decision to end life-saving treatment must be one of the heaviest decisions anyone can make. The circumstances surrounding the situation will always be tragic, always hurt and always affect those involved in a terribly difficult way. In the vast majority of cases, related and medical professionals agree on such issues. I believe that the proposal we are discussing today sets out constructively the cases in which those involved do not reach agreement, and I hope that today's debate will do the same. I believe that the times when related and medical professionals do not agree on whether to terminate or continue life-saving treatment, both sides will be served with a clear regulatory framework and a clear procedure to deal with. Clearly, it will be crucial for the relatives to have clarity and certainty that all options have been evaluated and all possible treatment tested. When assessing whether or not to terminate life-saving treatment, one has to ask two key questions. Firstly, one has to consider the actual state of the patient’s health: what are the realities of the patient’s situation? Such an assessment must primarily be justified on a medical basis. Should disagreement arise, a person must be entitled to a new independent assessment of the state of health. The Patient Rights Act shall give all patients the right to such a reassessment, a second opinion. If the patient is in a coma, this right is managed by the relatives. The second thing that needs to be assessed after one has clarified the state of health is whether the condition indicates that the treatment should be stopped. Such an assessment must primarily be justified on ethical grounds. Today, all health establishments have their own ethics committees. The minority claims in its observations that current clinical ethics committees in hospitals are not the appropriate bodies to assess such cases. This note has not been joined by the majority. I believe, on the contrary, that it is important in such cases to establish a process of good communication, and I believe that it would, as a general rule, be an advantage that the discussion should be carried out as closely as possible where the decision is to be taken, i.e. in the health company's own ethics committee. Treatment in such a committee may have several outcomes. The parties concerned may agree to terminate the treatment or may agree to continue the treatment. It may also take place that the Committee considers that the proceedings should be terminated, despite the opinion of those concerned. In such cases, relatives should be given the opportunity to re-examine the matter. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that for example: criteria may be laid down to enable patients or dependants to have the case brought before a clinical ethics committee by another healthcare provider. This could strengthen the consideration of viability and independence. The minority in the Committee is in favour of a legislative amendment, while the majority of the Committee in its position is in favour of the content of the letter from the Council of State. I believe the entire committee agrees that both sides will be served with clear legislation and a clear procedure to deal with, and I believe the entire committee agrees that it is essential for the relatives to have clarity and certainty that all possibilities have been assessed and all possible treatment tested. But there are several ways to improve the rights of relatives. I don't think that changing the law will necessarily be the best procedure, and I'm glad that the majority wants to give the Council of State the opportunity to go through today's legislation and assess which procedure will be the best way to change the legislation. A lot of people say that this can best happen without changing the law itself. For example, the Council of State points out: in her letter that the measures she is suggesting are those that can be taken quickly. A law change is a more complicated process, and then it will take longer before we get the changes in place. The majority of the Committee considers that the written reply of the Council of State respects the intentions of the proposers and meets the ministry's further work on the complex of matters and the outcome of the assessments which the Council of State wishes to carry out. On this basis, the majority proposes that the document be annexed to the Protocol, and I ask the Stortingen to take a decision in accordance with the majority vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e711	Just to take the last one first: it is a unanimous committee that believes that the response of the Council of State respects the intentions of the proposers. But the minority wants to go a little further with the matter, so it's said once and for all. It is also in the setting that is on the table today. I therefore do not believe that these are the major differences in the matter. It's just that some people might want to go a little bit further and want some other tools than the majority add up to. I'll try to advertise a couple of those things. One goes to the law. In the vote, the following proposals have been made by the Progress Party and the Left: ‘The ruling asks the Government to initiate work on the statutory right of the relatives to an independent review where there is disagreement between the relatives and the medical professional as to whether treatment should be continued or terminated.’ The difference is that we want this to be incorporated into law, while the majority want to make it clear that this might be done in a different way. And just to have said that: this proposal does not prevent other measures from being taken even now while considering how this legal text should be drafted, whether it should be in the form of a separate law, or where it naturally belongs in the opinion of the undersigned, namely in the Patient Rights Act – if this is to be enshrined in the law. I don't think that's the big difference, but we want to go a little bit further. Furthermore, the Progress Party points out that in those cases where a relatively small professional environment exists in Norway, we want it to be possible to get a review from foreign trade union staff as well. Here I don't think there's much disagreement when it comes to the problem either, precisely because we have to realize that in some cases there can be significantly more competence abroad than what we actually have within our own borders. It is not possible to put under the chair that the background that this proposal has been made, to a large extent, is the matter we had in Bergen. But we're also going to take inwards that there's a very small number of things that are involved. In the vast majority of cases, agreement is reached, as the case-rapporteur pointed out. The question is just what legislation we need to take into account the situations where there is no consensus. I also agree with the rapporteur that it is, of course, best to reach agreement and reach agreement as closely as possible where the decision is to be taken. But we know that in some situations there may be good reason to move the matter out of the health company's own ethics committee and over to others. So I welcome the further work here that the Council of State outlines in its letter to the Committee, which I believe is well on the way to fulfilling the intentions of the proposers. Furthermore, the Progress Party has pointed out in its comments that it is important that the relatives have the security to ensure that their interests are also safeguarded in such a case. Therefore, the Progress Party says that it is important, in the context of the matters to be considered, that the relatives are also given the right to appoint a person to take care of their interests, otherwise you will be able to feel that a decision is being made downwards on you. I am pleased that these matters have been put on the agenda. The proposers have done a thorough and good job here, because it is important to clarify this. Furthermore, the Council of State has announced that she will look into the matter and the legislation that is there, and I look forward to that. In many ways the intentions are fulfilled, but the Progress Party wants to go a little bit further and will legislate it. I am referring here to the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e738	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e741	Let me begin by saying that I fully agree with the chairman of the committee that there is no major or in principle emphasized disagreement in the committee on this matter. Let me also stress that the specific matter that attracted great media attention, which is the reason why the proposal has been raised, I do not intend to comment. That case is an independent assessment, so everyone is wise to refrain from having any opinions or evaluation of that course. It will be possible to come back to this when the report is available. There is reason to stress that in today’s health system, continuous, practically daily decisions of this kind are taken. There is a new situation in the sense that it is only in recent years that there has been such a large and rich register of technological opportunities for life-long treatment — or perhaps it is more appropriate than calling it life-long treatment — that we have almost unlimited opportunities to delay the death process for humans. A responsible practice of medicine thus requires much more frequent than before to make these types of difficult decisions. Everyone can understand – without being close to this type of professional practice – that it is the most responsible and the most difficult of all people may have to take responsibility for it. Let me also stress that what has been promoted in the public debate in connection with the Kristina case, namely, that some have claimed that this should be decided by the relatives, and not medical personnel, is a position that is very little thoughtful. First, it would be morally wrong to ask some relatives to assume that responsibility, for that responsibility would be extremely difficult to bear. Secondly, when you want such a solution, you assume that the relatives agree with each other. In very many cases it won't be like this. You can experience uproaring conflicts between close relatives around the hospital bed. Therefore, it must be the worst-thought of all possible solutions in this field. Let me also stress that regardless of what the Council of State might achieve when carrying out the assessment process that she has promised in her letter to the Committee, I believe that it is not possible to establish arrangements where an expert body, whether in the ethical or strictly medical field, should be able to instruct a responsible treating physician to act against his conscience or his professional conviction. It will undermine the very basic principle of our entire medical system, and also in the legislation we per. are currently responsible for health professionals. There's a situation you have to rule out. I think that the response of the Council of State to the Committee is a satisfactory response. I think it is very desirable that we take the time here to carefully consider both the question of whether there is a need for any further legislation in addition to the general statutory provisions of the Patient Rights Act, on the right to second opinion in general and the assessment of what further regulations or regulation should look like, if you find that there is a need for it. I think this is an area that under no circumstances is suitable for urgent work or improvised legal work. What is being done in this area should be carefully considered and all consequences should be carefully considered. That is why I believe that the majority of the committee will come to the right conclusion when it proposes to attach the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e756	I fully agree with the proposers that relatives must be entitled to an alternative professional assessment in situations where there is disagreement between relatives and professionals responsible for ending or continuing life-saving treatment. I perceive the State Council Sylvia Brustad's reply to the committee so that she also agrees with this. Governments have responded positively that the ministry will now review the scheme we have. If she finds that this can be done by changes in rules and criteria, it can be implemented within a short period of time. This is positive. Any legislation will take longer. Moreover, I am also somewhat uncertain as to whether there is a need for a change in the law in order to re-appraise this right that everyone in the Committee has agreed on. That is why, in my remark, I ask the Council of State to assess whether there is a need to legislate on the right of relatives to an independent review. Maybe there's already a law firm that can be used. The core of the matter was updated through a tragic patient history that became highly media-focused and that affected us all. That time it was a little damaged child. However, the ethically difficult balances related to when and whether a life-saving treatment should be completed also apply, for example. in newborn care and care for the elderly. Recently we read in the Newspaper that ‘two-thirds of the newborns who die in the Rikshospitale die because the doctors end the treatment’. Furthermore, we read that ‘now health professionals are discussing whether they should more often say no to treatment, if the child suffers and the prospects for survival are minimal’. Every one of these little children has parents who so deeply want their child to be saved and live. These are big and difficult ethical dilemmas that both parents and doctors have to deal with together. Even in the care of the elderly, we find the same ethical dilemmas about the treatment of the dying. A nurse was recently interviewed by the Municipal Report. She works at the Füllingsdalen educational home in Bergen, a nursing home that has focused on dignity and care at the end of life. This nurse says that one of the most difficult things is the relationship with relatives who will not give up hope and who insist on, for example: liquid treatment throughout the final phase of life. At the same time, she says that although it is difficult and bad, it usually goes well when the staff have knowledge to justify what is best for the patient, and when the staff themselves are safe in their advice to relatives. It is a very important theme that the proposers have traveled. There needs to be more transparency and, above all, greater competence in the dialogue with relatives in such cases. The most important thing is that responsible treatment and patient/patients agree together, and that it is not necessary for relatives to have to go to the step of getting another body to consider difficult, unresolved ethical issues. But if the need is there, the offer must be there, unquestionably. I look forward to the Council of State coming back with proposals for an operational solution that can be put in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e773	The proposal by the representatives of Ludvigsen, Skkelstad and Sponheim to strengthen the rights of relatives in situations where there is disagreement between relatives and treatment personnel about continuing or ending life-saving treatment has its background in a single case in Bergen in the last winter. The matter created a social debate, and some politicians also came with a very rough outcome to the hospital that was in charge of the treatment, a critical hospital could not actually meet because one was not released from the obligation of confidentiality. Afterwards, the proposal by the representatives of the Left who are dealing with the Stortinget today is being formulated. Who should decide whether to continue treatment or to discontinue treatment? The medical staff in intensive care units are very aware that relatives should not be given the impression that they are in favour of saying yes or no to treatment, but that there is a decision taken by the medical officers after thorough evaluation. The treating physician is responsible for the treatment given. Therefore, doctors are also responsible for stopping treatment when it is no longer useful. It's a responsibility that no one else can take. Through good information, relatives can be introduced into processes that allow the understanding of decisions taken by treating physicians to be accepted. This works in all, most cases very well, although one sometimes has to spend more time than the patient's best. The ethical dilemma facing doctors when there is rarely an agreement with relatives on decisions is, on the one hand, the consequences for the patient who is subjected to meaningless treatment and, on the other hand, the concern for relatives. In the social debate about the matter in question in Bergen, the focus was on the family. I'm glad that the majority here on the Stortinget doesn't easily leave a single issue of which the public knows only a small fraction, create a precedent for any new legislation in this area. I believe that in the event of disagreement on continued treatment, a clinical ethics committee in another healthcare company will be able to carry out an assessment of the case, which is also being carried out today on a consultative basis when treating doctors face difficult decisions. I also interpret the State Council's response letter to the Committee so that she will assess the possible need for national guidelines for the clinical ethics committees which ensure non-discrimination in procedures in the event of difficult cases, i.e. whether the scheme can be improved somewhat. Most of the relatives express that they are well cared for and are included in the issues facing medical staff in terms of treatment given to one’s closest. That's why our hospitals are very conscious of getting good processes. But it will never succeed completely. No matter what legislation we have, the situation is often so difficult and the emotional reactions of man are so complex that one can never avoid difficult situations when a decision is finally taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e786	This case, as we all know, has a serious background, i.e. the cases of inconsistency between patients/ dependants and the medical professional responsible for continuing or ending life-saving treatment. We know that in a few cases, as others have said, there is, unfortunately, a fundamental distrust between patients/responsives and the caregivers, and that the dialogue is completely broken. Experience has shown that today’s legislation is not good enough. I am pleased that the Brustad Council has acknowledged this in a letter to the committee. Left's suggestion that the relatives should be entitled to an alternative and independent assessment, a so-called second opinion assessment, I believe is an important step towards restoring trust and dialogue between the parties. The central thing in our presentation is relatively simple, the central thing is to establish clear driving rules for all parties – and I stress all parties – so get a clear legislative and regulatory framework and establish a clear procedure that all parties can adhere to. I also believe that such an improved system itself will be conflict-building. It is gratifying that the Left's initiative for better lawmaking, not least to strengthen its relatives' rights in these situations, has been widely supported in a comprehensive health and care committee. It has been mentioned in the debate here today by the representative of Wage – and I agree with him – that there is no fundamental inconvenience in the Committee. The small disadvantage that exists in the Committee is that the Left and the Advance Party will have the right to a new and independent assessment by the relatives, while the majority in the Committee will not instruct the Government to legislate, but await its further work on the matter. As I have said, it is central in this matter to establish clear driving rules. Whether it is the minority or the majority in the committee who are taking a positive view of it today, I see that the department is taking this matter very quickly, immediately and so that both patients, relatives and medical personnel are given a safe, good and clear legal framework to keep up in these difficult situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e797	I'm glad that Stortinget is paying attention to a type of matter that is among the most difficult we have to deal with in the health care system. Most treatment discontinuation decisions are taken, which have already been discussed, on the basis of agreement between treatment staff, the patient and his/her dependants. The cases that this is about are situations where you don't come to an agreement. As I have already pointed out in my letter to the Health and Care Committee of 17 March this year, we today have several legal provisions to help make the right decisions. These provisions shall also ensure that the views of the patient and its relatives are taken into account. I would like briefly to mention the most important ones. The patient is entitled to a health assessment within 30 days of receipt of the referral. Important in the context of this is also the right to review under the Patient Rights Act § 2-3. This may be an appropriate instrument for an objective assessment of the availability of treatment options. Furthermore, the Patient Rights Act stipulates that the patient has the right to participate in the implementation of healthcare and to obtain information. Among other things, this includes: that the patient is to be included on advice where a choice must be made between different treatment or investigation methods. The patient shall be provided with the information necessary to gain an understanding of his health status and the content of his health care. In cases where the patient does not have consent, the patient’s closest relative, as is known, has rights both in terms of participation with the patient and in terms of obtaining information. When it comes to questions of end-of-life treatment, where relatives want treatment to continue, special ethical issues arise. The decision to be taken involves something far more than a purely professional assessment of what are sound treatment options. The applicable legislation is based on the fact that the medical personnel responsible are competent to decide on such cases. However, the recent social debate has shown how difficult it can be when a decision is taken that is contrary to the wishes of relatives. I believe that the clinical ethics committees are initially suitable bodies for discussing the handling of such matters. This is also a type of matter which is actually dealt with in the clinical ethics committees today. At the same time, I see that in some cases questions can be raised about the objectivity of the ethics committee concerned in such cases. The clinical ethics committees are largely composed of persons working in the health undertaking concerned. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee wants to give me the opportunity to make an in-depth assessment of which measures are most appropriate to take account of relatives in such situations. One of the measures I would like to consider is to provide patients or relatives with the opportunity to have the case brought before a clinical ethics committee in another healthcare company. This will strengthen the consideration of sustainability and independence. I would also like to consider the possibility of a set of national guidelines for the clinical ethics committees, which could also help to avoid as far as possible differences in the practice of dealing with matters in the committees. In my view, it is important to facilitate the avoidance of disagreement between relatives and health professionals about this type of decision. Therefore, it is important to use sufficient time. For the few cases where such a disagreement nevertheless arises, I will work to ensure that the handling of the matter and the ethical, human and professional considerations that must be made in such difficult situations as this are dealt with in as reassuring, objective and thorough a manner as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e816	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e832	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 35 minutes and distributed up to 5 minutes per lot. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e841	This is obviously the day for peaceful relations politically. It was said by the committee's chairman in the previous case that there was a very high degree of consensus in the committee. There is even more to be said about this matter, or expressed differently: the difference between the two proposals available is really minimal. What's dissatisfaction is that the ambulance service for psychiatric patients should, of course, meet the requirements laid down in the Ambulance Regulation. The majority of the Committee points out that it is explicitly stated that this part is also included in the general quality requirements imposed on health care establishments in the case of ambulance services. Thus, health enterprises do not have access to two different quality objectives, one for ambulance services for somatic diseases and the other for mental illness. What the proposers want, and on which the minority proposal is based, is to make this concrete, so that the model developed by Health Bergen and agreed by the entire Committee is a good model, should be the model for all health businesses. On this point, the ways are distinguished, because the majority of the committee believes that this is to be seen as what is commonly called ‘best practice’, i.e. that in an industry there are some who go ahead and find good and creative solutions. It should address all others and assess whether it is appropriate to do so in the same way. However, it is not appropriate to bind everyone from above — from the general authorities — to do the exact same thing. It is clear that local circumstances may vary widely in this country, for example: has to do with the pattern of residence, and it must still be such that it is those who are closest to the place where the services are to be provided that have the best basis for assessing which practical solution is most appropriate in the place in question. But, as I said, the disagreement is very limited. Therefore, I believe that the essence of the matter is that the Storting in this way reminds health businesses of their obligation and that there should be no different quality standards for ambulance services for patients with somatic disorders and patients with mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e856	The psychiatry plan and all the political signals are unique when they say that the psychiatry should be equated with the somatic. In addition, the Government has said that psychiatry should be given priority in order to meet the need for professional treatment. Psychiatric patients shall meet with the same dignity and offer of emergency assistance as patients with somatic disorders. In Fredrikstad, issue of February 1st and following days, the paper describes the problem that psychiatric patients are now increasingly being followed up by the police. These are people who are mentally unbalanced, often combined with drug problems, who are not receiving help or who are leaving the health system. Figures from 2005 show that Eastfold police had to move on average daily to two psychiatry/disease missions. A total of 735 such calls were logged at the Eastfold Police Operation Centre in 2005. The statistics also reveal that Fredrikstad has the largest share. It's not that nice, because it's a city. But in addition, all the commissions the police have to search for patients who have disappeared from Veum Psychiatric Hospital. Here they can look for hours and days for patients who should have actually been followed up by the health care system. Nationally, there are also many thousands of patients who meet the police instead of psychiatric ambulances when they need help. It is also a social problem that the police, with their scarce resources, spend their time on tasks that others should have been responsible for. Moreover, the police do not have the competence to deal with serious psychiatric patients, which may lead to unfortunate and dangerous situations. It is also a failure that serious sick patients are not followed up by the hospital when they run away from treatment. Health professionals are competent to handle these situations correctly and to make the necessary assessments. And it's the health service that's responsible for following up psychiatric patients. An emergency team of psychiatric experts, based on the model of what has been established in Bergen, should become a requirement in all health regions. The police will continue to be involved in some tasks where the situation is threatening, but may then run away when the situation is under control. The service in Bergen is the result of good cooperation, and it has led to savings in economic terms and to better conditions for both the police, the health business and the patient. In other words, there's a win-win situation. The ambulance is civil, and it is equipped with modern aids. It is also registered as a call-out vehicle so that it can reach its destination quickly. The car is driven by an ambulance crew member and can provide first aid in emergency situations. It may also be necessary in case of an accident where such an ambulance is the right place to be on site. Police assistance is still needed, but this is only an addition – they should not come first. This is a proposal to ensure a more gentle and professional handling of patients from the first moment. As it is today, it is both frightening, degrading and not least stigmatizing that the mentally ill are picked up by uniformed police. There is no crime to have a serious mental illness, and these patients must be able to receive the same treatment for professionals in emergency situations. There is agreement in the committee, and there is agreement in the Chamber, that this is a need. What is not agreed is whether to impose on health establishments. It tends to pull out, and it tends to get pushed at things when it's not imposed. There's no one here saying that there should be an exact copy. What you're saying is "by model from Health Bergen." And it's got to get better, because the ambulance service in Bergen isn't 24 hours a day all week, and it might be. But this model, which seems to work well, and with which everyone is satisfied, the Progress Party believes that it is now to be established in all regions. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to propose the establishment of psychiatric ambulance teams in all regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e879	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e882	What is particularly positive with this Document No. The 8 proposal is that we get to focus our attention on a very successful psychiatric ambulance service and transport service in Bergen. There is no doubt that this way of organizing the ministry in a city like Bergen, if need acute psychiatric assistance, can be a good example of follow-up. It is Health Bergen who, on its own initiative, introduced this psychiatric ambulance service from 1 May 2005. Despite relatively short working hours, one year, the project has been positive both for patients, for professionals and for the police, who previously spent far more resources on assistance than they are doing now. Not least for patients, it is important that they meet with professionals with psychiatric competence in acute situations. It is also positive that the police are less necessary than before for the transport of mental ill in the Bergen region. At the psychiatric ambulance service in Health Bergen, Health Vest has solved its regulatory responsibility for emergency medical services for psychiatric patients in an excellent way. It is important to point out that regional health establishments are responsible for the necessary ambulance services, in terms of both somatic and mental ill patients. This responsibility can be organised in different ways. The most important thing is that patients receive a decent and professional offer throughout the country. I'm probably a little worried that that's not the case everywhere – yet. It is therefore important that the Council of State also draw attention to this with regard to health businesses. Let me take an example: In January this year, Truls Fyhn said to the newspaper Nordlys: ‘We need to help more people into institutions. Most of the cases that the police have to deal with are the transport of mentally ill — either to their home or to institutions. [[...]] We feel more like a transport agency than the police." He would now put the foot down for general police assistance in psychiatry. A complication was also the lack of acute psychiatric institutions in Tromsø. Health Bergen has found its good way to organize psychiatric ambulance services. I am sure that there are good examples from other health companies as well. It is important that the Ministry sees it as its responsibility to communicate the good solutions so that all health businesses can become ‘learning organisations’ in relation to the responsibilities they all share with the population. The new outpatient teams now in the process of being built will also be able to take preventive action and likely to lead to fewer acute cases. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee. We assume that the Minister of Health and Health will ensure that health businesses fulfil their obligation to provide appropriate ambulance services for mentally ill people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e906	It was said here before that in this case there are only slight differences in the opinion of the committee. I just took the word to say that in the left we think we can't detail how health care professionals should operate at this level. Here we have a situation where we actually have a pretty strong clarification in the law, in the regulations. If I read it correctly – I am not a lawyer – it says that one refers to Section 14 of the regulations on claims osb. It seems very detailed when it says there, and there would be a safe basis for the Council of State in its business meeting, if there is any problem in this area. She says that psychiatric patients should be equated with somatic patients. That's what's the starting point. The debate here is probably important in itself, but I believe the law is detailed enough. But it is gratifying that some health services, not least in Health Bergen, are trying out new things. It could be a possibility for others to learn, and it's very important. One thing I thought about myself is that it might work against your purpose if you have a separate arrangement for some patients. It might seem stigmatizing in itself. I think it's better to find satisfaction and good arrangements with the system that one has within this acute medical chain. I also believe that it would never make sense to have cooperation between the various public services. Specialists and other health services, the social services of municipalities and police authorities must help each other whenever necessary. I think we have to count on that in the future as well, and then we have to try to have a good dialogue between these different ones. Interaction is something we shout after many times. One should do this in a good way, so that these special patients that we're talking about here, who have it hard enough already, don't get it even harder when they get in these situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e922	Through the Pedestrian Health Plan, the capacity has been strengthened and significantly more people have received help, but I would like to emphasise: In my opinion, we are not in target. That is why the offer to people with mental disorders needs to continue to be strengthened. The challenges ahead, as I see it, are among other things. related to ensuring better flow in service so that bottlenecks and overcoating do not arise. For example, we see that some patients in specialist health care and acute psychiatric wards should have been followed up at a lower level. The emergence of such bottlenecks also contributes to the failure of individual patient follow-up and to the failure of cooperation with other actors. This may be some of the reasons why the police in some contexts have expressed dissatisfaction with how healthcare has followed up psychiatric patients. The proposal to establish a psychiatric ambulance service in all regional health establishments must therefore be seen in the context of the general policy in this area. A significant measure to contribute to the strengthening of the offers and the whole of the service is the systematic establishment of outpatient teams. As the Stortinget is briefed on, regional health companies are required to establish ambulance teams and ambulance teams. Experience so far shows that teams contribute to increasing the availability of qualified services, so that patients receive a good professional offer. I have noticed in particular that one of the experiences of an ambulance emergency team is that hospitalisations in the emergency wards are being reduced, and this also reduces the need for the transport of psychiatric patients to institutions. Emergency teams shall not replace daily shifts but are an important complement to emergency wards. This is a model based on experience from England, which also aims to capture the need for evaluation, immediate assistance and transport of patients to institutions. Cooperation between health services and the police is essential. Health services must organise themselves in such a way that they also support cooperation with other actors, such as drug users. the police whenever necessary. This collaboration has not worked as well everywhere, and there is a need for clearer routines, as I see it. The Social and Health Directorate and the Police Directorate are in the process of completing a joint circular that will clarify the division of responsibilities and tasks between the police and the health services towards mentally ill people. I assume that healthcare and the police locally are looking for cooperation solutions for solving acute situations for the benefit of patients. Cooperation between the health services and the police in Oslo is a good example of the possibility of finding common routines locally. If it is necessary to carry out the necessary coercive action outside the institution, it is the clear task of the police. The routine use of police for clean transport services would be the wrong use of police resources. In Bergen, one has in many ways found a solution that is adapted to local conditions and problems. Of course, this experience is important to take with it, especially in relation to the places where the ambulance service deals with a large volume of people with these kinds of problems. The Ministry has asked the Directorate for Social and Health for a professional assessment of the proposal on own psychiatrybulances. The Directorate dismissed the adoption of a decision on its own psychiatrybulance at that time. Reference is made to the fact that in 2005 tests have been carried out with an ambulance emergency team based on a model from England, as I have briefed, which is also aimed at capturing the problem associated with the solution in question in Bergen. The Directorate has recommended that patients be given a professional assessment of the team with a view to finding the right measures for each individual. The aim is for teams to be able to provide rapid treatment at home or in a district psychiatric centre. The emergency teams shall provide transport or accompany the patient to an emergency department whenever necessary. Usually, in such situations, there will be no need for an ambulance. Of course, in cases where ambulances will be needed, regional health businesses will have to provide for it. In some areas of urban problems, health firms have chosen to install their own specialised ambulances, as the ambulance service manages a relatively large volume of acute mental illness. However, all ambulances must initially have equipment and competence and be manned to handle all types of diagnostics. So my conclusion is that you have to be able to organise this based on what is best in each region and in different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e944	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e964	All citizens must receive an equivalent provision of healthcare. Quality, safety, accessibility and care shall be at the core of healthcare. The Christian People’s Party believes that health services should give priority to psychiatry, cancer care, and chronically ill people. In the course of life, one in three will get cancer. In 2004, 24 400 people were diagnosed with cancer. If you don't get cancer yourself, everyone will have someone in their family or community who is hit by cancer. It is expected to be 26 pst. increase in the number of cancer cases up to 2020, compared to 2001. This is largely due to the ageing of the population. Older people get cancer more often than younger people. A little over half get healthy after cancer, while every year 10,500 people die of cancer. The National Cancer Plan 1998–2003 has contributed to a significant increase in cancer care. Although that plan has been completed, further efforts have been made to develop cancer care. Already in the 2004 state budget, a national strategy for responding to the challenges of cancer care was announced in the years to come. This is particularly true in relation to treatment signals. It is important that cancer care challenges are addressed in a holistic and strategic way. In the 2004 report, the National Strategy for Carcinogenic Work — Quality, Competence and Capacity, among other things. emphasised on improving the quality of cancer care by implementing new methods with proven positive effects and making it more easily available. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that common national standards for treatment are developed to ensure that patients receive equivalent treatment irrespective of their place of residence. Patients seriously affected by cancer will experience it as unfair if they were told that they would receive a different treatment with a different outcome in another country or in another hospital. I am meeting the National Strategy for the Cancer Area 2006-2009 as the Government of the revised national budget alerts will be presented in the National Health Plan in the 2007 budget proposal. The main treatments for cancer are surgery, radiation and medicines. A lot of new things are happening in cancer treatment, including: a number of new medicinal products have emerged. These lead to increased survival and reduced morbidity in cancer. They are used differently in different health establishments. There is therefore a discrimination in the treatment of cancer in our country. Although the drug Herceptin, which is used to treat the most exciting and lethal form of breast cancer, now appears to be being used in several hospitals in the country, there are probably other drugs being used to varying degrees. The differences between hospitals also apply to treatment in the form of surgery. It has been demonstrated that the quality of cancer treatment is better in large hospitals than in small ones. The major hospitals receive cancer patients who have not received adequate treatment in local hospitals. According to the Daily Newspaper, every year 1,000 Nordics get cancer in the rectum. Those who are operated on the major hospitals in Oslo have 20 p.m. better chance of getting better than those who are operated on in the smaller hospitals around the country. This updates a problem related to opportunities versus offers. The challenges for hospitals regarding the treatment of cancer are also linked to the economy. According to the Norwegian breast cancer group, the use of Herceptin in Norwegian women affected by breast cancer costs approx. One hundred and thirteen million. kr. If this type of treatment is prioritized, it may affect other types of treatment that you cannot afford. There is too many a relevant question. There are not only differences in the treatment of cancer between countries in Norway but also differences between Norway and other countries. Data from the Medical Products Association suggest that Norway is behind other countries in Europe in the use of drugs in the treatment of cancer. Furthermore, it is important that the medicinal products used have a proven effect. I hope the Council of State will focus on finding the facts for which treatment is important to priority. Furthermore, research and treatment of cancers that are not so-called profitable, I am thinking of childhood cancer and rare cancers, must also be pursued. Medical firms show little interest in these, because it is primarily within the major cancers that money is to be earned. In an interpellation about cancer, it's natural for me to also say something about pain relief. Discussions about drugs also focus on the drugs that provide the best pain relief. We know that the number of patients with cancer is increasing, and many will be incurably ill. Then it is necessary to be able to live a worthy life as far as possible with minimal pain. I think we have a great potential for developing better and more knowledge in this area. A 2005 report from the Knowledge Centre revealed the following: There are few studies of sufficient size and quality regarding the efficacy of treatment methods to relieve pain in patients with unwholesome cancer.There are particularly few studies in children with cancer-related pain.Lendering radiation therapy has a good effect on patients who spread to the skeleton.Morfin is important, but it is uncertain whether there are differences in the effects of the different drugs. Organisational challenges are identified with the need for more local pain management, i.e.: home/near environment. There is a strong need in the same report to launch more research into pain management for incurable cancer. I also believe that this is very important. Although more and more people are being cured of cancer, as we know, many people have to live with the disease over time. For these it is often the fear of severe pain in the final phase that gives the greatest anxiety and anxiety. Therefore, I hope the Government will also focus on this as soon as possible. There is a need to clean up the treatment offered to people affected by cancer. It is important to ensure uniform and equivalent treatment irrespective of where you live in the country. Furthermore, the overall objective must be to ensure that the treatment offered is, in sum, the best available in relation to the financial framework available. Here it is necessary, I think, with the joint efforts of all the political parties in order to achieve a worthy cancer care. I meet the Council of State's response to how she will solve these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1025	The cancer treatment offered at the country’s hospital shall be of the same quality regardless of the patient’s sex, ethnic background, economics or residence. Equal treatment for all is a political objective for this government, and it is an important political matter for me. But that doesn't mean that all hospitals are going to do the exact same thing. In order to achieve the objective of as much equivalent treatment as possible in this important area, the Government has today launched the National Strategy for the Cancer Area 2006-2009, as we briefed on in the budget for this year. Current and future cancer challenges shall be met offensively and holistically, as the representative, Mr Davøy, also points out. This cancer strategy contains the objectives and measures we have for the entire cancer area, and addresses the whole treatment chain from prevention to relief for the most seriously ill, as another interpellation is about here today. Here I believe it is a potential for improvement throughout the chain. The strategy also addresses the meeting between the cancer patient, healthcare and society, as well as the competences of health professionals, research and register activities. In order to connect all these fields and ensure more public attention to the tasks, I have employed Professor Stein Kaasa as strategy director in the Social and Health Directorate. He's very recognized nationally, I'd say also internationally. He's going to be the government's extended arm. Unfortunately, cancer seems to be an increasing public disease. We have to focus more on it, and this will be job number. 1 for Professor Stein Kaasa. I have great expectations that we will manage to lift this field, so that equivalent treatment offers become a reality for anyone affected by cancer or in the risk group to get this disease. The cancer strategy describes national cancer treatment action programmes. This is important to address differences in the provision of investigation and treatment. The action programmes will help to shape the public offer over the same reading, and that is what I believe the representative is also calling for. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that ultimately, the discretionary judgement of health professionals is the basis for the choice of treatment, but I believe that such national action programme must be an important starting point for exercising this discretion in practice. A separate project has been established in the Directorate for Social and Health to work on national cancer action programmes. Among other things, the National Knowledge Centre for Health, Regional Health Enterprises and Professional Environment cooperates in developing national guidelines for the overall treatment course of the patient. This means that we should have national recommendations for the offer from the time when cancer is suspected, through investigation, diagnosis and treatment, and for the patient to be rehabilitated. The recommendations shall continue to be based on professionally updated knowledge in order to ensure that the treatment offered has a documented effect. The action programmes shall contribute to the establishment of clear cooperation relations between the specialist health service and the primary health service in the field of cancer. The aim is to ensure that everyone is offered an equivalent offering of high quality. A system shall also be established whereby the authorities, in cooperation with the professional communities and regional health establishments, regularly update the standards of treatment. Below I would like to mention the establishment of an early warning system for new technologies and new methods that can be used, so that treatment and methods do not depend on which hospital the patient is on. Working groups have been set up in the areas of breast cancer, urologic cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, heritable cancer, lymphatic cancer and relieving treatment. Working groups for other cancer areas shall be established on an ongoing basis. The first action programmes are planned to be completed by the turn of the year 2006/2007, and they shall be available via the national health library, which is an electronic interchange channel for health professionals to acquire quality assurance knowledge. I would like to mention another important measure to ensure high quality in the care of cancer and that the offer is made in the same way for everyone. It is that we manage to get an even better division of work between hospitals in areas where we have documented that there is a link between volume and quality of treatment. Regional health establishments have already aggregated and distributed the treatment offer in cancer surgery, for breast cancer, lung cancer, ovaries and rectal cancer. I am very concerned that these processes must continue, also for other parts of the treatment offer where consistency between volume and quality has been demonstrated. At the same time, other areas of cancer treatment such as easier cancer treatment, follow-up, rehabilitation and relieving treatment are being decentralised. In the Soria Moria statement, the government states that we want a better work sharing between hospitals to get good quality treatment. Work on national action programmes will make important preparations for this organisation. I am also very concerned that we should be able to offer patients new treatment methods and new medications when these have demonstrated efficacy. The last one is also important. Before introducing a treatment, there must be evidence that a treatment or a medicine provides a health benefit compared to established treatment. Any adverse reactions must also be documented. The national health care knowledge centre has established an apparatus to assess the effects of new methods and scientific evidence in a systematic way. Such knowledge summaries will form the basis for the national action programmes. Here I can tell you that there are proposals to integrate new drugs and methods of proven effectiveness into the national cancer action programmes. The representative of Davøy mentioned treatment with Herceptin in particular. I am aware that the drug is being considered by the group working on the breast cancer action programme, and that the knowledge centre is working on the knowledge summary of benefits, side effects and costs of using this medicine. It is important to know the efficacy of the medicinal product. We need to take into account how it works with other forms of treatment and how the treatment facilities offered affect factors such as: survival. Medicinal products used in hospitals are covered as known by the ISF system and the basic appropriations of regional health establishments. Medicinal products used in cancer care are costed in the same way as other medicines in hospital accounts and are thus included in the calculation basis for the reimbursements of the ISF system. This means that the increased costs of drugs are reflected in increased reimbursements. At the same time, we are all aware that introducing new and often more expensive medicines or treatments in hospitals can lead to economic and priority challenges. The new drugs are often targeted at a few patients. This challenges the entire ISF system, which is a simple and transparent average system. I want to inform you that we now have a strong upgrade of the entire ISF work. This means that we need to update this system, with better registration systems and better information on the individual patient treatment. An important objective is to ensure that different forms of treatment, such as: medical treatment and surgical treatment are weighted equally in the ISF system. Better quality of management information will also provide regional health businesses with better information on how to raise and distribute money to health businesses. The work on developing the funding system will necessarily take some time, but this is what we are doing. At the same time, it is very important for me, as Minister of Health, to say that the funding system is not a priority system. As far as possible, we should be able to offer those who need it, the best treatment and the best medicine. It must be the leading thing for everything we're doing. The representative Davøy also mentions that there may be differences in cancer treatment outcomes. We don't find that much research-based documentation on it per year. today. Two important measures to improve knowledge of any differences in the treatment and treatment outcomes of cancer are the focus on cancer research and the establishment of national medical quality records in this area. We are also working very systematically to establish national medical quality records. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health recently presented a proposal for a new national strategy for its establishment, which will also apply to the area of cancer. We'll follow that up. This, together with the available data in the Cancer Registry, could also indicate whether there are variations in medical practice and, in particular, results and side effects of treatment. All of this will contribute to a high level of treatment in this country. It should be good quality, and it should not depend on which hospital you belong to, or on which part of the country you live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1055	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good and satisfying answer, with which I am very pleased. The fact that the announced strategy plan comes today, with objectives and measures, and that we have a great potential for improvement, to which the Council of State refers, is very gratifying. That's how I stand here and almost want to run out and start reading. I was not aware of it until now that it may have already been submitted. It is very positive, and it also shows that the Council of State has worked hard on cancer prevention and forward thinking in this area. I also think it is a good idea to hire a person – in this case Stein Kaasa – who should have cancer as a job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Based on the national action programme, with different working groups to make national recommendations, it will also, as I see it, become a kind of professional logistics chain, which is incredibly important, and which I expect will be published, so that patients can actually also know. Part of the course is predictable once you've got it and that type of cancer. What I want to focus more on is what the Council of State had to say about national recommendations and documented impact. Then, too, research becomes incredibly important. I'm very concerned about user research, not least related to people who have to live with cancer over many years. That's the way it is today. It is incredibly important that, in terms of both pain relief and other types of relief, follow-up research helps to develop more and more competences in this area. I agree with the Council of State that volume and quality are linked to what results we can achieve in cancer treatment. A hospital that will operate with special, perhaps difficult types of cancer must have a certain patient basis for success. Finally, I have a wish and a hope. Now, when you're going to go in and look at the new methods, work offensively, strategically, logistically, I'm going to hope that the authorities will also be able to make rapid and continuous assessments, and that we might be able to do something in advance, for example. new medicines and new treatments, as we have learned in the past, so that there are no single issues in the media that are being managed in such a way as to control the development of cancer. I want to commend the Council of State for the initiatives she has taken, and I am delighted to read the new national strategy plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1072	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Davøy, for many good words. I see that we have a common goal in this important area. I must say I have great faith in Professor Stein Kaasa. One of his tasks will be to ensure that what we say is followed up in practice, that it is followed up with concrete actions in the service, that there is interaction between the different actors at different levels, and, as the representative Davøy here says, that as far as possible we are able to be in the forefront. When we get to methods, it has to go out to everyone who needs to know about it, not only those who work in the sector, but also those who get sick, so you know what you're dealing with. There shall be equal access to up-to-date cancer treatment with documented effects across the country in the hospitals we intend to operate with it, in different degrees of the disease and the phase in which it is. I think this is going to be much better in the future than it's been up to now. The ultimate goal for all of us is to save more lives, that's the lead in everything we do. It is clear that what we are talking about in the cancer strategy plan, which lies outside the Vandrehallen afterwards for those who are interested in it, must of course also be followed up in practice. I fully agree with the representative of Davøy that research is essential to progress in relation to treatment, medicine, prevention, etc. That's the whole chain we have to get even better at. I say so much thanks for praise, and of course I am very keen to hear what the Storting has on my heart, also in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1083	I say a thousand thanks to the representative, Laila Davøy, for a very good initiative. With the great uncertainty of all cancer sufferers, they will feel – if they get the best treatment, if they really get the best medicines available – this is an important and important issue. As Davøy also mentioned in his comment to the Council of State, the Council of State has provided a number of good answers, and we look forward to finding even more detailed descriptions in the new cancer strategy. I'll bring in a moment that comes in addition to what's taken up to now in the debate here. It is that I believe that prevention is also part of the overall treatment, the overall response to cancer. That's when it comes to this part, that we can see the greatest differences, and the greatest social differences. We know, for example. that among those with short-term education aged 45 to 60 years — statistics were provided by the Social and Health Directorate last spring — there are two and a half times as many deaths — and many cases relate to cancer — as among those with long-term education. We know that among those with short education, there are four times as many who say they never exercise, as among those with high education. In terms of the factors that we know are triggering in relation to cancer, there are very difficult social differences between groups and around the country. This concerns alcohol consumption, in the case of diet, in the case of smoking, in the case of exercise, not least local pollution, in the case of the working environment – all decisive factors. When e.g. Right in his election campaign in 2005, what I would call an alcoholic campaign, where you went in for alcohol to 18-year-olds, wine at the shops and free flow of alcohol in the parks, I would say it's the opposite of preventing disease, and not least the opposite of preventing cancer. The health map of Norway shows large differences in causes of death — and in particular cancer — from county to county and from east to west. Even greater differences can be seen if we compare Norway with other countries. Take, for example, the Japan. We know that Japan has a diet that is characterized by fish and by little saturated fatty acids. The proportion of cancer deaths in Japan is dramatically much smaller than in Norway. We see that this is related to issues that are environmental, which are conditional on such factors that we can do something about. So the really great progress in the fight against cancer can be achieved through broader and stronger prevention efforts. With regard to diet, I would say that there is a great need for more research, more knowledge, more evidence of what is a carcinogen and not. We are constantly making sensational claims in the media that it can or it can prevent cancer: if you eat it, you never get cancer in the world – or the opposite. We need to know more and get this clear to people. Equally important is exercise. Well, we could say that every cycle path and every green lung prevents cancer. It is also important to reduce alcohol consumption. This is documented. Local pollution response is also important. There are areas with a lot of pollution, especially from car traffic, like east of Oslo, where we see that there are large emissions of carcinogenic benzenes, carcinogenic particulate matter. It's the same areas where there's much higher mortality than west in Oslo or in other parts of the country. We've seen the 12-year period repeatedly, and it hasn't gone down in the later decades. It's because of these environmental factors, such as increased car traffic and increased emissions of the type I'm describing. So a good environmental policy is one of the most important measures to eliminate differences in cancer, and to prevent cancer, because this disease may be the most environmentally dependent disease. The same applies to the working environment, as we know – among others. through the relationship between asbestos and lung cancer – has had a lot to do with cancer in this country. The new nanotechnology, which is on the move in the international industry and also in all kinds of industry in Norway, will mean a lot of positive, will make everything fantastic little and more functional, but we will also get a lot of drugs that we don't know the effect of which is being used in industry at an increasing pace. So it's true that we're not getting new stories of the kind of asbestos stuff when new materials are being used. I hope that this discussion, where I could also bring in many more moments than the time allowed, can be followed up as we get closer to the problems of the cancer strategy, which we get here to the Stortingen in connection with the National Health Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1102	After hearing the speeches of the last speaker, we can almost shut down all cancer research, because here we've got all the answers to what leads to cancer. It was one of the most absolute posts I've heard from this pulpit in a long, long time. There is certainly a lot right in the statements by the representative of Bohemia, but I think we should be a little more open to both research and other contexts than what emerged from this pulpit right now. Some things also please me from Bøhler's posts, and it's of course that the use of fish obviously has a positive effect. Of course, it is a pleasure to have a sundae, which will then sell these products. We're looking forward to that. The interpellant travels a very important issue. I would also like to pay tribute to the Council of State for, among other things, the current national strategy presented today. I hope this is also more or less a follow-up to many of the actions you want to take in the context of the cancer plan, so that we now move on to this. We've talked a lot about treatment, but one of the most important, perhaps the most important, that we haven't talked about here, is how early in the phase we're going to discover cancer, because it's very important for the treatment results we get. So I hope it's put a lot of emphasis on just this. I think we also have to look at the system itself. For what the representative Davøy refers to is, among other things, the large geographical differences that we have in Norway. In fact, in many ways, the residence address is the key to getting one or the other medicine. And we can't have it that way. We are citizens of the same country, and then it must also be possible to have the same health policy – whether you live in central Norway, west Norway, north Norway or south Norway. This is particularly true in medicine, because we've received a number of dangerous signals from some companies that we can't afford to use the most expensive drugs. It is a fact that the economy of enterprises has been so under pressure in many ways today that you have to consider whether you can afford it or not. One thing is cancer medicine. You can also take TNF inhibitors, where the situation is the exact same. There are different prices, there are different groups that benefit from these drugs, but not least it is assessed by what companies can afford to spend money on medicines. In this context, it's important to take inward that we might have to look at the system itself. Maybe it's time we lifted the limits of the five health republics that we've now received, to try again at least to bring Norway together into one health state. Perhaps it is important to look at the actual financing of medicinal products, whether it should be covered by the National Fund, and to find a new system for this, because with regard to the way it is financed today, there are just grants to the company that can be the determining factor in what you get from services and medicines. I hope this too will be included when you look at the ISF system itself and the way we're going to do this. But maybe the most important thing is to look at the actual pricing, that we have a proper pricing. We see that in many operations today. For example: the difference between health establishments in the case of cochlea implants. The price is so wrong that you lose the basic appropriations each time you do an operation. That's the system we have to look at a little bit. As for the strategy that is coming, I agree with the Council of State that all hospitals cannot do everything, because it affects the patient. But what we have to have in mind is the patient focus. In other words, if it is best for the patient to receive treatment as close to the place of residence as possible, we must take care of it. But if it's best for the patient to get a more centralised treatment, because exercise does the master principle underpins, it's also important to get in place. We have seen a positive development, among other things. in the case of satellites connected to jet engines, which are very important. We have also seen it related to other forms of disease, for example. on the dialysis side. So here's a bunch of things we have to take inwards. Maybe we should also look at the system that we've been working on and that we're doing. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the work to be done now, and I would also like to openly invite the Council of State to cooperate to put in place something useful for all patients in Norway, so that as much treatment as possible can be provided, regardless of the address of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1121	An inter-pelling debate on cancer treatment is not the best place for party political markings, either in the form of attacks or in the form of defence. That's why I'm going to say no to Jan Bøhler's invitation to start discussing election issues in this context – just the small remark that I think Jan Bøhler may not be the one we have the most to learn from in terms of nocturnalness in election fighting. Nor do I think it is most obvious in an inter-pelling debate on cancer treatment to discuss preventative health work in general. It is an important debate, and we are going to take it, but it does not belong in this context. Let me also congratulate the Council of State on a good and useful initiative in setting up a top-level responsible central body to promote the coordination of best treatment for cancer in this country. I think the Council of State has come up with a professional who enjoys a high level of recognition in every environment and who will be able to do a good job. I noticed that the Council of State used the title of director and not the slightly more aggressive title used in a tabloid yesterday, where it said ‘cancer general’. I think that too is an advantage. Although the general title is used not only by the military, but also by the Salvation Army, it may not be the very best name in this matter. Both the inter-pellant and the state councils were highly nuanced — affordablely nuanced — in their description of the challenges we face in the field of cancer treatment. It is true that all forecasts point to an increase in the incidence of cancer in the coming years. And it's very much related to demographic development, to which the interpellant correctly pointed. As more and more of us reach an old age, the statistical probability of people experiencing some form of cancer will also increase. The positive side of this is not to be overlooked either, namely that the vast majority of cancers are less aggressive and less aggressive when they hit older people than when they hit younger people. It also suggests that, in the future, we need to focus more on helping people to live maybe over a very long period of time with a cancer, and perhaps relatively tone down the goal of stopping the course. Both the Councils and the inter-pellant pointed out that there are considerable differences in results in the most advanced type of surgical treatment for cancers compared to the extent of operational activities. It has been documented quite emphatically repeatedly and in repeated studies, and it should just be lacking that the health care system does not take the consequences of it, and ensures that it is highly specialised competence that handles the highly specialized tasks. It is important to stress that, as far as the medical treatment of cancer is concerned, we may face even greater challenges than in most other major disease groups. Therefore, I would like to end by referring to a proposal that was promoted in 1997 by the second priority committee, which recommended the creation of a separate funding mechanism for what was called tried and tested treatment, i.e. the intermediate between basic research and clinical practice. I still think that's a good recommendation. Very many of the individual items we get in the media about named drugs with a high cost factor might have been avoided if this had been managed in an orderly way, with an orderly funding that allows for full professional consultation on what can be considered as well-documented results, and which should therefore lead to the inclusion of the drug as part of standard treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1134	It is an important interpellation the representative of Davøy has promoted, and it concerns a question that we are all concerned about: do we get good enough treatment if we get cancer, and get the ones we are happy with, good enough treatment if they get cancer? Cancer must be the disease we're afraid to get, or that one of our closest family or circle of friends will get. Luckily, a lot has happened when it comes to treating this disease in Norway, and we're privileged to live here. It is not acceptable if the provision of treatment depends on where you live. Equal treatment provision for all, whether male or female, white or black, lives in central or less central strata, is a clear political objective for our government. In order to achieve this goal, the Government has today launched a national strategy for the field of cancer — and we are very pleased about that — which is to be a holistic and offensive approach to the challenges facing the cancer area in Norway, and with one at the head that enjoys a great deal of respect in this area. That's good. As the Council of State said, the cancer strategy contains national targets and measures for the entire cancer area, ranging from prevention to screening, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, relieving, health professionals and research and registry activities. The cancer strategy describes national cancer treatment action programmes. Such programmes are the most important measures we have to address differences in the provision of investigation and treatment. It is also good that a separate project has been set up in the Social and Health Directorate to work on national cancer action programmes. It is important to develop national standards for the entire course of treatment of the patient, from the moment of suspected cancer, through investigation, diagnosis, treatment and until the patient is rehabilitated. It is important that the recommendations are based on professionally updated knowledge to ensure that the treatment offered has a documented effect. The aim is to ensure that everyone is offered an equivalent offering of high quality. A system shall also be established whereby the authorities, in cooperation with the professional communities and regional health establishments, regularly update the standards of treatment. Governments also referred to the different working groups set up to develop action programmes for different cancers. The national health care knowledge centre has established an apparatus to assess the effects of new methods and scientific evidence in a systematic manner, as well as cost-benefit. It is proposed to integrate new medicinal products and proven efficacy methods into the national cancer action programmes. It is also important to stress that work is being done to adapt the ISF system to some of the challenges facing us in the field of expensive cancer medicine. We have noticed that there is currently little research-based evidence of differences in treatment outcomes in the cancer area. This is important to do something about. Two important measures to improve knowledge of any differences in the treatment and treatment outcomes of cancer are focussed on cancer research and on the establishment of national quality medical records in the field of cancer. National quality records, together with the available data in the Cancer Registry, could say something about variations in medical practices and outcomes and side effects of treatment. Finally, I think there were some kind of strange tendons here instead. I can't believe it's irrelevant to mention something as important as prevention in an interpellant debate about cancer. Prevention should be something that permeates everything we do. We should always ask ourselves the question of what we do at system level in terms of our policies, contribute to better prevention in the population, so that we do not treat afterwards. Something more relevant than that I can actually not imagine. To claim, as among others. The representative of Inge Wohnung makes this a completely different place, I simply cannot understand. In fact, I think it is becoming obvious, especially when it comes both from the representative Wage from the Right and from the representative Nesvik, at least an indication that the issue of alcohol/cancer was affected. As far as I could see, former party leader sat, now Vice President Carl I. Hagen and shook his head vigorously. I have to say, I think it's strange. Because we know that cancer is the most environmentally dependent of all serious diseases in Norway, and we know a lot about what causes cancer – it is very much about what kind of environmental policy we are pursuing, what kind of policies we are taking in relation to alcohol and tobacco and also in relation to driving. Then there are the traditional right-wing parties who like to want full gas on exactly these issues, and who don't want a discussion about what consequences this has for society in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1154	The Council of State confirms in its response to the interpellant that the cancer treatment offered in our hospitals should be of the same quality regardless of the patient’s gender, ethnic background, residence or economy. The centre part fully shares this view. The goal is, as I think we all believe, that when someone is hit by cancer, they should be offered the optimal treatment. This means that different types of cancer may not necessarily be treated everywhere. Professionally, as we have heard – and it is documented – there is a link between the number of patients treated by a special cancer diagnosis in a hospital and the results of the treatment. Then it is essential that we nationally organise the offer so that the results become the best. In particular, it is important to develop national standards to ensure that the patient receives the best treatment. Furthermore, if surgery is carried out in a single hospital, further treatment with cytotoxic agents and palliative treatment may take place closer to the patient’s home, if good treatment procedures have been developed. So developing good treatment procedures is a prerequisite for a person to have a good offer where parts of the treatment can be done near the patient's home. On the drug side, there is a raging development that gives hope to patients suffering from cancer. In the fight for life, it is understandable that patients seek alternatives and better treatment when the treatment they receive does not provide the expected results. In the Center Party, we are concerned that our public health services should be able to offer patients new treatments and new medicines where they have demonstrated efficacy. Before new treatments and cancer medicines are introduced, there is a need to demonstrate their usefulness. It is reassuring, as the Council of State states in its statement, that the National Health Knowledge Centre has established a system to systematically assess the effects of new methods and scientific evidence and that this is the basis for national standards in the field of cancer treatment. It is also essential that we have a funding system that allows for the use of new methods where documented effects are present. The interpellant believes that there are considerable differences between countries and between hospitals in terms of the treatment provided and the results obtained. This is a claim that I have not heard the interpellant document. However, it is reassuring that national medical quality records are systematically established. These registers could say something about the results of treatment, treatment methods, drug use, etc. – and not least for adverse reactions, which are also an important area of cancer treatment. Many cancer medical experts say that cancer treatment in Norway is actually good. At the latest in the VG yesterday, the director of the Medical Association states that Norwegian cancer patients receive good treatment, but that there are opportunities for improvement. She mentions the development of new forms of treatment and improved interaction, so that the patient can be sure that everyone in charge of treatment is in good contact with each other — i.e. that the systems are improved. I think this is a very important area. It's about first- and second-line services, it's about permanents and hospitals, etc. Cancer is a people's disease. Jan Bøhler addresses this with prevention. It is a very important area, because more and more of it is being affected. But at the same time, we know that many cancers can be prevented. In a national cancer strategy, this is an important area, which I understand is given high priority in public information work. The goal must be to minimise the impact and diagnose cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1172	I'll give praise to the interpellant for putting this theme on the map. I think this debate shows that we're all obsessed with cancer, and that's not weird. As it has been said, we all know someone in our immediate family who has been affected by this disease. As far as I've understood and read, there's something we can be very specific about. One is that there is a fact that the interpellant has taken up in its interpellation, that there is a difference in treatment provision between the different health care regions. If that's not right, a lot of the bottom has fallen out of this interpolation, so I'm assuming we're going to have to verify that it's right. At least I think it's a fact that there's a different treatment supply. Another point is that more and more frames will be added. I guess we're all a few of them about that. We'll talk about it per day. years are over 20,000, maybe 25,000 new cancer cases in Norway — we also heard that more than 10,000 deaths of this disease. So it's a serious disease, which many get close to themselves. Then there was someone who called new drugs -- not least new, expensive drugs -- and how they're being used. Is there also a different treatment between the different hospitals that have cancer treatment on their agenda? Is it the case that patients in the different regional hospitals do not receive the same drug supply? If that's right, it's clear that there's a problem. I think that's right, because we have different economies in different regions. We know that in some regions, such as the Far West and Health Mid-Norway, it is unevenly distributed, and they do not want the same opportunities to finance new, expensive medicines – with today's system, well to note. I believe that we must recognise, as I have also said in the debate, that we must have a new and better financing system for new medicines. At least one review is required. I don't think, as the Council of State was about, that a review of the ISF scheme itself will be enough. You have to look at this even more closely. I'm going to flip into something of what many people have been involved, that's where the cancer treatment is to be given. We are now in Norway a lot of people that when it comes to advanced cancer treatment, it has to be centralised. I don't think there's any more debate or nonsense about it. In any case, it is clear to the Left that advanced treatment of cancer should naturally be centralised. However, I believe that smaller hospitals clearly have a place in the treatment chain. We're talking about one in three being hit by cancer, one-third of the population. Then district hospitals, local hospitals, must have a place in the treatment chain. I think that's absolutely necessary. As everyone knows, proximity is also a quality factor in this chain. It is important, as the Council of State has told us today, that good plans are being made. I am very pleased that the new cancer strategy plan, as I now understand it, is presented, so that we can study it in peace and quiet when we get time for it. The main point of such a strategy plan is that I'm going to assume that we in this poor country will have an equivalent supply everywhere. We're not going to have the same supply in all hospitals, but in each region we have to have equivalent supplies. That's what I hope to be the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1193	Like many others, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic, and I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. Cancer and cancer care are perhaps one of the biggest challenges we have in Health Norway today. It's the most growing public disease we have. More than 170000 are affected by cancer in some form and there are more than 24000 new cancers per year. We all experience, either in the family or among friends, that some people are affected by cancer. It is therefore important that all victims of cancer be sure that the treatment and offer they receive is good and that it is medically sound in all possible ways. No matter where you live in the country, you should not experience different treatment – whether in medicine, technology or professionals. That's why I don't think, as many people have said, that we can have highly specialised treatment in all hospitals, and maybe not in all regions either. The councils and I were, among other things, at the St. Olavs Hospital a short time ago, where we were presented with the importance of technological developments related to the safety of findings in the treatment of cancer. St. Olav's Hospital is among the world's leaders in this field, and it is important that they further develop their competences. What is at least important to ensure that people are healthy is that the economy should not provide different assessments related to medicine and treatment. We can't have it like that. One shall be sure that when suffering from a disease, one shall not need to apply online to find the best-treated institutions. One must be directed to where the right and best treatment is given. There is a lot of fear and anxiety associated with cancer. I read the latest in the newspaper today about a desperate mother and how it went. When you get a cancer diagnosis, it does something to you. So it's important to connect somatic and psychiatry a lot closer in this picture as well. A national strategy plan related to cancer treatment and care has been presented today. It's a very important signal from the Council of State and the Government that a person wants to bet in this area. Not least, it is important that we get our own cancer strategy director, who will put this together and ensure that what we put on the agenda is as targeted and as well as possible. It is also important that the meeting between the cancer patient and the health service we have in Norway today develops. I think the most vulnerable and anxious thing we can experience is getting cancer. It is therefore important that the human interrelationship of the national strategy plan is emphasised. Not least, rehabilitation — not only physical rehabilitation but also mental and psychosocial rehabilitation after cancer. Several have spoken about prevention. I also see that one of the areas in the National Strategy Plan is prevention. Below we have this with public health and exercise. Encouraging people to take care of their health and body through an active life is good prevention. The good living and surrounding environment, where one takes into account noise, dust, car traffic, exhaust, etc., are also important factors in the prevention of various cancers. So is the work environment. I myself have worked in the graphic industry and seen this with the use of chemicals, and how much impact the working environment has on the health of people. Therefore, the working environment is an important area to look at. Prevention in all these areas is important. Exercise, diet, etc. youth and school-related needs to be an important part of the national strategy plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1214	All of them first: Thanks to the interpellant. The Progress Party has addressed the differences in cancer treatment in Norway on several occasions. One of the last big things that we all have in our memory is the matter of Helge Audestad and the discrimination that was done at the time at Haukeland Hospital. Many suggest that today's situation has not improved significantly. There's a big difference from part of the country to part of the country, and from hospital to hospital. This is unfair and wrong for the whole population, especially for the individual and the family who know it on the body. I would like to commend the Government for a national strategy to combat cancer. That's 0.7 million. kr more to coordinate this work, but I am afraid that this is something too small. What do the so-called experts say about what we need when it comes to cancer control? What's the review melody, about all of them, is the lack of money. All of them say that we don't give enough money. Although it is also pointed out that we need to have a more flexible authorisation system with regard to drugs, and that, in relation to very special things, fewer places to be treated, the review melody is the lack of money. What I want to point out, then, is something I feel as a major defect, namely that we do not have a demographic overview in Norway of the quality of what is being done. This should be absolutely essential. However, an overview of treatment quality, and the result of this, is absent. There is in many ways no link between free hospital choice and the information available to those who need it. I would like to mention here an example from Health Mid-Norway, where two hospital operations were carried out. At one hospital, there were eight times more likely to be reoperative than at the other hospital. I have no doubt about what I would have chosen. I would not have chosen the hospital that had eight times the probability that I would have to return to surgery again. Unfortunately, we are far behind many countries in terms of demographic performance and quality. But we believe that the patient should be focused, with free choice, this must be in place, so that free choice becomes a real choice, where the user actually contributes to promoting quality. The second major challenge, which has been addressed before, is today’s structure, with five independent health businesses, or health republics, where interaction, coordination and cooperation with each other and the exploitation of each other’s resources are largely absent. The lack of money, and the hopeless orientation of the various companies about this, triggers a protectionism, where survival becomes the most important. This harms the seventh and last patient offer and patient treatment, including cancer treatment. It's important that we get a different structure. It is important that we manage to coordinate and interact our forces within Health Norway. That's why it's important that we get a state hospital directorate in place that will work to ensure the population a much better offer than today. This will strengthen Health Norway in general, and it will strengthen cancer treatment and cancer research in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1237	Almost the entire health and care committee has now been in the pulpit, and that is perhaps the best proof that the representative Davøy has taken action with his interpellation. I think it is very good that the representative has raised this matter to the storeroom. I am very pleased that the Council of State has such a constructive and positive approach to this. All the elements of this case are important. I think the most important thing about the debate is that every time we have a debate on cancer in the public, some prejudices disappear. The fact that we're involved in giving cancer a face makes it much easier for those affected. And we can do that, because it's been a revolution in cancer over the last 30 years. In fact, we can cure more and more cancers – and most of them actually get fresh. Breast cancer is perhaps the most visible and glaring example of how development has progressed in a positive direction. It's not that many years since you removed the breast and literally got peeled to the leg because you didn't have a safe diagnosis. It was not known whether it was spread or not, but it was done for safety reasons, and many became disabled after such treatment. But despite the good progress, where most cancer patients are actually satisfied with the treatment they receive, the Council of State says that there is an improvement potential throughout the chain. I think of course the Council of States is right in that, and I'm pleased with that approach. Which is perhaps the most difficult of all, and which is also difficult to do with, is, of course, the anxiety, fear, waiting time. The waiting time is worse for cancer patients, not just to get the diagnosis, but the waiting time to know if it's spreading, the waiting time for sampling, the waiting time for one to get another hospital, the waiting time for the next check – maybe there's too little control, maybe there's too much control. I think it is agreed in this Chamber that effective treatment where one is diagnosed, where one gets surgery, gets cell poison, gets radiation treatment, gets follow-up at the same place, is the way cancer patients want us to go. So we're not going to lose sight of the fact that there are a lot of county hospitals, including in my home state, that have developed very good methods, that have very high competence in different cancers, and it's to be taken care of. I think the Council of State will agree with that. And if you're going to die of your cancer, pain relief and comfort can be given in local hospitals and in places other than where you get the acutely important treatment. The Council of State has agreed that Norway should be in the forefront of new methods and new drugs in the development of cancer. I think we're all satisfied with that, and the best medicine is going to be used no matter where we live. I'm very happy about that. I also think it shows that the government prioritises this area in the state council marking by hiring Kaasa, who will then work with this area in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1252	I would like to thank the participants in this debate here in Stortinget, not least the members of the Health and Welfare Committee, for a very good debate, and I would also like to thank the Council of State. I think it has been an important debate. And in all modesty, I want to mention that the previous government also had a strategic work going on in the field of cancer. We were in the process, and concrete actions were presented in the 2006 budget, and many of these points – and I would say of course – are also included in the new strategy plan, as the Council of State has so far presented it. I want to mention one area, and that is the area that Jan Bøhler addressed, namely prevention, which was also an important element of the previous government. It is quite right that social differences give rise to different potentials for disease development, including in the development of cancer. This is why it is important to have a preventive aspect in lifestyles and diets, and it must also be part of a long-term strategy — a good prevention and awareness-raising work in all settings. So I want to mention in particular the exciting grip that has been taken on hiring a new strategy director. As the Council of State pointed out, I also feel that part of the work to be done from there will be in the field of interaction – getting the various agencies, institutions, municipal and state levels to work together in a better way. I almost think of it as a follow-up also of the Wisloff Committee. And maybe this can give us exciting and fast experiences, because we're going into other plans later. I am thinking about the care plan for the elderly, where we have also been concerned about the lack of interaction between the different professional levels. So I think it's a very exciting grip the council here has taken. In the end, I would like to sum up that it is very positive that we are so united in this Chamber, and that my interpellation that went on equal treatment has been met with many good grips from the Government and the Council of State. Research is important in demonstrating the effectiveness of both medical treatment and other treatment. I would like to mention once again alleviating treatment, which the very many are concerned with, and the grant of relief and care at the end of life outside the hospital was also made permanent in the context of the 2006 budget. It is important that the authorities are in the forefront. I look forward to ending the discrimination we are still seeing in Norway today. The predictability of patients, in particular, is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1265	I also want to thank you for a very good debate. And I'm going to start where Gunn Olsen's representative ended, because I also think this is an area where it is a great potential for improvement. As the representative described it, the anxiety, fear and waiting time are something in the heart of everyone who is hit by this, and everyone who knows someone who is hit. I believe that the health care system must take this very seriously. The health system is doing it today, but here it is a potential for improvement. That's why it's important that there be more national coordination, so things go faster. And as the representative of Asphjell also said, we have to connect the somatic and psychiatry. The fact that many people who get cancer, understandably also have mental problems of different kinds, must be taken much more seriously than is the situation today – that is, the human dimension. It's a huge challenge. But I feel confident that someone in the future will be much better at it as well. Then I want to say in relation to the debate on prevention work is important or that it is not: cancer can affect everyone. It could also affect those who have been good at doing all the things right. But we can't talk away from the fact that touching, eating properly, not smoking, or, for that matter, not drinking too much alcohol can have a connection with some cancers. It doesn't mean that not everyone should get equal treatment when someone gets that kind of suffering, and it's not sure that it always has a connection with it, because there's also a genetic part inside of it, so it's important to emphasize that one shouldn't be moralistic here. But pretending to be preventive work for some cancers has no connection with that kind of suffering, I really don't think it's right. That's why the government is involved in the strategy we're now presenting. The general must, of course, not be able to save as many lives as possible, to avoid so many becoming ill. If the prevention work can help some to avoid getting this disease, I think we're all going to be very happy. So until the representative Nesvik picked up, to look at the whole system: it's in what we're doing now. One can be sure that one is offered equivalent treatment, equivalent medicines, etc., wherever one lives in the country. I have thought many times when I see people going to torch for the local hospital – and it probably has several of the representatives in the room too – that I can see this commitment, in many facets. But what's interesting is that when some people who've gone in such a torch, sails get seriously ill, or when someone knows, they get seriously ill, there are very many of these who won't be treated in the nearest hospital. They want to go to the hospital they know has the best treatment. That is why I believe that in this area – as in some other areas – it is not either – or. Where there is a need for training, one – and I perceive it to be a broad consensus on it – needs to specialise more. But there's a lot of other things that you can let the local hospitals do. Thank you again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1280	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1298	It is a very important debate we have just concluded – but it is also an important debate we are now going to address. It will be about those for whom there is no healing treatment, but for whom we have a great responsibility to ensure a good relief treatment and a worthy care for. Ensuring good and dignified care at the end of life is one of the most demanding tasks in health care. Every day, people experience severe illness and near loss, which forces them into a completely changed life situation. For most people, it means that they become heavily dependent on others. They lose the opportunity to make their own choices, and they lose control of their own lives. We meet such challenges very differently, depending on how prepared we are, on the life situation we are in, on the reactions in the environment and, not least, on the help provided by the health and care services. Respect for human dignity is put on a serious test when we meet people in the final phase of life. It is in such situations that real human vision and attitudes in health care and society, in other words, become clear and visible. It's just close to the extremes we find the value test stones in our society. Although the offer has improved considerably in recent years, there are still many examples of severe ill and dying getting inadequate help. In order to counteract the demands for health care to contribute to the self-chosen end of life, it is important to ensure that the offer given to people at the end of life is as good as possible, both human and professional. The desire for active death help must be met with active life support. The demand for death aid often escapes from an experience of unworthiness. Therefore, there is a need to continue to invest in health care for a comprehensive life support. It requires an increased effort for relieving treatment where there is no curative treatment for the disease. Palliative treatment aims at improving patients’ quality of life and maintaining their function as long as possible. Palliative medicine deals with the treatment, research and professional development of patients with an incurable disease and short life expectancy. Traditionally, the subject has included patients with cancer, but the treatment principle is relevant for other disease groups. The goal of all palliative treatment is to provide the patient and his or her family with the best possible quality of life. Specialisation in the healthcare system can help to eliminate the overall burden of care. Here, the hospice philosophy has shown its way. The value base of the hospice philosophy is optimal treatment and care and care aimed at the physical, mental, social, spiritual and existential needs of patients. We know that good, thoughtful offers create trust and security for patients, for relatives and for health professionals. The number of elderly cancers and chronically ill people who will need a great deal of care and care at the end of their life will increase in the years to come. Then it is important to be well prepared. The design of the provision of care at the end of life must take into account the different desires and needs of people. Today, about two out of five die in hospitals. Same number of doors in nursing homes. One in five dies at home. We believe it is both important and right to give serious sick and dying a real choice as to where they want to spend the last days of life. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that we are a multicultural society, and where there are different views of what a person experiences as a worthy end to life. For many it will be important to be at home. Others want – and feel more secure – to be somewhere else where they can rest and rest. This requires that we both provide good, home-based care and care while building more hospices. I have visited several hospices, including Hospice Stabeck, and see how well and thoughtfully they care seriously sick and dying and their relatives. If more patients are to be given the opportunity to end their lives at home in line with their own wishes, we need to provide them and their dependants with security in order to obtain qualified help. Ambulatory palliative teams may provide this security, provided that flexible arrangements are in place for community health services and specialist health services to cooperate on a comprehensive offer. Private offers funded by the public can be an important resource in the provision of services to the seriously ill and dying. Such offers must be adapted to the ordinary service and be part of the total offer to the individual patient. Private, voluntary and non-profit institutions have long traditions as important contributors to healthcare. The right considers that this effort is a major resource that must have a place in the care of the seriously ill and dying also in the future. The provision of care at the end of life has been strengthened in recent years. Regional centres of excellence have been established for the relief of health care in all health regions, which carry out education, advice and research. These centres of excellence shall be drivers of relief and care throughout the region. The cancer plan has helped to expand and ensure the operation of hospice facilities in hospitals, mobile teams and municipal hospitals. Resources have been allocated for the operation of the hospice in connection with Haraldsplaats Diakonale Hospital in Bergen and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital in Oslo. Special care units for cancer patients have also been set up, among others. We'll carry hospitals and St. Olav's Hospital. Both the municipal health service and the specialist health service shall establish and maintain the provision of relief through their framework appropriations. However, the cooperative government wanted to invest in particular in the provision of relieving treatment and therefore established an exceptional grant for relieving outside hospital treatment. The subsidy is in 2006 of 21.1 million. kr and goes to project under the direction of municipal health services and private organisations. The co-operation administration also introduced its own outpatient tariffs for reducing treatment and additional reimbursement through the ISF system. However, we face a significant challenge in providing more good treatment and decent care at the end of life. Today only receive 20 pst. of all persons dying an offer from a reliever unit. Therefore, the Right believes it is necessary to establish more ambulatory teams and hospices, as an alternative offer to those who want it. Such offers require not least good interaction between specialist health services and municipalities. In addition, it is essential that we have funding solutions that stimulate such measures. I am also concerned that the conditions for relatives who want to deal with unwholesome sick people need to be better organised. In the right, there is an unmet need in this area. There are many relatives who want to be able to be with and take care of their closest ones at home if they are incurably ill, and if the one who is ill wants it. I believe that today's arrangements do not fully satisfy this need. There is a lack of flexibility in today's system. I think we have to be willing to think again and adapt the arrangements according to the need. There is an equal need for good care at the end of life as it is at the beginning of life. Therefore, it should be possible to withdraw some form of leave, as is currently the case with maternity leave. Today, it is possible to make use of the care allowance scheme from the social security system in the absence of work. Care allowance is provided for 20 days. There is also a care pay scheme in the municipalities. I would like to ask the Council to consider whether there is a need to extend the number of days spent on care, for example. up to six months, where possible, for those who care for a close relative in the home, and to see if there are other flexible solutions that meet the needs of both the sick and the family. This is about providing the best possible care, the best possible security and the most dignified situation and the end for people in the final phase of life. I look forward to hearing the Council of State's assessments and answers on this concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1340	Caring at the end of life is an important topic. The initiative taken by the interpellant through this interpellant is therefore price-priced. The work to facilitate the experience of more people and their relatives in the last phase of life, with less pain and less despair, is highly timely. Many people fear – understandably – a painful death process, and many fear death itself. We have a responsibility to ensure that the patient gets a worthy and as little painful end to life as possible. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has said that the offer of patients in the final phase of life needs to be further developed. As the representative, Sjøli, too, wanted to spend the last part of his life in or near his own home – understandably enough. Meeting death in a safe and familiar environment I think is important both for the patient and for the relatives. The government has therefore been aware that the provision of health care to these patients needs to be further developed so that this wish can be fulfilled as far as possible. This means that we have to make good offers both in hospitals, in hospitals, and not least in home health care. Today it is such that approx. 40 pst. die in hospital, 38 pst. dies in a nursing home and 19 p.m. dies at home. Almost half of those who die die die of cardiovascular disease. Many of these meet a sudden death, while others, for example: cancer patients, who are known to undergo longer and often painful death rates. Between 70 and 90 pst. the cancer patients have severe pain in the closing phase of the disease course. It is then important to ensure good symptomatic treatment, proper care and good care in the broad sense of these patients. As is well known, a number of regional centres of excellence are established under the direction of healthcare companies which have an advisory and collaborative role in relation to municipalities. In all health regions, there are separate centres of expertise for relieving treatment. A total of 18 enterprises in all health regions have established their own hospital services offering relief. In total, these have 84 bed places. In addition, 18 palliative teams are established in all health regions to assist individual patients and the care and care of municipalities. A few weeks ago, I was with me and opened a center in Westfold. There, this group of cancer and pain patients receives a highly qualified offer near their home. I believe that is a fine and absolutely necessary offer, which we need more of in other parts of the country as well. Since 2002, we have had a grant scheme of around 15 million. kr per. years that have gone on to strengthen the provision of relief and care at the end of life outside hospitals in addition to the ordinary appropriations. The measures that have been prioritised have gone to build up their own units and beds in hospitals and to develop palliative teams. In addition, there are a number of skills-enhancing measures to ensure that employees are better informed about relieving treatment. As a result of this scheme, 169 bed places are established in the hospitals, and training for the staff in the care services of the municipalities has been completed. A number of hospice sites have also received grants. About half of all treatment-sickness centres are in Health East or Health South — where population concentration is highest — but all health regions have been allocated funds through this scheme in 2005. The grant scheme must also be seen in the context of the activities of the so-called educational hospitals. Such hospitals are established in each health region, and these hospitals have a particular focus on care, care and treatment of the dying. Cooperation has been established with the National Knowledge Centre for Health, Hospitals, Colleges, Universities and others with which it is natural to cooperate. The measure has gradually become well known and has reached its status. I believe that these educational hospitals contribute to increased quality, both through research and technical development projects, which are anchored in the nursing home, and in cooperation with other hospitals in other municipalities. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is responsible for disseminating and making easily accessible experiences and results to other municipalities and partners, i.e. one can learn from one another. However, ensuring the competence of municipal services is a challenge. More than half of the municipalities in the country are known to have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. This sets out specific requirements for organisation in order to provide a quality service. Against this background, we want the grant scheme for relieving treatment to give priority to projects designed to provide good professional development and empowerment and with national transfer value. The measures must also be seen in the context of the new national cancer strategy, as discussed in the previous debate. This strategy says something about how we need to be better at following up on municipal services. The measures must be seen in the context of educational hospitals which ensure practical research and professional development. I also want to take into account that it is important to ensure the relatives' organisations, so that they are also heard in a perhaps better way than the case is today. The Cancer Association and other actors become active co-players in developing good services even in the final phase of life. Relieving treatment is a subject of strong development. New and improved methods are emerging and the offer is expanded. There is a high level of involvement among professionals in the field, and there are good professional standards and good interdisciplinary cooperation. One of the main challenges, as I have already mentioned, is to ensure that there is sufficient and good competence across Norway, both in small and large municipalities. In addition to the measures I have already mentioned, the strengthening of the municipal economy by the Government will also ensure that municipalities can recruit new professionals, but also further develop and further train those already employed, which is also important. So the government is busy helping us to do even more in this field. We are in the process, and in that context, of course, in addition to what I have now said and said, on which the representative Sjöli challenged me, it will be things that will also be considered in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1366	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a good answer. I know that the Council of State has a great deal of commitment in this area, and not least I will also pay tribute to the national strategy that has now been put forward. I hope it will be an overall strategy that will also include what has been the theme now, getting a good care at the end of life. This was not very much mentioned when talking about strategy in the previous debate, but it was perhaps because it was going to come now. But it's about dignity, and it's about the basic values in our society, how we take care of the absolutely weakest, and how we're going to shake out of this life – that means a lot – with a dignity and a good care where you get relief for the pain you might have. There's absolute room for improvement in this area, and I think it's important to have more strategies here, both a home-based care and an ambulance team that can come home. Having good leave arrangements for relatives in such a situation is also socio-economically very economical – if there are any who would think this would be a cost – and also hospice and getting integrated hospice philosophy into the treatment of sick and dying even in sick homes, I think it is very important. I am pleased that the Council of State also confirmed that she will follow up the grant schemes provided by the Cooperation Government in this area. I am also concerned about children and young people and their meeting with death and grief, and I think that is a particular challenge. It turns out that grief in children and young people can lead to health problems and behavioural difficulties, and that young people are most vulnerable. Following up work on preparedness plans in kindergartens and schools and a conscious information work in this area, I believe that is important. I could imagine what the Council of State would promote in this area, and also in the case of health professionals, in basic education, further training and further training — and not only health professionals, but all those concerned with the end of life. This applies to teachers, pre-school teachers, funeral agents, police — anyone dealing with someone who is in that phase and their relatives. This also applies to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1375	I perceive that the interpellant and the undersigned agree on the vast majority of things and what is the goal, namely that we should get better care for serious sick people who are dying and in the final phase of life. Then it's about looking at the whole thing here as well, as we have to in other areas. That is why it is also important to link the debate we had in the previous round with the one we now have, but of course in a broad sense. I fully agree with Mr Sjöli that this is a matter of dignity. It's going to be a big deal. Clearly, these are extremely difficult situations, especially for those involved, their relatives, and also for health professionals. Then it's very strong on my heart to put the kids in focus, which I understand is that it also does for the representative Sjøli and certainly for everyone else here, both inside and outside this hall. I think we've been too little good at it, both in this area, which is perhaps some of the most demanding, and also in other contexts – either when kids themselves get seriously ill, or when one of the parents or some of the closest ones gets seriously ill. Where are the kids up in all this? I do not have the phase response or the recipe for how we should get better today, but at least I can confirm that I am very concerned about this. We're working on it. We've started a work in psychiatry, which in itself is something completely different, where we're now pulling kids in terms of how they're going to behave. So we also have to do that right over here. I can only confirm that here I will come back with measures, but I do not have all the phase responses today. It is also important that those who meet them — health professionals and others — can do enough about how this is to be handled, and not least that it is a follow-up through kindergartens and schools. I agree with the representative, Sjøli, that hospice is an all-round good offer. We should probably have more of them and, as far as possible, organise a care that is on the premises of those who are actually affected. We know that there are probably even more people who want to end their lives at home, but who today may not be able to do it for different reasons. One should strive for one to fulfill the wishes that are. When this is not possible, I believe that in addition to the hospital and hospital, the hospice is a very important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1390	The interpellant focuses on a topic that can often be very difficult to talk about, which very many people don't like to talk about. Good care at the end of life means a lot to the person concerned, and not least to those who are related and who remain. Care should provide relief to both parties, both physically and mentally. Because this is so complex, it's also very difficult. The Soria Moria Declaration also mentions this as a challenge for the future. How do we do the best for those who are in the situation? How do we do the best for those who are going to work on this? How are we going to make the best offer? Today's patients who need palliative treatment, it's cancer or other disease, often have thoughts about how you want to live in the last few years maybe much more than the generations that have been before. Many have very specific wishes and opinions, and they should also be fulfilled as far as possible. Some people don't have the energy to think at all, or don't get the chance of a choice because the course of the disease is so fast, or they're alone without relatives. Therefore, everything needs to be optimised for all those mentioned here. There must be capacity in hospitals, hospitals and hospice for those who want it, and there must be security, help and pain relief well enough at home for those who want it. In order to provide safety, assistance and support to relatives, well-developed home care with broad competence is the most important actor. The newly opened centre mentioned by the Council of State in Westfold is one of the good offers available. It is built up with good thoughts for palliative treatment. It shows that there is a lot of great things going on around and a lot of things that are well organized for terminal care, also around the municipalities. But unfortunately not everything is as good, and the offer is not as good in the whole country. I want to highlight the role of local hospitals in this matter. It seems to me to be important in the future in terms of home environment, smaller relationships and in relation to the functional distribution debate – in line with NOU 1999:2, where we want care in the community. In order to get the good offers, we probably need professional personnel. Training and knowledge building is necessary. Many are plagued by severe pain, mental suffering, the fear of dying, the fear of leaving them as one has loved, and the question of how the relatives will deal with what is happening. It shall be maintained by personnel who shall be available, up-to-date and present and shall find solutions. It is also important that there is continuity of care personnel because it creates security for those in the situation. Again, it means that there must be enough people in the care and care sector. Multi-disciplinaryism is also necessary. Cooperation is an important and necessary part of the response chain. One of the main challenges, as I have mentioned, is to ensure that there is sufficient and good competence in municipal services. A strengthened community economy will give home health care more time, more staff and more space for the important part of care. We're doing something about that. The surroundings around the sick one are also part of the palliative care. Rooms that one can put on, and that invite private life, where the family can be together in this difficult time, are important to take with them. There are several places done, and it should be developed further. I want to mention nutrition in a little sentence, but with a completely different angle than the one we tend to have, where it's going to be good. No, it's better to have a good time. The provision and knowledge of good organization and good food can create the good times when necessary. It's important, as the interpellant says, that we are prepared for the increasing level of palliative care that will bring about the constant development and incidence of cancer. I think that more people will want to be at home in a safe environment lately, but then we have to make sure that the municipalities have professional personnel and knowledge enough to handle it. I think we have to venture to think of more alternatives in how we're going to have the palliative care, where it's going to be, and make it natural to die as a last part of life. Care at the end of life is important, and I think we agree that it must be addressed with dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1413	I want to start by thanking the interpellant who has traveled this interpellant, and also the interpellant who traveled the previous, for very important themes, which it is important to take up and discuss thoroughly, even though a plan has been made. It's a fact that more and more people get cancer. More and more people are being treated for a long time, but unfortunately there is a part that gets the saddest message that nothing can be done anymore, and that they go into a final phase. Then pain relief, care and care are important, and the primary focus is not on disease control, but on the quality of life of the patient and its relatives. The aim of this treatment shall be care, care and improved quality of life in the most recent period of the death process. It shall not extend life or extend the death process. The proximity of the home in the last phase will be desirable and important for most. The goal is that the patient should be at home as long as possible. This is only possible if the health care system is organised as a continuous chain with a high degree of flexibility. In addition, it is necessary to include the family as a resource, and to prepare and teach relatives the care of the seriously ill. Doctors and nurses will be the most central in a palliative team together with a pastor, physiotherapist, socionomist, nutritionist, ergotterapeut and psychologist as well as others. There will be a greater need for strengthening home-based care and suitable facilities in nursing homes. Small units should be separated from normal nursing homes where the care factor is high – recommended 1.5. It is not a question of putting this patient group into vacant regular hospitalisations. There is a need for very special offers where you can get the peace and framework around this necessary. The second line service must have suitable bed units, outpatient clinics and outpatient teams in central hospitals and larger local hospitals. It is said that there are currently between 2000 and 3000 people with so complex pains and disease images that they require skills that are not sufficiently available, either in the first or second line service. Palliation is also given to patients with, among others: chronic long-term cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, MS and AIDS. We are likely to see an increasing need for this type of care and care provision in the coming years, including in the case of other diseases. Unfortunately, the patient is often referred to palliative teams and units late in the course of the disease. The pressure on hospitals means that complex problems need to be tackled more and more in hospitals. The dying are getting older, and 40 pst. of all deaths in Norway occur in hospitals. The palliation of the oldest age group poses special challenges, both of a medical-professional and psychosocial nature. This means that the specialists in palliative medicine must be able to assist the hospital doctor in consultations and that the other competencies of the team can be used. There must also be more doctors entering hospitals and in these kinds of services. There is clearly a need to increase medical resources and to provide special training in palliative medicine for several hospital doctors. There is a need for formalised competence, systematic continuing training, organisation of palliation as an integral part of the public health system, and not least financial incentives, which will enable hospitals and the community health service to comply with these recommendations. Through earmarked funds from the State budget, 15 million have been allocated in 2004 and 2005. kr for projects in the field of relieving treatment. I contacted Fredrikstad Municipality, and they had received 250,000 kroner last year, which they very much appreciated. There was no palliative hospital ward, not a single place, nor was it planned. The explanation was quite simple: the financing of relief treatment in hospitals has been ensured by the ISF scheme related to the DRG code. Institutions have special requirements to trigger this tariff. The problem is that the money is not paid to the nursing homes. Funding for relieving treatment in hospitals is still not in place. It is one of the greatest challenges for the further development of palliative offers in the coming period, and needs a quick solution. It's all about funding care and care, and maybe it's the solution that the money follows the patient. This is a plug in the system, that at the moment that the patient moves into the community health service or in a nursing home, it doesn't come with money. It applies to the financing of both medicine and personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1439	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. Since there are only a few speakers left, the President will propose that the meeting continue until today's map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1442	This is also an important interpellation, just as the one we have just debated was. It is very important to ensure the need for good relief and care for the dying, including the physical, mental, social and spiritual needs of the patient and his relatives, to which the interpellant sail was subjected. On April 25, I had the pleasure of attending the opening of the Centre for Relieving Treatment at the Hospital in Westfold. Brustad County Council understood the opening itself, and she stressed that some of the patients in need of relief have had such a complex form of disease that they have stood without a good offer. With the opening of the hospital centre in Vestfold, this group has received a highly qualified offer near its home. The offer included a bed post, an ambulance team and an outpatient clinic, and there were many waiting to congratulate. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the offer of patients in the final phase of life must be further developed. The health service must be developed in close proximity to the home of the users. The national strategy for cancer, presented today, will focus on relieving treatment. One of those who spoke during the opening of the Centre for Relieving Treatment in Tønsberg is the very well-recognized professor of relieving medicine – now also strategic director – Stein Kaasa, who has been mentioned earlier today. He gave special attention to the need for randomised studies in this field. He referred to studies of what we want when we're going to die, something more have been about earlier. These studies show, not surprisingly, that many people want to die at home. At the same time, it is clear that a prerequisite here is that everything is arranged for the patient and the patient's family. Some have probably been asked quite a long time before it might be relevant that you should die, and so they might have a different attitude to it than they would if they were in the middle of it. It is clear that it will be possible to accommodate the patient's own home so well that at the end of the day it will be something you want. Therefore, it is very important to ensure good follow-up and care in hospitals, not least in hospitals, as well as access to hospice. It is important to bear in mind that what is offered to the patient is of great importance to relatives even after the patient has died, which has also been discussed by many. In order to ensure an adequate supply in nursing homes, how many spend their last lifetime, doctors, nurses, good provision of continuing training and integration between palliative units and nursing homes, including, where appropriate, local hospitals, are needed. The representative, Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen, was inside. We think this will play a greater role in this type of treatment in the future. SV has long been concerned with getting a national minimum standard for medical coverage at home. Whatever means we end up with, it is important that good and sound medical coverage is effectively provided. Today we know that it is not uncommon for doctors to have four hours in 70 patients, which is unsustainable. That is why this is being worked on by the Government. In addition, it is important to strengthen geriatrics. We know that systematic, geriatric intervention improves patient survival. A little about palliation in the end: palliative culture involves approach-respective and targeted focus on open communication and peer-to-peer work and coordination Palliation is characterised by symptom relief, with a background in both physical, mental, social and spiritual or existential conditions. The patient and family need a broad approach from many professionals. Doctors and nurses will be the most central, but clergyman or perhaps imam, physiotherapist, socionomist, nutritionist, ergot therapist and psychologist can all make important contributions to a treatment team. It is also important to be close to home, and there is a great need for research and development. In Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association, no. 3 2006, recommended Professor Stein Kaasa and others. the following: All doctors need basic training in palliation, and the teaching of the medical study needs to be strengthened.Pallision should be integrated into specialist training in relevant clinical specialities.Palliative medicine should become a supplementary speciality.There is a great need for research in palliative medicine, and it should be set up by time-limited, ear-marked, state funds for palliative research.Palliative medicine should be established at all medical faculties. This is at least something we should consider further. I am also pleased that the Council of State mentions the related organisations, including the Cancer Association, especially in its contribution, because voluntary user organisations are important and need to be consulted and included in policy-making. I would also like to mention the great work that, among other things, The Franciscan aid does.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1504	Today's two interpellations fit into each other's hands and put important themes on the agenda. The co-operation administration implemented a number of measures to improve the health care of patients in the final phase of life. Among other things, this was focused in the national cancer care plan and in the further strategic work on cancer care. A 2004 report on the national strategy for work in the care of cancer highlighted the continued potential for improvement in the possibilities for relieving treatment in the final phase of life. I think it is very positive that the Minister of Health will follow this up. In particular, it is important to formulate a common value basis for life support and relief treatment. In the event of an incurable disease and in the end of life, health care must contribute to bringing patients and relatives together a worthwhile and valuable time. There is a need for further strengthening of the services offered for relieving treatment. The Christian People's Party wants to expand hospice areas that give patients in the final phase of life a complete offer, including: by providing relief and care for other needs, including existential and spiritual. More efforts should be made to build up outpatient treatment teams to provide treatment and care at home if necessary. Decentralised offers are important, so that everyone is guaranteed a good offer, regardless of where you live in the country. This applies both to specialist health services and to municipal health services. In the South’s Hospital in Kristiansand, a formidable effort has been made in recent years for cancer care. Through the Radiation reaction, the people of the South have helped to provide funds for radiation machines in the hospital. Radiation machines in the Centers for Cancer Treatment have allowed local radiation, which has enabled the state of the South, which is now at a national top level in the field of radiation therapy. At the end of the operation, the initiators entered into a new partnership with the hospital and the Kristiansand Sanity Association to build a new department to offer specialised relief treatment to people with severe disease with short life expectancy. The new department shall include daily items and day-care, and the ambulatory relief team shall also be associated with the department. The cost of the construction is 28.5 million. kr. The population of the south has collected 10 million. kr, Kristiansand Sanity Association has granted 10 million. and the Southland hospital would take the remaining 8 million. kr. The building was completed and was to be opened in January 2005. Personnel were employed, and there were competent personnel, as the Council of State stressed the importance of. Everything was done. However, one month before the opening, the hospital gave counter notice: the department was not to be opened yet, it was suspended until January 2006. The department was not then opened, but it was suspended until January 2007. This has frustrated the contributors and the population of the South. This is an offer to people who really need to be cared for. The Christian People's Party believes that alleviating treatment for people in the final phase of their lives must be given priority. I would like to ask if the Council of State in its dialogue with the hospital management can address this, so that this offer does not become a balancing item because of the economy. The department is finished, the beds are even furnished. The exposure shown by the population to care for people with a serious illness must be taken seriously. This great offer must become a reality. What will the Council of State do to strengthen the provision of care at the end of life, so that everyone is provided with relief, regardless of where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1521	It is important both for patients and for relatives to be confident that they will meet with optimal palliative treatment when active curative treatment is no longer relevant. As a hospital priest, I was able to follow many people through a course of illness where it changed from hope to despair, but also from despair to hope. The uncertainty about the forward projections, the fear of pain, and not least the long and heavy process of saying good-bye to life, must be met by a set of instruments. In this situation, the healthcare system, specialist health services and community health services shall interact in such a way that both patients and their relatives are free from insecurity. Palliative care is far more than just pain-relieving medicine. It is important and often requires very close and good follow-up for symptomatic treatment to have a good effect. Governments say in their response that 18 health businesses have established their own hospital facilities that provide relief. But it is important to stress that there are offers of relieving treatment also at many other departments and bedposts and not only where there are registered own palliative bedposts, as one talks about. In several hospital wards, it works so that the patient may be operated on for cancer diagnosis, get back to the same department when he or she had to want it and need it, always open-ended, so that the patient can be at home for a period of time and then come to hospital and get symptomatic treatment, get the same people to talk to each time, meet the same staff, whenever they wish. Such arrangements work very, very well. In the case of hospice, as we have heard, there are many good examples of how patients can get good follow-up. In the mountains we have Sunniva Hospice as an example. We have day-care centres with outpatient clinics, follow-up to the community health service where employees from hospice make home visits and attend, a user volunteer, one with care for relatives, and one has survivors’ collections when they have followed them are dead. Palliative care is about something far more than just pain relief with medications. Having one to talk to and get help on existential issues is an important aspect of being involved and contributing to the patient’s security for what lies ahead. The Hospice movement, of which we have several in Norway, has, together with other similar measures, a very important task of building skills for staff, among others. in the community health service, in addition to being a complement to the active treatment. The government appropriations granted annually are important for that type of activity. In the case of nursing homes, the Council of State underlines the important role of educational health homes as builders of competences. The fact that some nursing homes are given special tasks, where you can arrange both courses and seminars, continue training for health professionals around the municipality of Norway, is actually very important. There is an important role for teaching homes. It is said that about 40 pst. hospital death, 40 pst. die on nursing homes and 10 pst. dies at home. I've met many patients – and it's important to underline – who want to be at home, and who get very good follow-up when they're at home, but how often there comes to a point where they – and not least they look at the relatives – actually want to get back to the hospital, whether it's maybe just a few days before life ebbs out. The statistics are not quite true about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1541	Thank you to the representative Sjøli for putting the search light on care at the end of life. It's a very important topic. Today we know that there comes a growing group of elderly and other sick people who at the end of their life want to die at home. This concern requires a high level of respect, care and professional understanding, together with requirements for individual patient safety. Care at the end of life will, for example: involve respect for the integrity and sensitivity of the patient to the physical, mental and spiritual and social problems of the patient. We need a holistic approach in this sector also in relation to the patient. We must give the patient the best possible quality of life during a difficult period. This requires healthcare professionals who both have a high level of understanding and competence to provide adequate care in consultation with the individual patient. The Council of State said that the educational home can provide a high level of competence, and I agree that this is an important offer. Another important element of health law is that no one can be subjected to treatment against their will. Choice to die in a hospital or to die at home and advice about it also requires respect and competence from care providers. There is a great deal of pressure on the municipalities in these cases. Today there is much shorter treatment time, and many want to die at home. For municipalities that have little contact with the problem, good cooperation with the specialist health service must be ensured. The open-ended return system, where the patient can contact the hospital if needed, is important. The representative, Sjøli, wants several sick homes for palliative care. In many nursing homes in small municipalities, the point is not necessarily to set up own nursing homes for palliative treatment, but to upgrade some of the nursing homes’ short-term places and thus provide a high degree of flexibility in the system. The thinking of the Hospice philosophy is important in order to ensure the integrity of dying people in the care services. Today, there is further training for nurses and caregivers in this field. I would like to ask the Council of State if there is any willingness of the Government to pursue further training in a relieving treatment for these groups. Local hospitals are mentioned, and they are important. Several local hospitals cooperate with the local health service, and it is important that one in the municipalities has qualified staff and that they have the possibility of flexibility. This is not a static system, but people who work interdisciplinaryly have to follow the patient. In this field, there is a high level of administration of pain relief, proper nutrition and mental support. You need great competence to be able to do this. The co-operation government has invested in this in the previous period, and in the years that come, it needs to further invest, a commitment that meets the needs of an ever-increasing palliative treatment of older and younger sick people. Stepping up recruitment plans for continuing training in palliative medicine is an important prerequisite for strengthening the provision of care at the end of life. The representative Woie Duesund mentioned the effort that people in the South have made for cancer treatment at the Sørland Hospital. That department must be given priority. The left believes it is important to have a well-developed system of ambulance teams that can assist patients and not least relatives in both hospitals and community health services. This can be a good, flexible scheme in many small municipalities. I think that is a significant argument in the context of further building-up of care at the end of life, by reducing pain, for example. terminal stage cancer. It is also important to involve relatives who need support and information. The left wants to influence the municipalities to facilitate the ambulance team. How can the Council of State provide enough qualified staff to ensure care at the end of life? This is about dignity and quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1569	The President must ask for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1572	I would like to thank the Council of State and the representatives for a good debate. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus on these questions. Of course, I had not expected anything else either, but I believe that it is important to focus on this area. I also hope we can come back to these questions when we are going to deal with the care notification that the Council of State has notified in June, but also when it comes to the treatment of the national cancer strategy that the Council of State has presented today. I am pleased that the Council of State and several representatives have mentioned the organisations of the relatives and what they have to contribute. They have enormous experience and skills that it is important to get involved in this work. The quality of the various services in the care of the elderly and the care of all those with an incurable disease are important, yes, it is essential for individuals to feel secure that they have received necessary and good help when they need it. The last months of life are an important part of life, and the quality of life of the weakest, the needy old, the seriously ill and dying must be better. Life can be felt as valuable even at the end of society's efforts, and the time near death is of great importance both to the one who will die and to those who will live on. Life experience shall be disseminated, life shall be summed up, responsibility shall be transferred to new generations, and community and time with its closest is important. Several must have the opportunity to spend more time with the nearest, to be at home at the end of life if they want it. Being able to end their lives at home or with the closest ones confirms our identity, our dignity and our belongings. Many have unnecessarily long hospital stays last year. Therefore, it is necessary to extend the offers at our nursing home and to facilitate good and safe care at home for those who want it. I am pleased that the Council of State has also said so clearly that they will facilitate more hospice. Finally, I would like to thank the Council of State and all the representatives for a good debate. Now it is important that words follow action, and that we are all aware that action requires increased financial and human resources. But I expect that we will come back to this in connection with the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1583	It is an important topic that is on the agenda today, and it is a very difficult topic. Like the representative, Sjöli, I perceive that there is a very broad consensus on the goal, and also on what is needed to get there. Several have been concerned with the future and role of local hospitals in this respect. It is clear that they will also have to play a stronger role in the future than is the case today, along with all that has arisen in the debate on home health care, on home-based services, hospice, etc. And it's clear that it's essential that we have enough people in the sector who have enough time, and that they can do a lot about what we're talking about here. Then there are several people who have been involved in the environment. I've also visited some hospice, like several representatives, and it's clear that it looks nice, that there are colors, that there are images, etc. also plays into difficult situations. Summaries: it's doing a lot of good in this area. We're not on target. That's why it's important that there's such broad consensus, because then it's also possible to do something about it. In the end, I would like to say to the representative Woie Duesund about what was taken up about Kristiansand Hospital, that I will deal with that with Health-South. They are the ones who decide how they prioritise, but I will at least promise to check the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1596	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1602	The size should now go to voting. In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1612	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to initiate work on the statutory right of the relatives to an independent review where there is disagreement between the relatives and the medical professional as to whether treatment should be continued or terminated.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1638	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of a psychiatric ambulance service in all regional health establishments according to the model of Health Bergen.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1660	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-15.ana.ud1864e1775	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
