ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e32	The representative Rune J. Skjellera, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e41	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e48	On behalf of Petter Løvik, Svein Flätten, Kari Lise Holmberg, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I would like to suggest that we strengthen employees' participation in our own company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e53	The representative Per Ove Width will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e56	On behalf of Siv Jensen, Per Roar Bredvold, Henning Skumsvoll and myself, proposals are being made to set up a defence commission to review the role and framework of defence in the new security policy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. As can be seen from the agenda presented in the amended version, the oral question procedure expires. This has been decided by the Presidency of Storting, after consultation with the parliamentary leaders and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e75	We have behind us a week of events Norway has not experienced the spouse of. We've seen furious people demonstrate against our country, embassies in fires and flags that are trodden on and burned. We have seen attacks and threats against people working for understanding between countries and for economic and social progress – and yesterday armed extremists attacked a small Norwegian force and their allies in Afghanistan. These are amazing images, and many have felt concerned about evolution. Especially does it happen to us because we ourselves do not feel that we are in conflict with any country, any people or any religion. On the contrary, as the Foreign Minister's statement here today will show, Norway is looking for the best way of playing a role as a bridge builder and a driver of social and economic development. This is also the main picture of our country out in the world. We use great resources to facilitate peaceful development in many conflicts. Our soldiers are making a great effort to stabilize conflict situations. Our assistance is to combat poverty and help people and countries for a better future. All this work will continue. On such a background, what has happened, on the one hand, is an image of how close we have come together, and on the other hand, an image of how many obstacles there are to overcome. We have one world, but the world of mankind is not yet one with itself. The world has become so that every word is spread to all corners of the world at the speed of light, but where the cultural prerequisites for understanding and interpreting the lives of others have not kept pace with the development of communication technology. We have a multicultural society, with different perspectives and different norms, also in our own country. Our generation's great task is to ensure that cultures can find together in tolerance, that we avoid arrogance, and that the work of realising the fundamental freedoms that lie in human rights wins over the counterpowers. The estimates against Norway are not an expression of Muslim attitudes towards Norway. They are an expression of some extreme attitudes towards Norway. It shows not least the clear rejection of the attacks we have seen from Norwegian Muslims. There are also reports from the countries where there have been unrest, now last from Iran, which testify that many are taking a break from their countrymen's attacks on Norwegian embassies. We can learn a lot from the values of others, but in some areas we are uncompromising. We do not accept violence against innocent people. We're also going to have to have a lot of tolerance for other forms of expression. But it hurts us when our flag is drawn on and burned. Norwegian Muslims also react to this. The Norwegian flag is also their flag. Many feel anxious after what has happened in the last few days. Many Nordics with a migrant background feel insecure about the images of raging crowds of people. Many also feel insecure about counter-reactions and discrimination. I understand that many people become uncertain in such a situation. At the same time, I want everyone to know that the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian police are constantly concerned about how we can best protect the security of everyone living in our country. Police vigilance has increased. The safety of exposed persons is assessed on an ongoing basis. I am pleased that the police continue to assess the level of threats in Norway as moderate. There are no concrete threats to Norway or foreign interests in our country. We are currently working on the safety of the Nordics abroad. Ambassadors, military forces and other Nordics are constantly being briefed on the situation. Our foreign stations in the affected areas have increased preparedness. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has contacted a number of governments to ensure that they respect their obligations regarding the security of Norwegian embassies and those working there. We don't want and don't want to accept that there are divisions between human groups. We must and must be a country that succeeds in integration policy. We want a country with space for different opinions, opinions and beliefs. We cannot pursue these goals if we go along with what for us are fundamental freedoms, such as freedom from fear, freedom from violence or oppression, and freedom from freedom of expression – freedoms that must be fought to extend every day. Yesterday morning there was a very serious situation when 200-300 armed Afghan extremists attacked the headquarters of the regional stabilisation team in Meymaneh, northern Afghanistan, led by Norway. There were 33 Norwegian soldiers in the camp. In addition, twenty military personnel from other countries, including some from Latvia and Finland, also participate. There are six Norwegian soldiers who are injured. None of them are critically damaged. Two have been sent out of the treatment area. The others are taken care of on the spot. Strengths and flight support were needed, including: from Dutch F-16 aeroplanes and US ground supporting aeroplanes. British forces were flown in with German helicopters. Together with local Afghan forces, this helped to bring the situation under control. Our soldiers deserve honor. The Norwegian soldiers have defended themselves in a certain and wise way. And they confirm the impression I got from them when I visited Afghanistan in December, that these are some of the most educated and best soldiers in the world. They have been through training and have a device that enables them to carry out demanding and risky tasks. It is important for me to assure all those who know and love Afghanistan and other foreign services that they carry out important tasks for Norway and for the world community. We're going to do what we can to give them the support they need and return safely after finishing the service. It has been announced that Afghan security forces are shooting at the attackers and that some of the attackers must have been killed. It is always deeply regrettable when human life is lost. The situation in Afghanistan is now calmer. But it's very serious what's happened. And we're prepared for new spiked situations. I've been talking to President Karzai of Afghanistan about the incident. Karzai praised the efforts of the Norwegian forces for peace and security in Afghanistan, and he underlined that Afghanistan is a country that has been under war, civil war, violence and oppression for decades, and that the Norwegian forces are involved in combating precisely that. The NATO Secretary-General has assured that the NATO command will support the Norwegian forces. He had the greatest respect for quality and for what the Norwegian forces do in Afghanistan. Norway has a long-term perspective on international assistance to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan. It's precisely when difficult situations arise, that it's important that we stick to the tasks we've undertaken. We don't want to bend for pressure. Violence and threats shall not occur. The Norwegian forces will remain in Afghanistan. This morning our ambassador in Damascus handed over a strong protest note to the Syrian government. There is a situation without parallel that a Norwegian embassy is being attacked and burned down. It was Syria's responsibility to prevent it. That responsibility failed Syria. They're still responsible for protecting our people there. And we'll keep them responsible for the financial damage by demanding compensation from Syrian authorities. I have discussed this matter with UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who shares our basic attitudes to the totally unacceptable events we saw in Damascus. It's about respect for international law and law. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and a prerequisite for a democratic society. Freedom of expression is an important condition for freedom of religion and a prerequisite for the worship of different religions. Freedom of religion is an important protection of minorities and part of the human rights protected by international law. Freedom of expression is fundamental to Norway. I agree with those who say that freedom of expression is a right, but not a duty. We all have a responsibility to take account of others when we express ourselves. Not least, we have a responsibility to take into account the faith of other people and the religion of other people. The cartoons of Muhammad have wounded many Muslims. In our democracies, you have the right to publish such drawings, as you have the right to make other controversial, provocative statements. Every day, Norwegian media leave it to print statements, texts, images and drawings. Within the framework of freedom of expression, this could well be published, but the media chooses not to publish – based on their own discretion and their own criteria. The central thing here is that it's the medium itself that makes the decision, not the authorities. However, any free expression must also be able to be evaluated, debated and criticised on the basis of its content and the context in which it is produced. It is also part of freedom of expression. To think that, on the basis of a number of criteria, it was unwise to print these drawings is not to restrict freedom of expression. It is to participate in the debate for which the free movement of words and freedom of expression exist. It's an important part of everyone's growth and social training that we learn to use wisdom when talking about others. At the same time, the very right to free speech is a central part of the critical attitudes and questions of old truths that bring mankind forward. No matter what you might think of the drawings, they give no right to use violence or to threaten the freedom of expression. The great French philosopher Voltaire has said it this way: I disagree with what you say, but will fight to death for your right to say it. The government must be clear and clear in its condemnation of violence and not give in to terror. Only then will we have the basis we need when we underline the need for and our strong desire for dialogue – dialogue between cultures and countries and dialogue between religions. I believe that the tone-provoking Muslim environments in Norway have managed the situation that has arisen after the cartoons were printed, in a good way. We have heard that central leaders have been uncompromising in their rejection of violence and harassment. We must not let the outcasts rule the agenda and dominate the arena. During the last week, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the handling of the international situation, has been in close contact with, inter alia: Islamic Council and other prominent Muslims. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who has a special responsibility for integrating and including the immigrant population, will today meet with Muslim youth to listen to how they experience the situation and how we can build bridges together. We want contact with religious leaders in Norway and in other countries. We want to reap their experiences and receive their advice. We want to prevent conflicts, not to create them. We will follow up the established dialogue between the authorities and representatives of different religious communities. This dialogue is necessary in order to ensure a sound response to the challenges that may arise in the meeting between the big society and the various religious minorities. Our vision is to create one of the most successful inclusive community the world has seen. It requires that we build mutual understanding, and that we avoid developing a classed society based on ethnic origin. The government has now started work on an action plan for the integration and inclusion of the immigrant population. In that process, we will also have dialogue with the immigrant communities. We must work nationally and globally for integration and dialogue. The UN is an important venue for promoting dialogue and promoting peace and reconciliation. There won't be any easy way, but there's no alternative. As surely as we will experience setbacks, we'll be as sure as possible towards the goal of an inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e159	The President will propose to open a post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and with any final post from the Prime Minister – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e162	Recent events in a number of Muslim countries are very serious. Seeing furious people demonstrating against Norway and burning our flag is frightening and serious. It is difficult for many of us to understand that Norway working for peace and reconciliation is subjected to such attacks. The attacks at our embassy in Damascus on Saturday and at the Tehran embassy yesterday, and at the embassies of other countries, are totally unacceptable, and they must be condemned. Ambassadors and diplomats shall, in accordance with international conventions, be under the protection of the host country, everywhere and at all times. We therefore hold the Syrian authorities responsible for the destruction that has taken place in Damascus. It is therefore right that Norway has sent a very strong protest to the Syrian authorities. It is also appropriate to claim the material damages replaced by Syrian authorities. The Prime Minister has addressed the UN Secretary-General in Damascus, as we have recently heard in the presentation, and further follow-up in the UN is also assessed. It is also absolutely necessary, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does, to ensure that the authorities of other countries take their responsibility for the protection of embassies in the utmost seriousness. I am sure the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will handle this professionally. The attack on the Norwegian-led base in northern Afghanistan is very serious. Who attacked, and why they attacked, is still somewhat unclear, but it's not unlikely that it had to do with the turmoil that we've seen elsewhere in the region lately. Norwegian men and women in uniform abroad do a service for NATO and for the United Nations for the purpose of peace. They are making an effort for other countries to achieve peace, for people in countries where there is no stability to have a hope and to see a chance of positive development. They serve abroad because Norwegian political authorities have asked them to do so, and their security is therefore our responsibility. Norway’s mission in Afghanistan is requested by the authorities of the country. The Norwegian military is there to help stabilise the situation in the country, and that is why it is an important task for the Afghan people. Parliamentary elections on 18 September last year represent an important step in the positive direction, but Afghan society still has significant challenges. For example, the central government of Kabul is being countered by local warlords. And it could be, as some people said yesterday, that this rivalry contributed to the unrest we saw. In any case, the uneasiness confirms how unstable this society is, and therefore it is also important and right that we stand by our commitments in Afghanistan. It is important to stress that freedom of expression is a fundamental condition of a democratic society, but with all other freedoms it is also a responsibility. Freedom of expression must also be exercised wisely. Although it is obvious that many Muslims have felt violated by the cartoons that have been printed, it can never defend the use of violence and threats. That is why the Norwegian authorities are also crystal clear in condemning the violent acts we have seen recently against our embassies and also against our soldiers in Afghanistan. Now all actors must contribute to the creation of dialogue. It's just through dialogue that we can solve the underlying conflicts. Dialogue is also the line of the Norwegian Government. In the end, I would like to express strong support for the way our Government has dealt with this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e181	Of course, what we have witnessed in the last few days is perceived as very serious and frightening to many of us. It is good that the Government so clearly expresses firmness, clarity and rigour in defending completely fundamental values with which we cannot go on chords, especially when we are exposed to threats and pressures in the form of violence-related acts. I want first to commend the Government for the dialogue it has had with not least the opposition through this period. It is important that we have all been well informed about the development and the situation, and I think the government in this matter has done so in an excellent way. It has also been important for the Progress Party to give the Government work to deal with this very serious situation in order to safeguard the interests of Norwegian citizens abroad, in order to ensure our diplomacy, our military personnel, and in every way to prevent conflicts from escalating more than necessary. But at the same time as we want to give the government that peace of mind, the Progress Party obviously expects the government to be as rigorous as the Prime Minister has just said, in defending entirely fundamental Western values. These are values that we in our part of the world see as completely self-evident, with which we have grown up, that surround us in almost everything we do, but at the same time there are values that are unknown to very many people around the world. Freedom of expression is such a value, a value that opens up for debate, for discussion, and which also in our part of the world is perceived as so inviolable that even those of us who experience being hurt and injured by freedom of expression, in fact will never fail to defend its importance, in any case, because debate creates progress. We are also pleased that the Government is very clear on the continued presence in Afghanistan. Threats shall not occur. It should not be that we withdraw our forces when we are threatened by violence or other types of threats. But when this situation calms down, it will leave off many questions, many questions that many of its citizens expect answers to and expect debate on. It is precisely in such a situation, at a later stage, that we are going to show the value of freedom of expression by taking the debates that will follow in the wake of this. There are debates about completely fundamental values in our part of the world. There are debates that are going to go a long way into Norwegian integration policy, which are going to go a long way into what kind of society we want Norway to be, and what kind of society we want Norway to develop into. I noticed that the Prime Minister said that through our conduct we should prevent conflicts and not create them. Well, that's easy to agree with. But it must never be that, in our eagerness to prevent conflicts, we avoid being clear on what kind of values we want our society to be built on. We should never go on chords with the basic values of Norwegian society, from which Norwegian society has grown, and from which the vast majority of us want to remain fundamental values in Norwegian society. If we are able to hold on to it and make demands and prerequisites for successful integration in Norway that others must adapt to our basic values, yes, then we have a good starting point for an important debate that will have to come. These are debates that the Progress Party more than wants to take part in, and that we will be more than happy to attend, but not now. Now we are in a situation that requires us to gather around the government's work to secure our interests out. But we have to take seriously what's happening now, because it's not good to know if this is just the beginning of a development that's going to create major problems for our part of the world for decades to come. And in particular, it's important that we get up and never abandon the very basic principles and values that our society and our part of the world are based on, that we don't go on chords when we are subjected to pressure and threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e192	Let me also express Your support for the work done by the Government in the situation that has arisen. I think it is important that Norway continues to act calmly and collectively and encourages dialogue and protection of freedom of expression even when it is put under pressure. I also want to give honor to others. I see that the dialogue with Muslim communities in Norway is particularly important. I want to give tribute just to the behaviour of the majority of, and almost all, Norwegian Muslims in relation to the discussion and debate that has taken place in Norway. They have stood out as defenders of freedom of expression, whether or not they all express that they feel strongly violated by the caricatures that have been published. I also record that many of our Muslim brothers and sisters are using the same freedom of expression and are actively participating in the social debate on issues that affect them, and I think that is also a positive part of the development we see in our society. I also think that there is reason to think about and thank those who are in the first line today – simply – in the crisis that has arisen outside, both embassy personnel, soldiers, police observers and relief workers both in Syria, Lebanon, Iran, the West Bank and Afghanistan. It's tough for them to experience this, and I think it's important that we also show our clear support for the work they do every day. What we're experiencing now is an extreme form of tabloidization in a globalized world. Rumors have arisen and stories of what has actually happened — both in Norway and in Denmark — are the basis for the movement that in some countries may have partial official support, but which in other countries obviously exist in a lack of control. It is important to us that we, as countries, stand together on the basic values we have, as respect and freedom of expression, but that we may also use this opportunity to think a little bit new. Just how Norwegian Muslims have reacted, I think that both the integration and the identification work in our society may have gone better than it has sometimes been. It is extremely important for us now not to whip up any moods against Islam or against Muslims in our society. I am glad that the Government is continuing the dialogue we started in the last period, both with all minority religions and with the youth communities, because it is not least important to ensure good integration and identification with the Norwegian society for the young people who are going to live and grow on in our society. Then it is important that we also ensure that our political issues and debates are relevant in view of the problems of immigrants, it is important that we respect their challenges, while not compromising in our key areas. It is also important to think through how we can spread more knowledge about our society and about other societies – in our society. In Norway, the Church and its role in politics and social life have been steadily weakened for hundreds of years. In many Muslim countries, developments have been different, especially since 1970. The role of religion has become more important. Actually, our societies have gone through the opposite processes. What's natural for us seems threatening to others. And if we're going to be honest, the second one, that's the other one, seems threatening to us. That's why we have some challenges in spreading knowledge, both in our society and from our society to other societies. That is why I think there is reason to challenge editors and mass media owners both in the West and in the Middle East in several areas: they have to be better off explaining the difference between the few extremists and the moderate majority – for the large, moderate majority do not take part in riots or burn Norwegian embassies. We challenge editors and politicians in the West to communicate the content of the Muslim faith and why some of these questions mean so much to the population. And we challenge editors and politicians in the Middle East to explain why we put so much emphasis on freedom of expression and democracy. But there is also a need for some innovation in foreign policy. We have to do something other than just talk to diplomats. We have to work through the media in new ways, with new tools. We need to meet new people and use our minority population as bridge builders to inform our society. And we have to reject any attempt to say that this is just a consequence of the Middle East conflict. This is a consequence that the world has too little human rights and too much dictatorship, perhaps especially in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e213	Many of us have experienced the safe feeling it is to be a Northman abroad. We are used to being honoured for Norwegian development policy and for our efforts for peace. It may therefore be extra outrageous to witness the dramatic events of the last few days: demonstrations against Norway, flag burning, attack against a Norwegian embassy and against a Norwegian military base. I think a lot more than I think this is unreal. On the SV side, we are committed to getting out of the situation we've come into. SV will continue to work for mutual respect between people with different beliefs and different views of life. Mutual respect means that we try to avoid an act that others feel is offensive. This applies both in relation to faith and to fundamental human rights. I want to commend the Prime Minister. He makes it clear that freedom of expression is a human right that we all enjoy. At the same time, it must be understood that some statements may be offensive to others. But we must not restrict freedom of expression – sail if we show greater caution. There is respect for the way Norwegian Muslims have handled the events. They have clearly shown how unacceptable reactions have been in many places, and have underlined that dialogue is the solution. It is only through dialogue – only that – we can put what has happened behind us and work together for increased understanding and mutual respect. We must now work to strengthen links between people in Norway with different backgrounds and religions, not least among young people. We will therefore support this side of further work, and ask the Government to give priority to participation and dialogue in a common arena. I want to commend the Government for their resolute and determined way of dealing with what has happened. We in SV have full confidence that it will continue. What has now happened must not have any impact on our contribution to preventing, dampening and resolving conflicts. What has happened still requires Norwegian dialogue, including: in the Middle East. SV will stress the importance of Norway remaining a clear and good nation of peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e226	The Christian People's Party believes that the aggression against Norway and the Nordics in a number of Muslim countries creates a very serious situation. We give full support to continue working along the lines drawn by the Prime Minister. The following three basic attitudes are important in the future: Firstly, the defence of our democratic principles. We must defend democracy, freedom of expression and international law strongly and in principle. Extremist extremism shall not be used. The responsibility for the delinquency must be clearly placed where it belongs: with the perpetrators themselves. Secondly, cohesion. We're going to show will for cohesion in Norway in the face of threats from abroad. The situation requires political cohesion, accountability and interaction here in the Stortinget. There's no time for solo games or to fish in touch with water. The situation also requires human cohesion in our country and in our local communities. We must not let extremists succeed in setting up groups against each other. We must not allow the creation of divisions, unrest and fear between Northmen of different ethnic origins, different cultural backgrounds or different beliefs. Thirdly, we want dialogue and conflict resolution. We must continue with determination the Norwegian work for peace and reconciliation and inter-religious dialogue. We must strengthen the dialogue between the West and the East in the new sense of order, that is, between the Western cultural circle and the Muslim world. We must not let extremists and violent people stop Norway's bridge builder role and peace-building efforts. International unrest also reflects local conflicts and power games. That newspapers in Norway print drawings of Muhammad can be seen as a violation of the Muslim prophet. In my opinion, it was unwise and inconvenient. Freedom of expression means freedom of expression, not exemption from the use of reason. Needs respect for one's own faith, owes one to respect others'. There's one thing I want to pay particular attention to and warn against in such an acute situation, and that's the tendency to cut everyone over one comb. History is full of examples of war, oppression and discrimination resulting from the pursuit of scapegoats. Others' mistakes have not been made in order for us to repeat them. Making a people collectively responsible for individual pisodres is reprehensible. We react strongly when the Norwegians are killed, when it is encouraged to boycott all Norwegian goods and businesses, but it is equally unfair when a taxi driver in Stavanger experiences that people now refuse to let him transport them because he is a Muslim. We need to vaccinate against the infection of hate and the fear that has infected population groups in conflict areas in other parts of the world. We must not allow this situation to put back years of integration work in Norway. On the contrary, it is our challenge to try to create something good out of what is now difficult and demanding. The Islamic Council of Norway deserves tribute for its clear condemnation of the acts of violence and for its contribution to the prevention of unrest in Norway. Perhaps the situation can also help to create a greater understanding that all believers from time to time feel that what they hold sacred is being violated, and that it is a serious matter. The threats, the pressure and the violence that we have seen against the Nordics in some countries in the last few days are upsetting us. At the same time, this is a reminder that this is the daily routine of many minorities who live permanently in a country without freedom of speech and religious freedom. Christian minorities have found this in many places, including the Middle East. Norway must continue the fight for democracy and human rights and a inter-ethnic relationship based on international law. We must show solidarity, we must strengthen integration and fight prejudice and discrimination, and we must continue Norway's efforts for peace, conflict resolution and reconciliation. I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been outstanding in these values in the public debate, under strong pressure and in a very demanding situation for the country. We're with you!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e249	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough briefing on the serious situation that has arisen internationally over the last few weeks. It is good to see that the Government has handled this demanding time in such an active and wise way. The situation is serious. It is unreal to see Norwegian ambassadors and Norwegian flags burned and through the media testify that Norwegian soldiers in the ISAF service in Afghanistan are being attacked. The use of force we have seen is totally unacceptable. It is important and necessary that the Government has both ours and is crystal clear when this is the case. It is also important that soldiers and relatives receive our attention and follow-up. It is clear that the Government has done and done everything in its power to ensure the safety of the Nordics in international services in the best possible way, and that there is close contact with the countries involved and with international organisations. We in the Central Party are also pleased that the Government has secured the national preparedness, and that he is adapting the situation we are up against. Many – from ambassadors and relief workers to the Muslim community in Norway – are now making a great effort to prevent the wave of moods that have arisen in many countries. It is good that the Government also strengthens our own work for inclusion. It began with a matter of freedom of speech. The right to speak has to be established. It is a principle that has of course been in Norway since 1814, and which has been further developed for almost 200 years, most recently in the Stortinget now in winter. Freedom of expression is a principle that has ours and must be an important commitment to our democracy. Open debate and dialogue are decisive for social development, for progress, for development and for reforms. However, time now requires a different focus than limit detection or tilling. It's time for dialogue. The Nordics in the International Peace Service are the frames. Our ambassadors, who are the most important listening posts out there, and who are in a special position when it comes to promoting cultural understanding and dialogue, are in danger. When attacked by Norwegian ambassadors, it hits so much, and it also hits Norwegian Muslims. Anxiety also spreads in our safest and inclusive local environment. The risk of a setback in an already completed integration and inclusion work is imminent. Prejudice, which many people are committed to removing, is being reinforced in these days. Now it's time to strengthen what's called dialogue. It is necessary to develop more intercultural knowledge and competences. We have to learn to take inwards the power that can be in symbol. The Government and the Storting have their important part of the task. We must not fail. It is our common responsibility not just to use big words today, but to follow up in practice and help to tear down walls and not to build new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e266	The left is behind the prime minister and the government's handling of this situation. And since I represent the last party group in this debate, we can state that with this article, there is a total mass behind the government's management. It is also a time for political cohesion. It's a dramatic situation with unacceptable methods we've been witnessing. The situation is exploited by secondary groups. The reactions are not representative of the vast majority of Muslims. On the contrary, we see more and more Muslims clearly showing that this takes them very far away from it. I join in the praise of Norwegian Muslim leaders, who have shown calmness, prudence and respect for dialogue and fundamental democratic values. It is absolutely vital that everyone sees the clear boundary between expressing dissatisfaction with an opinion and threatening violent representations against those who have expressed themselves. It is not acceptable when someone, including in Norway, gives public expression of understanding and even acceptance for life threatening editors and others. I share the opinion that the current drawings are a spark that has ignited a powder barrel that was all there. Others have used the image of the drop that was asked to flow over. Some extreme Islamists have been interested in pouring this drop or igniting this spark. Some have actively contributed to spreading misunderstandings and false claims, thus exploiting the underlying conflicts established over many years. It's a heavy responsibility also for the West, which has helped to create some of these powder barrels. It is about injustice, social distress, lack of freedom and democracy, lack of minimum material standards and lack of hope for the future. Norway and the international community need to intensify their work at all levels in order to eliminate these social and political powder barrels. It's a fact that there's insufficient contact at the people's level between Western societies and the Arab world. There is a good part of the country for state projects, but little contact between public organisations. There are probably more parties than the Left who miss Arab sister parties in their international work. The government of the Left took up these challenges a year and a half ago in an opinion entitled ‘Trust must be built between the West and the Arab world’. We included a proposal for new projects for increased inter-people relations through support to non-governmental organisations. We will follow up on this later with proposals in this Chamber. Peace is based on trust and respect and must be built primarily through interpersonal interaction and understanding. It is a problem that such interrelationship is far too small between the Western countries and the Arab world. In an atmosphere of distrust and anger, additional forces — including terrorists — will be increased. The fight against fundamentalism and terrorism must be waged with action and strength, but also with a clear anchor in democratic and human rights values. With Norwegian editors who live in fear of the consequences of statements in their newspaper, democracy is weakened. In this regard, we have had a debate on freedom of expression as a value, its limitations and the way in which it should be managed. It is not all that can be said that should be said at all times. But it is also that freedom of expression is a fundamental principle value that should not be relativised, even in such a situation as we have now seen. The left is stuck on freedom of expression, and of course it must also apply to statements that, for some, are unpleasant, even offensive. Nor can criticism of religion or religious symbols be exonerated from the right to statements. It is the religious who must learn to live with this in liberal democracies. The left considers that the Blasphemi paragraph should be deleted, not given new meaning in Norway. Tolerance for critical opinions should be learned by all those who want to live in Norway. With increased knowledge, communication and dialogue, it is hoped that this can also be better understood by those who are now responding with such violence. We have recently visited a Dutch Member of Parliament from Somalia, Ayaan Hirshi Ali. She must suffer for her freedom by being protected 24 hours a day because extreme Muslims threaten her life. Just as we deal with and combat extreme violent forces of heroic origin, so we and our Muslim countrymen must settle with those who, in the name of Islam, use threats and violence against people who do not share their own views. This is also an important part of building trust and mutual respect and building up conflicts instead of stepping them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e290	There is little to add from me after listening to these speeches by the parliamentary leaders. That's why I'm going to focus on a few brief considerations. One is that, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank for the support of a total increase. It gives strength to our work in dealing with the situation we are now facing. I feel that there is also a clear support for the combination of showing firmness and determination in the rejection of violence, threats of violence, and at the same time a desire for dialogue, reconciliation and relieving the mind. It's a strength by Norway that we show the ability to gather, to agree, once we've been tested internationally as we are now. The second point I have is that I would like to stress what several speakers have been doing in different ways, namely that this is not a conflict between religions, but a conflict between totalitarian forces and democratic forces. This conflict is not least going on within many Muslim countries where there are totalitarian forces and where there are democratic forces fighting for the values we also believe in. It gives me the opportunity to stress that some of those who may have the most demanding tasks in the fight for democracy and freedom of expression are just people in Muslim countries. They are the most threatened, and they are also the ones at the front of the front line just for the values we believe in – such as freedom of speech and democracy. It also gives me reason to stress that freedom of expression is something more than a Western value. It is a human right that embraces all human beings throughout the earth. That's why we have to be concerned about stressing that it's not just about us, but it's about everyone, of course also Muslims. This fights Muslims for the world. I have met them in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Indonesia and other countries with a large Muslim population. Freedom of expression stands very solid with us. What we see is that we have huge unsolved tasks, not least in developing the inclusive community – learning to live with inequalities, respecting different religions in a more multicultural society. Then it's also good to know that there's a broad agreement that we're going to go further and work to do something to create the inclusive community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e306	The comment round on the presentation has now ended. The President will propose that the statement be annexed to the minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e322	I will initially give an assessment of the events of the last week related to attacks on Norwegian embassies and Norwegian personnel in international operations. The situation that arose in Afghanistan yesterday was very serious. There was a critical situation in which demonstrators attacked the military camp related to the regional stabilisation team in Meymaneh, northern Afghanistan. As the Prime Minister briefed on, the camp is part of the ISAF forces and is therefore under NATO command. It comprises a total of 54 persons, 33 of whom are Norwegian. When the demonstrators got into the area, six Norwegian soldiers were more easily injured, and two of them were evacuated. In cooperation with NATO, we are doing what we can to ensure the safety of our personnel. The NATO Council discussed the situation yesterday and will meet again in the morning hours today. Secretary-General Scheffer commended the Norwegian soldiers for their handling of the difficult situation that had helped to calm the muddlers. The Secretary-General had new conversations with President Karzai in the follow-up to the conversation that the Prime Minister had with him yesterday. An important contribution to gaining control of the situation and keeping the demonstrators under control was, in addition to the team's own wise response, the support it was possible to call upon from other forces in the region. This was the case with other ISAF forces and support from Dutch F-16 aircraft included in the international stabilisation force. The attack shows that our forces operate under demanding conditions. At the same time, the military set up had the capacity to respond to the situation in a specific and responsible manner. The ISAF forces play an important role in stabilising the situation in Afghanistan. They support the country's elected president and the country's elected national assembly. Political support for Afghanistan’s development was clearly expressed at the conference in London last week as a group of participants from around 60 countries. In addition to our military contribution to ISAF, Norway here gave a signal to extend our financial support to Afghanistan by 200 million. kr annually, up to and including 2010. We will also provide substantial support for humanitarian action. The message is this: Norway is committed to its long-term commitments in Afghanistan, as part of NATO’s efforts, bilaterally and through various UN channels. The government is taking a sharp distance from the attack on the Norwegian Embassy in Damascus last Saturday. We have made it clear to the Syrian authorities that we hold them responsible for the security of the embassy and its personnel. I presented this protest to my Syrian colleague on Saturday afternoon. The Norwegian reaction was handed over in the form of a formal note to the Syrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs today. We've reduced our crew at the embassy. We have advised that the North should leave Syria, and those who want it have received assistance. We now expect an explanation from the Syrian authorities. We will demand compensation for the damage caused to the values of the embassy. We will bring the infringement to the attention of relevant UN bodies, and we will stress that this is a clear violation of the Vienna Convention's provisions on the host country's responsibility for providing protection to the embassy and diplomatic staff. We will soon assess the working conditions for our continued diplomatic presence in Damascus. As you know, this embassy is responsible for following up our diplomatic relations with Lebanon. We will continue our ongoing contact with the governments of the region to ensure that they take their host country responsibility seriously, and we will maintain close contact with our Nordic neighbours and the EU in particular. In the light of the demonstrations against the Danish Embassy in Iran earlier this week, I had a longer conversation yesterday with Iran's Minister for Foreign Affairs. I made it clear that we held the Iranian authorities responsible for the security of the Norwegian Embassy and Norwegian personnel. My Iranian colleague assured me that Iran took this responsibility seriously. Today, in the light of yesterday's demonstrations, we have repeated our clear message to the Iranian Embassy in Oslo. So yesterday there was a demonstration outside Norway's embassy in Tehran. Windows were broken, but the police got control. Our personnel are safe. We follow the situation closely and repeat their responsibilities to the Iranian authorities. This is where I stand today, not indications of concrete threats to Norwegian citizens or Norwegian foreign stations. The situation is reported to have calmed down in most places. But we're following the situation continuously. The impression is that reactions are directed towards national symbols, not individuals. We have raised the safety of stations in a wide range of countries. The security of the embassy staff is of the highest priority, and our travel councils are updated as necessary. What happened in Damascus and Beirut last weekend, in Afghanistan yesterday and a number of other isolated places, is itself very serious episodes. They are also an expression of important characteristics of the current international situation. Opinions in one part of the world spread through the Internet in seconds to all corners of the world. Opinions that do not raise awareness in a country can be perceived as deeply offensive by millions of people in another country. Reactions to such opinions are mixed with and reinforced by other conflict patterns, the frustrations of large populations and internal conflicts in several countries. The result of such developments is increased confrontation and imminent risk of escalation and use of violence. In such circumstances, the agenda is set out in the extremities. Extreme expressions trigger extreme counter-reactions. The situation is exploited by groups and regimes that want to use this type of reaction for their own purposes. Development can have a self-enhancing effect. The current situation underlines the importance of taking a clear distance from the use of violence. The situation further calls for moderation and will, ability and courage for dialogue. For this reason, our intention is to carry out a planned visit by Secretary of State Johansen to Iran next week. However, we will assess this in the light of developments in Tehran. The vast majority, as several of the speakers in this Chamber today have underlined, do not want violence and confrontation. The situation in the Middle East, and not least the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, challenges us to show political wisdom, willingness to negotiate and joint responsibility. I note all the statements that now come from political and religious leaders who distance themselves from the use of violence and at the same time underline the importance of showing respect for religious faith. This case also has its clear roots in our home situation. It illustrates the closeness of foreign and domestic policies. The main picture here at home has been that dialogue and communication have won over confrontation. Dialogue cannot resolve any contradictions of interest. But dialogue can better enable us to understand them, live with them and master them. Perhaps this is the most important challenge facing us in Norway today. Dialogue requires freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is a fundamental principle of our society and an inalienable good in our culture, a right we call about. The ability for dialogue and respect for the faith, orientation and attitudes of others is another core value in our culture. We must now make full use of this ability. I also want to commend religious leaders in many camps who early put emphasis on the very importance of dialogue and mutual respect. The head of the Islamic Council said well when he stressed that the Norwegian Embassy was also his embassy, and that the Norwegian flag was also his flag. I will later come back to the situation in the Middle East. The events in the last few days could lead us to leave other foreign policy issues aside in this annual foreign policy statement, and I must admit that I have assessed it. But I think that would be wrong. We need to show the ability to deal with a critical situation, while keeping focus on a comprehensive foreign policy image that requires our attention. Therefore, I am asking for an understanding that I will use the time it requires, to keep this statement today. Since it is the Government's first foreign policy statement, I want to go through our broader approach to our foreign policy tasks. I would then like to highlight some areas that should call for particular attention at the beginning of 2006. There will be no catalogue of all current issues, because we have many opportunities for debate on specific issues in this Chamber, but rather a reference to the main principles and areas of action that concern us. The centre of foreign policy, as for all other policies, is man’s worth and well-being. The government's foreign policy is anchored in the value base highlighted in the Soria Moria Declaration: belief in community, justice and distribution. In our world, we cannot draw a sharp distinction between domestic and foreign policy, as the events of the last days so clearly show. The Nordics are engaged in international issues. Many have great knowledge. The government welcomes debate and commitment, for for a long time foreign policy has been a matter of closed spaces. Many of these rooms have to be opened. More people have to let go. More must be heard. In foreign policy, the government places emphasis on arranging its approach along three main lines, and I want to reproduce them here, because they are taking the lead in how we tackle individual matters. The first track is to support the further development of an international legal order, where the use of power is regulated, without the law of the strongest, and where the world's countries and peoples are profiting from finding solutions to today's major issues through international cooperation. Work for human rights, for disarmament, against nuclear proliferation, for better international environmental agreements, for common rules to combat overfishing, for fairer trade, for binding legislation against trafficking in human beings and for abuse of women, for ensuring humane treatment in all situations, for strengthening workers' rights in WTO legislation – all these constitute the pillars of international society. We built our society on the rule of law, on a political system capable of redistribution, which combated poverty by investing in health, education and equal opportunities for all. The government believes that the same vision must underpin the international community. Norway shall be a driver of a more fair and solidarity world. Our main tool is to work for a strengthened UN, a reformed and well-functioning UN, and stronger multilateral institutions. Last year’s UN summit on key issues, peace building, human rights, security and responsibility for protecting vulnerable groups. We're going to lead in the follow-up. We want a United Nations with high credibility on the outside, with the ability to reform and self-criticism within. The second main track is about taking care of and developing the relationship with friends and allies, about being our friends' friends. We have our anchoring in NATO, which is a key element of Norwegian foreign policy, our close ties with Nordic countries and European countries through the EEA Agreement and other arrangements and close friendship and cooperation with the United States. Promoting Norwegian interests requires those who are close to us to listen, understand and support our views. Norway has its own voice, and we want to use it with clarity. However, Norway’s security is still based on our solidarity with an alliance and the strength of transatlantic links. This relation is our task to further develop, among other things. by deepening the relationship with new countries outside our own continent. Foreign policy must focus on nurturing such friendships. Friendship is about knowing. It's about trust, openness, space to disagree and the ability to tell from it. At the same time, Norway is dependent on having friends who stand by their obligations towards Norway, confident that we stand by our obligations against them. In this way, we will take part in the debate on the further development of NATO towards the autumn summit. It is important to anchor the political dialogue in NATO, where, together with European and American allies, we can discuss new security challenges and ensure the solidarity that is absolutely necessary for Norway. The third main feature of our foreign policy is to exploit the opportunities we have to promote peace, reconciliation and development. With our good starting point, we have a historic responsibility to help people living in conflict and distress meet a future in peace and with a view to development. We will work in the long term for a fairer world order that will ensure redistribution, transfer of technology and developing countries' own development opportunities. At the same time, we're going to seize the possibilities where we have a position to make a difference. Let me give you a couple of examples. In the field of development, the Stoltenberg I government took up the dawning initiative to secure vaccines for all the children of the world. Norwegian support became a powerful start to the global alliance because we saw the opportunity, were ready to bet and ready to stand by over time, both under the Bondevik government and, with further escalation, now under the majority government. There is now a vision that we can take the lead in achieving development goals number four: reducing the mortality rate among the world's children under five by two thirds by 2015. In the area of peace and reconciliation — another example — the Nordics with a strategic view of Norway’s ability to play a third-party role between the parties in Sri Lanka. It's given results. We've agreed to continue in that role as long as both parties want our commitment, and as long as we see that we can play a constructive role. The Minister for Development has succeeded in reaching an agreement on new negotiations. Meetings will now take place in Geneva on 22 and 23 February to discuss ways of strengthening the implementation of the ceasefire agreement and thus improving the security situation. It is the first time in three years that the parties meet at such a high level as now. This should be our line: we need to have a strategic look to see the opportunities that open up to contribute to peace, reconciliation and development – not spread too far, but be clear and recognizable when we bet. These three tracks, these three approaches, are closely linked: Norway in a safer world based on law and law, Norway anchored with friends we can trust, and who trust us, Norway pushing for peace, reconciliation and development. Our ability to succeed along one track depends largely on our ability to collide our positions and actions along the other two. This approach will be used to organise our priorities and strategy to take care of Norway's security, Norway's interests and Norway's contribution to a fairer world. I will then mention some key issues on our foreign policy agenda, the main issues of the Government's programme and some issues of particular topicality. First to the north, as the Government has defined as Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. It is about safeguarding Norwegian interests and Norwegian security. It is about value creation, work, living conditions and settlement in the north, about marine resources, about knowledge development and cultural cooperation in an international environment. It's about our relationship with Russia. It's about the environment and climate in vulnerable Arctic areas. It's about the rights of the indigenous peoples. It's about important aspects of our relationship with neighbours and partners. Therefore, Northern Region policy is an important part of Norwegian European and Norwegian security policy. The government's vision is that the Barents Sea will become a cooperation sea, an ambition for cooperation in a common, stable environment, with clear borders, clear legal rules for economic activity, high standards for the environment, where Norway meets neighbours and environments with known qualities as a recognizable, predictable and long-term manager of our responsibilities as a coastal state. The initiative in the north is inspired by the vision behind Barents cooperation from the beginning of the 1990s. The cold war is behind us. We are now continuing to develop cooperation patterns from before 1917. At the same time, we know that stability is based on the fact that we have partners and allies. No one should feel comfortable in these areas. The government is based on Stortinget’s treatment of the previous government’s notification of the northern regions. That was a good message. At the same time, we want to go a few steps further, expand the perspective further, highlight the common responsibility we bear, and spread the course further. If we slide towards the neighbourhoods, we see that it's in the north that most of us are changing. That's where the perspectives change, that's where we and others redefine opinions and interests. The government will meet the challenges of a comprehensive and cross-sectoral policy, with economic opportunities, environmental challenges, administrative responsibilities and administrative obligations seen in the context. Knowledge, presence and activity are key to the North Region's efforts. We should have the ambition to have leading knowledge of all aspects of the challenges and opportunities in the north: fisheries, energy, environment, climate, maritime law, resource management, indigenous rights and cultural cooperation. We're in a good position, but we want to move on. Technology can be a bridge between environmental challenges and economic activity. Through Barents 2020, the Government will stimulate research and development to fill identified gaps in knowledge, in particular in energy and the environment. Then we must have the will and the ability to be present. It is our presence at sea and on land that gives us knowledge, and that enables us to set standards. Now we can expect increased activity from others, not least in the field of energy and transport. Then we must have the capacity to be present to enforce our responsibility as a coastal state. The Coast Guard has been given increased resources. The Orion planes can fly more. The defence shall be clearly present. We need to continuously assess needs and capacity. And then finally, activity builds up under sovereignty, presence and knowledge. We assume our responsibilities as a coastal state by being at the forefront of all the leading resource activities in the region. We're in charge of fishing. We have to be leading in the field of energy, within the strict framework of the environment and security that we determine. We will be the leaders in research and development in polar struts. We want to highlight ourselves in the regional forums in which we participate: the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Arctic Council, the Barents Cooperation, the Baltic Sea Cooperation. And we will work intently to influence the development of the EU's northern dimension, with special opportunities under the Finnish EU Presidency in the second half of 2006. The energy dimension changes the perspective of the north, of us, of our Russian neighbours and of all those concerned with energy production, security of supply and global climate and environmental challenges. The gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine was a reminder of the vulnerability of the European energy supply systems. Americans have also been reminded of the importance of stable resources and alternative suppliers after the fall of hurricanes and reductions in petroleum production. In this perspective, the outside world looks to the north. The Barents Sea can be the most important petroleum region in Europe. We are prepared to meet increased attention from governments and companies. LNG technology enables gas to be transported independently of pipelines. In a year's time, the first LNG ship goes from Snow White to the American East Coast. For the planned Shtokman project on the Russian side, increased demand in the US LNG market is a crucial prerequisite. This also has a European perspective. As gas production declines further south in Norway, available capacity will become available in the pipeline network. It may be extended northwards if the resource base is present. We want dialogue with our European partners on the North. They want dialogue with us because they have obvious interests in the development of the new European energy chapter. Therefore, Northern Region policy is part of the Government’s European policy. We need to be involved in the preparation of the development of petroleum resources. When Snow White is put into production as the first field in the Barents Sea, we are in the forefront. It is equally crucial for Norway to enter into the closeest possible intervention with developments on the Russian side. President Putin has invited Norway to a strategic energy partnership with Russia in the north. We welcome the invitation, and we will meet it with the same openness to the Russians. Norwegian companies should be at the forefront of the development projects on the Russian side, and Russian companies should look forward to a future on the Norwegian side. Cooperation with Norwegian companies gives Russians access to world-leading technology from well-run companies with headquarters in a neighbouring country they know well. Statoil and Hydro are among five companies in the last round before the Russians choose their partners for the development of the Shtokman field. The government supports the candidacy of the companies, and we make this clear in the ongoing contact with the Russian authorities – the oil and energy minister at the end of January, I in Moscow next week and the Prime Minister in his meeting with his Russian colleague in March. The government wants to set the standard for the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea. It does not apply only to the Norwegian part. Our vision must be that environmental and management standards in the oceans of opportunity meet the demands of nature. We have to make sure that the Barents Sea remains one of the world's most untouched natural areas, one of the world's cleanest seas, with some of the world's richest fishing resources. Therefore, the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea must comply with the world’s highest environmental and safety standards. The Norwegian management plan thus becomes a reference document, not least by becoming a cross-sectoral one and drawing up a good framework for activities related to fisheries, energy and transport. This can become an important foreign policy document that can also be relevant in other regions. Our contacts with Russia confirm that together we want broad cooperation to ensure the vulnerable marine environment and valuable fish stocks. Several incidents have shown that environmental crime is a major challenge, both for Norwegian law enforcement and for the bilateral fisheries management cooperation regime. The main task is to strengthen cooperation to combat the widespread unregulated, unreported and illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. Norway and Russia have a common interest in preventing overfishing and thieving. We will cooperate closely with Russia, but also pursue unregistered turnover from illegal fishing in European ports. We also invite dialogue with the European Union on this matter. The EU is not interested in assisting criminals in obtaining a provision for their goods. Norway’s relationship with Russia has evolved and is more extensive than ever. I am pleased with the good political dialogue. The exchange of visits is active in most areas of society. The government is now preparing an action plan for our relationship with Russia, and the aim is to present it under Prime Minister Fradkov's visit to Norway next month. We have a good neighbourly relationship, and we see the fruits of it not least in our northern parts. However, the incidents of the construction of Russian vessels in the Svalbard protection zone and the Russian import ban on salmon and fresh fish from 1 January this year clearly show that there are challenges. We also see challenges in Russia, including: as regards the working conditions of non-governmental organisations and the media — which are important prerequisites for the pluralistic, democratic development of a neighbouring country. Much remains on Russia's path towards a predictable and democratic rule of law. The import ban on fresh fish is a serious estimate of our trade. Demand is high, and the value of total exports of fresh and frozen fish increased to DKK 3.7 billion in 2005. Engaging in the Russian market involves great opportunities and complex problems. Meeting the challenges requires long-term work from both Norwegian business and government. The government is now working along several channels, veterinary and political, to have the import ban lifted. At the same time, we see that several other countries face similar challenges in trade with Russia. A solution will require patience, clear speech, and that we deal neatly with our Russian counterparts. Discussions with Russia on an agreement on the demarcation of continental shelf and 200-mile zones in the Barents Sea have now resumed. A term of office was held in December last year and contacts continue this year. In reality, there has been a pause in discussions since 2003 since we have been waiting for the necessary clarifications on the Russian side. The tone is now constructive. There is valuable work done. I myself have a good and direct dialogue with my Russian colleague on these issues, and during my visit to Moscow next week, we will continue the discussions on both the possibilities and the complex challenges of bilateral relations. Let me finish the review of the northern regions by referring to my introductory remarks on the main tracks of Norwegian foreign policy: In the north, we clearly see the importance of a systematic approach to a order based on recognised rules, the enforcement by the coastal State of its responsibilities and sovereignty, and the willingness and ability to resolve outstanding issues in a tidy way. We are confident of our responsibility as a coastal state. We are firmly anchored in international law for our sovereignty in the Barents Sea and around Svalbard. We are consistently enforcing our administrative responsibilities. We participate in the mapping of the continental shelf's range to the north. At the same time, we see the importance of maintaining close contact with our neighbours, friends and other interested parties. While we experience that more people are looking to the north, we will be in the forefront and conduct north-eastern dialogues with our neighbours and European and American partners. Others are in the thinking phase in their view of the north. Our perspective must be that any thought, any strategy that is not yet planned, provides an opportunity for Norway. We can set the agenda in a way that is to be recognized, as a long-term thinking and responsible coastal state. For the Government’s European policy, this is the ambition: Norway should be an active contributor to creating a fairer, safer and better organised Europe. The government will not seek membership of the EU. We will cooperate with the EU based on our existing EEA Agreement, participation in agencies and supervision, the Schengen Agreement, cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy and in a number of other agreements related inter alia. research and culture. The Government is now reviewing the experience with the EEA Agreement and the functioning of the Schengen Agreement. We will also have an active profile in the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and we will work actively within the framework of the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers, where we have the Presidency this year. We are served by common rules and standards for the European market. We want to call around the agency that ensures a level playing field for Norwegian companies and jobs. The government wants a more active European policy. We need to become more focused on what is important to us, where we can make a difference, where we can promote contributions, take co-responsibility and then work for our national interests and opinions. Many of the challenges facing the EU are also our challenges. During the spring, the government will draw up an action plan for an active, clear and open European policy. There are three main components of this strategy. It shall contain clear and early policy priorities. It's going to help us act concentrated, coordinated and exploit the possibilities of influence we have. It should focus on the constructive management of our obligations. We will strengthen the information work, improve the reporting on European affairs and work for a knowledge gap in the management apparatus on EU/EEA matters. We want to facilitate through dialogue with the Storting that relevant European issues can come to the Storing sooner than before. Through the EEA financial instruments, Norway is now taking joint responsibility for the social and economic development of the Baltic and Central Europe. Over the five-year period 2004-2009, more than DKK 9 billion will be put at the disposal of development projects – mostly for Poland. There is a significant investment that will give new, important dimensions to our cooperation with these countries. We need to know that in our European policies, but also in our bilateral relations. We also see that there are issues on the EU agenda where Norway has specific competences. Energy policy and security of supply are a matter of utmost importance. The EU imports about half its energy. Norway delivered about a quarter of the EU’s natural gas in 2003. EU dependence on imports is intended to increase up to 70 pst. in 2030. We will give priority to further developing the energy policy dialogue with the EU. Among other things, we will maintain close contact with the EU and the Russian G8 Presidency in the run-up to the summer G8 meeting in St. Petersburg. In this perspective, the Northern Region and European policy of the Government are once again closely linked. The EU is Norway's second largest export market for fish, but we have repeatedly found that the framework on which our exports are based is not good enough. For more than 15 years, we have had to live with restrictions or threats of restrictions on our exports of salmon to the EU. A few weeks ago, the EU decided to apply permanent anti-dumping measures against Norwegian salmon. We do not believe that this is the basis of WTO legislation on such measures. We have therefore decided that if necessary we will pursue this matter in the WTO. But first we want to turn all the stones to try to find an acceptable friendly solution. The objective is a long-term, stable framework for the Norwegian farming industry. The salmon case shows that we are vulnerable in today's commercial reality. We have our fight with the European Union. We're locked out of the American market. It shows the importance of succeeding in tightening up the legislation that could prevent the use of ‘simple’ anti-dumping measures. This Norwegian priority is not unexpected in the ongoing WTO negotiations. The WTO Ministerial Meeting in Hong Kong in December showed progress in these negotiations. There were modest progress. But it was equally important that ministers from 149 countries agreed. This means that this multilateral negotiating system is still intact. The alternative to broad agreements negotiated through the WTO is a diversity of bilateral agreements or a lack of agreements. The common feature of such schemes is that the law of the strongest is available, and the developing countries do not have better access to the markets of the rich countries. In Hong Kong, it agreed to wind up all export subsidies before the end of 2013. It was agreed that industrialised countries and those developing countries that are able to do so should grant duty-free and quota-free access to most products from the least developed countries. As is already known, Norway provides such access. Developing countries were also given the opportunity to focus on improving market access for their agricultural and industrial products in the development round, and there must therefore be a link between the level of ambition for agriculture and the ambitions for industrial products, including fish. In addition, promises were made for more trade-related assistance from a number of countries. The Ministerial Conference confirmed the impression that the developing countries, despite their non-uniformity, are able to join forces with common demands through important crossroads. This is a new sign in the international negotiating image. They demand to have their fair share of world trade, especially in the agricultural sector. Developing countries are currently holding the key to consensus in more and more areas. This is a positive and fair development, a development the Government welcomes and wants to contribute to, as we did in Hong Kong. In the fight against poverty, access to trade and access to markets are a major road to development. Access to trade by poor countries is an important contribution to the sharing of the world’s goods in a different way. At the same time, we should be open to challenge us and other rich countries, especially when market access is required in one area where we have traditionally had high tariffs and high levels of internal support, namely agriculture. The situation is as I described it in my statement to the Stortinget on 9 December last year. If agreement is reached in the negotiations, this will be demanding for Norwegian agriculture. There will be a need for significant adjustments. The government is working to secure mechanisms to enable agriculture to be managed throughout the country, as the Soria Moria declaration states. We're not alone, and we want to use all the energy to ensure the best possible result for us. The government's aim is to contribute to the successful completion of the Doha Round. We will also work actively to ensure ambitious results in the negotiations on services and industrial products, including fish, and improve anti-dumping legislation. The timetable for the future is scarce. Important issues in agriculture and industrial products, including fish, shall be resolved by the end of April. The round shall be in target by the end of 2006. We have to do our job, but it is a very demanding task for WTO members now facing it. In recent years, Norway has focused its efforts in Africa through bilateral cooperation with a number of countries. Now it's also time to think new and strategically about the whole continent. Norway needs a renewed African policy that can see development and foreign policy in the context. Despite many positive developments in Africa, this continent faces major challenges that will require significant efforts both on the African side and on the international community. The biggest poverty crisis is in Africa. Africa has major development challenges, but also opportunities. It is Africa's responsibility, but it is also our responsibility. This is a guideline for Norwegian development policy. It should also be done for Norwegian foreign policy. Faced with Africa's challenges and opportunities, even majorities become small. For a long time the former colonial powers dominated, and during the cold war the rivalry between the two major powers moved to Africa. Now new patterns are drawn. Many redefine their policies. China's strong commitment, not least in the field of energy, is a talking example. Efforts to solve Africa’s problems require better organised and more streamlined international cooperation. The G8 countries put Africa at the top of their agenda at the Gleneagles Summit last year. The initiative led, inter alia, to: to a debt cancellation plan for a number of poor countries, which also supported Norway. It is encouraging that African countries through the African Union and NEPAD, The New Partnership for Africa’s Development, have developed their own strategies for resolving the continent’s challenges. These are light points in Africa. The number of armed conflicts has fallen. Several democratic choices are being made, and in several regions economic growth is taking place. Africa is becoming an important supplier of crude oil. It's estimated that 25 pst. US imports will come from West Africa by 2010. China and India are showing increasing interest in this part of the world. It puts Africa and the individual African commodity producing countries in a new security policy situation. The African Union is an example of African nations seeking solutions to their own problems. Although AU still has a long way to go before cooperation has found its form, efforts to strengthen African crisis resolution have proved to be an important measure. In particular, we have seen this in the efforts of the AU in Darfur and through the management of the negotiations for a political solution to this tragic conflict. This will be supported by Norway. Norway has provided assistance to both of these measures and is now considering clarifying a Norwegian capacity for action in an African force for the UN. We will work closely with the countries and institutions concerned to help ensure a peaceful solution in Darfur and to continue work on the Sudan peace agreement. Through joint efforts, organisations such as the UN, NATO, the EU and the AU have found cooperation that will be important to maintain. Norway's Embassy in Addis Ababa has since last summer acted as a contact point between NATO and AU, thus contributing to a smoother cooperation on the situation in Darfur. It is important to continue this cooperation on other issues as well. We must seek foreign policy cooperation with African countries and institutions on both African and other international issues. We meet African countries in new, central roles in international cooperation such as WTO negotiations, as key oil exporters and as contributors to the efforts to resolve serious conflicts. We want close contact with African countries on these and other issues. We will be active towards the UN, the World Bank and other donors in order to ensure overall convergence and coordination so that the international efforts to Africa are exploited as best as possible. We also see the importance of the ‘Oil for Development’ programme, which is in the process of finding its form, where Norwegian oil experts can benefit African and other countries in their efforts to ensure that oil revenues are used to the benefit of society. Our goal is an Africa without conflicts, where people can build their future in peace. In months to come, the government wants to invite Norwegian knowledge environments to an idea debate on Norwegian foreign policy priorities in Africa policy. Otherwise, we need to focus, prioritize and put in the forces where our efforts can add value to the overall international effort. After World War II, large parts of the international system were renewed. The UN Charter, the Declaration of Human Rights and the four Geneva Conventions set universal standards. The establishment of NATO and later the Community was given great leadership in cooperation and security in our continent, as did the KSSE and later the OSCE. We need to look for new ways to organise international cooperation. We need stronger cooperation patterns globally, and regionally, such as. in the larger Middle East region. We need to strengthen the dialogues. We have to deal with individual matters; many of them are often acute and marked by crisis management. We also need to provide room for discussing new cooperation arrangements that can provide countries and regions with a framework for security, trade and exchange. It won't be peace and security in the Middle East if we don't take a broader perspective. Today there is a logic in which one's safety is the source of the other's uncertainty. This logic must be broken, as Europe has the power to break a similar logic in earlier times. We need to be a driver of UN reform. We need to support UN organisations. We're going to work to ensure that these organisations, including all the countries of the world, are at the heart of how we meet the challenges of the world society, whether it's the fight against human trafficking, the spread of nuclear weapons, the work to ensure health and education for all or common readiness to face a global threat such as avian influence. At the same time, we must call around international law and standards that are hard-pressed global common good. Attempts to say that international humanitarian law and the provisions of the United Nations Charter on the use of power do not meet the needs of new security threats – such as the fight against terrorism – are a dangerous path. The UN summit last September was crystal clear here. It was established that ‘the provisions of the Charter are sufficient to address the full range of threats to international peace and security’. The fight against terrorism must be conducted with determination and must be conducted on the basis of the provisions of international law. Those who commit acts of terrorism must be apprehended and held accountable. The authorities concerned in the countries must cooperate closely. Norway participates in this cooperation. The question of aspects of the U.S. Seizure has given cause for concern, and we have addressed this with the US authorities. This is not only true in relation to American practice, but there is cause for concern about the treatment of prisoners in a wide range of contexts. No conflict, national or international, may defend the exclusion of a prisoner from protection and fundamental rights. Anyone held captive shall at least be treated humanely, continuously, regardless of his or her status. Whether or not the status of a prisoner is unclear cannot be used as a reason to deprive him of his fundamental rights for protection. The very idea that fundamental rights can be set aside in the fight against terrorism will, in the longer term, only have the opposite effect, namely that it undermines the very fight it is intended to wage. One of the most dangerous things about terror is that it helps to polarize, create fronts and opposites. Criminal acts must be combated with defence and justice. Extremeist attitudes must be combated in other ways, primarily through economic and social development and through democracy, dialogue and negotiations – as we see it in these days. Norway shall seize the opportunities we have to promote peace and reconciliation. We can't have the ambition to have too many processes, but we're going to be ready to follow up where we get involved. This is what was outlined in the third main track, which I mentioned in the introduction. Norwegian engagement is never a solo game. A strength for Norway is our close ties with the United States, Canada, the EU and other key actors, and our position in the United Nations. Many of the security threats we are facing today – terrorism, cross-border crime, environmental destruction or the spread of diseases – originate in conflict areas far from us. But 'far from us' is a place that is no longer on today's world map of the lines of communication. Fear spreads through videotapes on TV. Suicides take the T-Bahn. Opinions spread all over the world in the same second. Heroin on the street in our cities comes from rural Afghanistan. A targeted, systematic effort by the Norwegian side to help resolve some of these conflicts is therefore a matter of solidarity, human dignity and security. To make such an effort, we need to have the freedom to speak with the parties. It is against this background that the Government decided before the New Year that we will deal with the UN terrorist list and not automatically join the EU list. Our work to strengthen human rights has many forms. We want to see a stronger UN, where the work on human rights is among the core tasks. We work in relation to a number of individual countries on the possibility of dialogue as a starting point and as a starting point. We have human rights dialogues with China, Indonesia and Vietnam, and we want to see a positive look at a similar dialogue with Iran. Experience shows that discrepancy with the authorities of such countries has a limited impact on fundamental issues by discontinuing contact with them. This is the main reason why the Government has chosen to transform policy and engage in dialogue with the authorities in Cuba. For a long time, we have been cut off from dialogue, as the only European country. Now we are in the position to engage in a critical dialogue and to engage in civil society in Cuba. Last day's events are closely woven together with the broader picture of the Middle East conflict. It may therefore be appropriate to close where I started, with the situation in a region where so many of today's conflict patterns are being brought together. The government will be conscious of its responsibility and take advantage of the opportunities we have to contribute to peaceful and non-violent development. That is precisely why it is important to stress that the atmosphere in these days is not going to make us withdraw. The vast majority do not want violence and confrontation; they want a development that can ensure peace, security, justice and development. We have to stand on this side of the majority. The political reality in the Middle East and the framework of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians have been radically changed following Hamas’ victory in the Palestinian elections and in the light of the forthcoming elections in Israel in March. The government respects the outcome of democratic processes. Together with the international community, we were a driving force for a democratic election. We must then respect a democratic result. It is still too early to say what kind of government the Palestinians can expect, and it is still unclear what kind of policy such a government will pursue. Therefore, the world community should not now express itself in such a way as to promote uncompromising attitudes by making detailed and absolute demands. It is natural that you will need time to surround yourself on the Palestinian side. Nevertheless, we repeat what is a Norwegian general view: a solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians must be achieved through negotiations, not through violence. The parties must accept previously concluded agreements and obligations, including UN resolutions and the Roadmap for Peace. The objective must be a two-state solution in which Israel and a Palestinian State can live in security within internationally recognised borders. Our message to both parties must be that democratically elected governments are following this course. Then they can count on our and the support of the world community. In this context, it is essential that the way to the solution is through negotiation and that the parties do not engage in unilateral action. The construction of the separation wall by Israel is such a unilateral measure. From the Norwegian side, we maintain our protest against the construction of this barrier in Palestinian territory, which we believe violates international law. Israel has continued to expand settlements around East Jerusalem and the West Bank, contrary to the principles of the Roadmap for Peace and International Law. There is a picture of Israel systematically attaching the grip on East Jerusalem and breaking up Palestinian territory. This is unacceptable and in practice undermines a two-state solution. At the same time, Israel is entitled to live in security and security. Therefore, Palestinian self-government authorities and Israel’s neighbours have a responsibility to prevent and combat the use of violence and terrorism. Until a new government has been formed, it will remain in office as the Business Ministry under the leadership of President Mahmoud Abbas. This situation may last for several months. At that time, we must maintain support to prevent the collapse of Palestinian institutions. Norway is in close dialogue with the other donor countries to coordinate our donor efforts, precisely to prevent this from happening. My talks with foreign colleagues have shown great agreement that the international community must not fail President Abbas and the Ministry of Business during the transitional period. An important role for us is to be the coordinator of donor countries to the Palestinian authorities. In the future, we will intensify our efforts to strengthen understanding in donor countries of continued coordinated international support for Palestinian national construction. At the same time, it is necessary to put in order the internal Palestinian conditions that have contributed to this poor economic situation. Developments in the Middle East are closely linked to developments in the rest of the region. That is why the Iranian President's play against Israel, and his pronounced support for the Palestinian armed resistance, is serious and contributes to undermining the peace efforts in the region. The Iranian nuclear programme is also a cause for concern. Work on preventing new countries from accessing nuclear weapons is more important than ever. Iran has its full right to develop nuclear power for peaceful purposes. However, the legitimate suspicion that Iran has plans to enrich uranium for a military nuclear programme stirs up unrest in many countries and is in direct conflict with Iran's obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Agreement. This is the background to the increased political pressure against Iran as expressed in the decision of the International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, on 4 February. The requirement of the international community is that Iran stop all activities related to the enrichment of uranium and give the IAEA full access to its facilities. It also applies to research and development. The Government emphasises that there is a broad dissension behind the decision of the IAEA Board to report Iran’s nuclear activities to the UN Security Council. The five permanent members of the Security Council are now united. I would also like to stress that this resolution has just taken a broader perspective as it highlighted the need to combat nuclear weapons across the region, that is beyond Iran's borders. It has been essential for the Government to contribute to strengthening the control tasks of the IAEA in Iran. Without such involvement of the Security Council, this would not be possible. In the decision of the extraordinary Governing Council, there is no evidence that the Security Council is addressing this issue now. The IAEA still has the management of this case. I am pleased that the permanent members of the Security Council also see it this way. It is now important that Iran understands the seriousness of the situation and shuts down the parts of its programme on which doubts have been raised. The next step will be for Director-General ElBaradei to present a reassessment of Iran’s nuclear programme at the IAEA Governing Council on 6 March. We emphasize the importance of dialogue. We have great respect for the Iranian people. We actively want Iran to join the international community. We don't want isolation. The decision opens the negotiating table. We have to work on that. Finally, in meeting a changing world, one can be turned off that so many of the things we spend time on are among the little ones. At the same time, we strive to take concrete action on the greatest, which is about the real challenges of existence of our time. Our greatest challenges are probably about changes in earth's climate, changes that are most likely man-made, and the fight against global poverty. The consequences of climate change will be seen decades for decades in a way that can have a significant impact on living and living conditions in all parts of the world. The most noticeable changes appear to be around the globe's poles, especially the northernmost. But the experience also shows, as before, that the poorest are the poorest in the south. The world is about to reach several of the global development goals of halving the number of people living in poverty by 2015. Nevertheless, hundreds of millions live in deep degradation. More hunger today than ten years ago. Many are denied access to education. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is spreading. And millions live on flight. Against these challenges, the world strives to come up with effective countermeasures. We lack good enough mechanisms and grips to respond to these greatest of all challenges. And not least there is a lack of political will. It is linked to a demanding link between the nature of the challenges and the nature of the solutions. Today's global governance sets lack sufficient capacity to take joint responsibility, to distribute burdens fairly and to ensure that everyone does their job. I mention this in order to underline the overall importance of further developing the global governance set, that we need to work with our own attitudes and engage with others in order to strengthen, target and make effective international cooperation. It must also be part of our foreign policy ambition and our will for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e605	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom — and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e623	My interpellation today about freedom of faith has got a dramatic backbone in the great wave of demonstrations that has been raging over many Muslim countries in the last few days, especially in the Middle East. The reasons for the hierarchies may be complex, but one important factor is that many Muslims know their religious identity trampled on. They react to their chief prophet being caricatured and mocked. The race is therefore partly a reaction to what they know as an audacity, and partly an expression that they live in a society where there is no strong tradition of freedom of trust and freedom of expression. If we are to be able to prevent these kinds of reactions, we must safeguard the freedom of trust that is required by the Declaration of Human Rights. Many of the countries where citizens now react with power have given religion a central place in society, but not freedom of belief. Therefore, we need to increase the protection of the freedom of trust, in order to avoid situations like this in the future. As Jürgen Haberma points out, religion plays an increasingly important role for political purposes all over the world, except in Europe. In a world-historical light, Western rationalism is actually the real exception, he says. Habermas believes that as long as the secular citizens perceive religious traditions and religious communities as an outdated survival from pre-modern societies, they will perceive the freedom of trust as little more than a protection of an extermination threat. In their opinion, religion itself no longer has a right to existence. It is not necessary for those who are concerned with freedom of trust to produce the secular that the optimal and only rarely find the means to point a violation of the right to believe. In the Western world today, we're very busy with secular things, and it's often highlighted as an ideal. Then one doesn't see the role of religion and faith playing in human life in everyday life. Maybe it's just because we're so busy with the secular, that we forget to pay attention to the religious? We can't rank human rights. Everyone's equally important, and everybody's going to increase focus. There are today serious violations of social, economic, civil, cultural and political rights in many countries. I will nevertheless point out one human right in this interpellation, namely the right to liberty of trust. Why is it so important to focus on religious persecution and freedom of faith? Because suffering or death on such a basis is worse than anything else? No, absolutely not. The reason we need to pay attention to freedom of faith is that the theme has been neglected, more than many other human rights. There are today gross violations of the freedom of trust, without this getting any special attention. Therefore, the matter needs greater political attention. Human rights organisations have also not had the freedom of trust high on the agenda. One of the reasons why freedom of faith and religious persecution have been neglected is that belief has not been viewed as an important part of human life. The essential point here is not whether one is personally threatening or disliking religion, but whether one realizes that religion is a key element in political and human rights. Freedom of the faith and persecution for its guilt are not about human rights violations against all religious human beings. Most people in the world have a religious connection. What I'm busy with is the persecution of a human being where the very cause of the persecution is the religious affiliation. For example, most people in Rwanda had a religious belief, but the genocide was ethnically based. Humans were killed because they were tussias, independent of their religion. Then we shall recognize at the same time that there are only a few conflicts where religion is the only cause; it is usually associated with ethnic, political, religious, and economic reasons. On February 1, 1972, an interpellation was raised here in the Great Britain about what Norway could do to end the persecution of Christians behind the Iron Curtain, in the Soviet Union. Representatives from all the parties then represented at Stortinget participated in the debate. It was the first parliament in the world that raised the persecution in the Soviet Union for debate, and the interpellation with Bergfrid Fjose highlighted great political significance. Things got wide coverage in the press. The English version of the report from the debate was sent to most of the world’s ruling powers and to leaders of major international humanitarian, ecclesiastical and political organizations. Bergfrid Fjose got a thank-you letter from a menace in the Soviet Union. The most important thing was that things were seen on the political agenda. This has had great consequences for many people. I don't have any less ambitions with this interpellation, rather greater. In a commentary on the 1972 debate, it was said that the interpellant did not get a clear and unambiguous answer to his question, and that it was probably not expected either. I have expectations of the foreign minister and of what we can actually achieve by raising a debate on the issue of freedom of trust. So I'll come up with concrete suggestions on what Norway can do to increase the awareness of the freedom of trust. Article 18 of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights states that everyone has the right to exercise his or her religion, privately and publicly with others. Most countries in the world have signed this convention, but we know that many governments break these rights every day. In Belarus, developments are heading in the wrong direction. In Pakistan, India and Egypt, Convertites risk their lives. In Egypt it is still difficult for young Copts to get education. In Turkmenistan and Iraq, there is an increasing religious intolerance. Just before Christmas, we had a debate in Stortinget about the situation in Iran. There is no doubt that the Iranian regime is violating human rights. Access to higher education is denied to Bahai students. Iranian regimes have made it clear that they would have access if they declared themselves to be threatening Muslims. The President of Iran is also involved in spreading religious intolerance with his statements about Jews. He means the Holocaust is a myth, and he wants to remove Israel from the map. Many asylum seekers come to Norway from Iran, precisely because of religious persecution. Norway must take this seriously. I'm worried when I read from UNE that as long as Iranian converts keep believing for themselves, they won't risk anything by just converting. It is stated in the Foreign Affairs Department’s note of practice from 27 May 2005. In the same note, they point out that Islamic law permits the death penalty in the event of Islam’s departure. Article 18 of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights not only states that one has the right to private trust. One also has the right to exercise faith with others. The Foreign Minister himself said in the debate on 25 November that developments in human rights in Iran are alarming. Just after this big debate, I received a disturbing e-mail. That was the situation in Indonesia. In the e-mail there was a long description of the great challenges Christians in Indonesia face. Most notably, the pictures of young girls in Poso in October 2005. They were beheaded because they were Christians. Several other young Christian girls are now faithful with throat - mowing. Norway needs to do something here before more girls are killed. The situation in China has, in several respects, been up for debate in the Grand Duchy. The Christian People's Party has recently launched an interpellation on human rights violations in China in the spring of 2005. The country has made great economic progress, but little is done to stop the repression and violation of civil and political rights. Uighur Muslims and Tibetan Buddhists live under cultural and religious oppression. Fans of Falun Gong are tortured, they are sentenced to prison sentences of over 20 years, and they are admitted to mental hospitals or sent to labour camps without trial. Protestants and Catholics are being harassed, churches are being destroyed. Norway has a lot of cooperation with China, and it gives us a good basis for criticising human rights violations. I think we can use the annual round tables in the human rights dialogue more actively. I also think it would be useful to streamline and allocate more resources to organisations and movements working on these issues, such as the use of new technologies. The Oslokolation, the China Programme, Amnesty and the Helsinki Committee. Norway also has a human rights dialogue with Vietnam. Here we find more evidence that religious minorities are brutally tortured by the ruling powers. In particular, this applies to ethnic Hmong Christians and other religious minorities. In view of the many gross violations of human rights, it is very serious to note that there has been little political pressure on states that refuse to uphold their right to religious and religious freedom. I've picked up a few countries. The list is long. Very many people are injured. Every day, man lives in fear of his threat. Norway must do more for these people. I want to come here with concrete measures, so this is not just a debate about words, but about action: Freedom of movement must increase on the political agenda. Every time Norway is in contact with totalitarian regimes, we need human rights and freedom of trust as part of the negotiations and the conversation.We should also engage in closer dialogue with other countries and organisations. Together, we can exert a stronger pressure on states to stop the intrusion and the pursuit of threats.An independent Commission for Freedom of Trust should also be created. This Commission must make annual recommendations to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Such a commission has been created by the United States, and it is considered to be very sensitive and widely used by human rights organisations around the world.The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should draw up an annual report on the freedom of trust. This must be based on own research and on data from independent research institutions, organisations, trade unions and any independent commission.The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be pro-active and in constant dialogue with voluntary organisations working on the topic. There are many people in Norway who are well aware of this field and of the situation in these countries, among others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs can create a position as an ambassador or specialist advisor for international peace of trust.The Ministry should have its own website on the Internet for freedom of trust and religious persecution.Diplomas and extra-territorial candidates should be taught to understand religion and be better informed about violations of human rights in relation to religious rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e693	Unfortunately, for various reasons it took some time for this interpellation to be answered. But recent events have shown how high the matter is, so I thank you for the question. Freedom of religion and life is fundamental to human rights, as the representative Lilletun explains, not only because freedom of religion and life constitutes a fundamental right for every human being, gives identity and is an emotional relationship, but also because religion can be abused, not least in violent conflicts. The work to strengthen freedom of religion and life is part of our overall effort for human rights, and this is a high priority for this government. Freedom of religion and life are closely linked to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for human beings to exercise their religion and outlook on life. It is a right that has been fought through the times of its present status. We have to help keep it intact and not weaken it. Another value has also developed. It is the ability of dialogue, the ability of compromise, an attitude of difference that enables us to live with them and not resort to violence. In many countries, there are restrictions on freedom of organisation to restrict the exercise of religion by citizens. Examples of this are China and Vietnam, where the authorities require all religious groups to be registered and approved. The right to exercise their faith depends on freedom of expression. At the same time, freedom of expression can be used to violate other people's religious practices. It's part of the current conflict around the so-called caricatures, where we see values being set up against each other. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right in our country. It's a feature of our democracy that it's not the government's responsibility to decide what's in the Norwegian media. Editors must take responsibility. It may also be up to the courts to assess whether opinions are of such a nature that they are at odds with the provisions of the law, which limits the use of respect, threats, etc. At the same time, I believe that it is part of freedom of expression to consider what you are printing and not printing, and that it must be allowed to point out that something that has come on pressure, perhaps should have been omitted, without suggesting that the law should prohibit it. I understand that the caricature of the prophet Muhammad is perceived as offensive to Muslims, and that such expressions contribute to strengthening contradictions, increasing tension and polarization within and between cultures. We have to take a clear distance from the violent actions that we've seen lately, as we've been about earlier today. At the same time, I would also like to use this opportunity to thank Muslim communities in Norway, with whom we have good cooperation, and which contribute constructively to dampening tensions through dialogue and bridge construction. Interreligious dialogue is a central instrument both at authority and in civil society. Here I can, among other things: mention the dialogue that has taken place between the Inter-Church Council and the Islamic Council. We will spend time in the future to maintain close contact with Muslim environments and encourage them to use their contact network to help mitigate the tensions that have arisen. It's also part of the larger picture that the representative Lilletun has pulled up. Let me point out some developments that threaten freedom of religion and life, among other things. in the light of the withdrawals by the representative of Lilletun. The fight against terrorism can create challenges for religious and life-synorities. The UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion and Life is concerned about increased religious intolerance as a result of religion being linked to acts of terrorism. The fight against terrorism must not be conducted in such a way as to reinforce distrust and enemy images. And then we're equidistant. When general guarantees of legal certainty are not available in a country, religious minorities are particularly vulnerable to human rights violations. Members of such minorities may run the risk of prolonged prison sentences and, worse still, death sentences, which the representative Lilletun was in. This is the relationship we can't accept. That is why we address violations of freedom of religion and life when it comes to international and bilateral instruments and channels, and we address individual matters where people are imprisoned for their religious beliefs. Through Norway’s human rights dialogues, Norwegian institutions are working to influence the legal systems in, for example: China and Vietnam, along with the parties in these countries. Violations of freedom of religion are linked to inter- and intra-religious conflicts in several countries and are perpetrated by religious groups unrelated to the state. Although each country is responsible for preventing such abuses, religious minorities do not always receive the protection of the authorities. The minority groups are subjected to harassment and serious violence occurs. The fact that, because of lack of ability or will, states are unable to protect their citizens shows that our efforts to promote freedom of faith must also be directed towards civil society. Let me give you an example: Pakistan. The greatest threat to freedom of belief in Pakistan comes from militant Muslim forces. Conflicts between Sunni and Shia Muslims require human lives. There are also attacks on converts, Ahmadiyyas and the Christian minority in the country. Following the initiative of the Pakistani authorities, Norway has committed itself to promoting inter-religious dialogue between Muslims and Christians. The dialogue also constitutes a platform for internal Muslim dialogue with a main focus on responsible and modernising the fundamentalist forces in Pakistan. The Church's emergency aid has played an important role in facilitating this, and it shows the importance of civil society organisations and networks. We want to work through them as one of our strategies. Religious dialogue is thus an important part of Norway's bilateral cooperation with a number of countries, and we want to continue this work. Religious dialogue is an integral part of our work for peace, reconciliation and human rights. We support inter- and intra-religious processes in conflict areas such as the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and as mentioned in Pakistan. Several Norwegian organisations are supported to carry out such work, including: Medieval Council, Church Peace Platform and Church Emergency Assistance. For several years we have also supported the Oslokolation for freedom of belief and life, and are working to promote tolerance, among others. in China, Indonesia, the Caucasus and Central Asia. I must also mention the meeting that Gunnar Stålsett has held in Oslo these days between different religions in Europe, a positive action that the Government will support. The government wants to further develop work on the role of religions in foreign policy. At the turn of the year, a project group on religious dialogue with representatives from external environments was established in Norway. The aim is to exchange and systematise experiences from religious dialogue and point to opportunities to strengthen Norwegian organisation of such dialogues. We will also continue the building of competences on the role of religions in international policy. Through a forum for religion and foreign policy, we will meet regularly with Norwegian environments to discuss the work in this field. The keywords are knowledge, understanding, respect and dialogue. It is through a critical dialogue that we can best exert influence on states where there is a need for increased respect for freedom of belief. Mutual isolation and boycott-like instruments not enshrined in clear UN decisions will be difficult to achieve. Our vision is clearly expressed in all our commitment to the UN, where we, among other things, support actively the UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Religion and Life, and we co-drafted the resolution on freedom of religion and life when it was discussed last harvest. In the countries where possible, we have contacts with human rights defenders and other representatives of civil society. Norway often cooperates with the EU, and we are active support players in the work of the OSCE and the Council of Europe for religious tolerance. Let me also mention that we have developed our own manual in support of human rights activists in many countries. It can come here too. I would like to thank the representative Lilletun for raising this question. This becomes an area government will pay more attention. Broad anchoring in Stortinget will be a goal for the further formulation of policy. I have also taken note of the proposals made by the representative Lilletun. All the suggestions we want to study with interest, and we want to report back our assessment of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e735	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, an answer I perceive to be largely positive. There are many of the measures that were referred to and that have had a longer history behind them, as well as initiatives taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which I think are very positive. In Our Country today, Bishop Younan, the Lutheran bishop of Jerusalem, expresses the need for more dialogue between religions and not least between Islam and Christianity. He emphasizes the work of the Oslokolation relative to that very piece. After what was said in the debate after the Prime Minister's statement today, and that many have given praise to the Muslim communities in Norway, it is quite obvious that one of the reasons why one has closed is that this was not entirely unprotected in the Norwegian environment. The Oslokolation and other forces in Norway have built long-term trust between these environments, to which it is actually important to point, and that is the work that Bishop Younan is asking for an even greater international promotion. I therefore welcome the fact that a support for religious dialogue between church leaders nationally and internationally is being launched, and like that one also supports a people for people's cooperation – a human being for human cooperation – between voluntary organizations within the different religions. I had in my supplementary questions intended to challenge the Council of State on the specific proposals that I have made, but he has already denied that he will take a positive view of it with regard to a review, so I would just say that I look forward to that feedback. I believe that the answer from the Foreign Minister today should be the basis for Norway to further strengthen the position that we have in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e746	I think the representative Lilletun and I look very much like many of these questions. In my presentation, I underlined the importance of human rights and working along several lines. Here, too, I think we have a common vision. Whether parts of the measures proposed are already covered or can be accommodated in other ways, we shall then consider with respect. I would also like to agree with what has been said, and which has actually been little in public, namely how the Inter-Church Council and the Islamic Council have been working for several weeks on this issue that has now exploded internationally. In meeting both the parties, I have come to understand that it has been working wisely, focused and responsible with this matter long before the public became aware of it. I think those dialogues are some reason why, as the representative Lilletun also says, this matter has been dealt with wisely in Norwegian society. We are also concerned about this in the broader foreign policy context. However, I would like to stress the importance of not isolating the religious dimension in our approach to international conflicts and dialogue processes, because it is often linked to economic, social, etc., and is also on guard against the danger that authoritarian forces exploit religious flows and attitudes to promote authoritarian political goals. However, having increased knowledge of how religion plays its part in our field — foreign policy — has provided the basis for the actions I mentioned, such as the creation of a dedicated forum, increased research and increased contact with different networks. At the same time, I would like to say that I fully agree with the role of Oslokolation, but it is also worrying, as we heard on the radio today, that Trond Bakkevik had to announce that a scheduled meeting had to be postponed because of what is now happening in the Middle East around these questions. It also shows how vulnerable such positive measures are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e753	Let me first give credit to the interpellant for an extremely important and also very topical interpellation, that everyone has the right to exercise their religion, private and public, without persecution, without harassment. All declarations and conventions on fundamental human rights establish the right to freedom of religion and life as an important foundation. Religion and religious practice are part of the identity of individuals. The work to ensure freedom of religion will always be part of our overall effort for human rights. We see that this right is being violated, as both the interpellant and the minister have said, all over the world. In Oslo, for example, we have. something called the Ahmadiyya Community, which has fled persecution in Pakistan. We see that Christians are being persecuted in Iran and Palestine. In China, the authorities require all religious groups to be registered and approved. We all remember the abuses against all religious practices in former Communist states. In Norway, § 135a of the Penal Code states: ‘Whoever, intentionally or grossly negligently, makes a discriminatory or hateful statement is punished by fines or imprisonment.’ Further, it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘Discrimination or hateful expression means to threaten or defy any, or promote, hatred, persecution or illegitimateness towards any because of their) skin colour or national or ethnic origin, b) religion or outlook, or c) homosexual orientation, way of life or orientation.’ This means that in Norway we actually have a very strong legal protection against violation of religions and religious symbols. The current situation means that we still have to challenge the fundamental right to religiousexecution also against other rights. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and, to the extent that the interpellant also drew attention to the relationship between respect for the individual's faith and religious practice and freedom of expression, which has also been a theme before today. There may also be other contradictions between different parts of the World Declaration on Human Rights. It is established that each individual, man, woman and child is unique with inviolable rights. Individuals shall be protected against repression, from poverty, from abuse and degradation. In several previous debates in this Chamber, I have had problems with the relationship between freedom of religion and fundamental human rights for women. There is an assault on women in the name of religion in a number of Muslim societies, but also in small Christian sects here at home. If there are conflicts between the fundamental human rights of girls and women and the right to religious practice that seem offensive and directly oppressive to women, then I believe that it is the integrity of the individual and the human dignity that must be given priority. Human rights can never be cultural, nor can they be religious. No religious or cultural tradition can defend human rights violations. I would also like to point out to the last foreign minister that religion can be used as an instrument in political repression. In a global world, conflicts between religions and conflicts between different human rights can best – and perhaps only – be resolved through dialogue. Therefore, we must support interreligious ecumenical processes in conflict areas such as the Middle East, while systematically supporting individuals and groups against oppression in the name of religion and ensuring the right to religious practice as part of the individual's personal integrity, that is. religious practice without persecution and without harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e788	I will first of all give tribute to the representative Lilletun, who in this way focuses on a very important topic and a very important right, namely the right to freely exercise his religion, private and public, either alone or together with others, a right which is taken for granted in our part of the world and which has become very topical in these days. The interpellant indicates that both Christian and Muslim leaders are being persecuted in China and Vietnam, and in many cases this also leads to death sentences. He goes on to refer to the situation in Turkmenistan, Pakistan, Egypt and Iran, where these rights are not respected. In these places too, persecution and violations of human rights are experienced by some forms of religious practice. I will also draw attention to other places in the world where freedom of religion is rife. In Saudi Arabia there is also no freedom of religion. All inhabitants must be followers of official religion, and religious freedom is not protected by any law either. It is forbidden to practice any other form of religion, and violations are severely punished. Another place where you don't respect other religion is Sudan. This discriminates against all those who do not confess to official belief. In Cuba, too, people today find it difficult to exercise their faith. The Cuban people are today refused to import religious symbols and literature. The totalitarian Cuban regime also refuses to run institutions such as schools, hospitals, health clinics and hospitals to help disadvantaged people. However, it may seem that it is not the exercise of religion itself that is the problem for Cuban authorities, but the fact that activities are carried out which the State itself has not initiated and over which it does not have complete control. I am very pleased with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' feedback. However, I would not ask him to forget the other places in the world where these rights, which we in Norway take for granted, unfortunately do not apply, and where freedom of worship and religion cannot be exercised freely. I wish the Foreign Minister every success in following this up in international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e801	The interpellant deserves a great deal of thanks for having travelled this interpellation – almost without knowing what he did at the time he delivered it. But what we've experienced in recent weeks has been an alarm for Ola Nordmann in many ways. We have made it easy to live in the belief that what is of course for us is of course for the whole world – because it is of course for us. The reality is that the majority of today’s world lives in societies that either do not have religious freedom at all or practice a very limited form of religious freedom. The part of humanity that lives in societies where there is full religious freedom constitutes a small minority. Therefore, it is important that we remind each other that of all the defined human rights, there is probably no one less obvious than the right to free exercise of religion and view of life. In today's debate in a slightly different context, we would like to say that freedom of expression is not an obligation to express itself. It may be true in some contexts, but in some contexts it's spinning, because when it comes to protesting against fundamental human rights abuses, the use of freedom of expression is not an optional exercise. There is a moral obligation to speak from in plain language. It is not acceptable that humans have no freedom to leave a religious community to join another, if they have personally been convinced of it. There is no argument that can defend any political regime, no matter what it looks like, and no matter what ideology it confesses to, forces people to end up in a particular religious community. In very many countries in today's world, there is danger not only to lose social rights but to life and health, to try to leave a majority religious community to join a minority group. Let me stress that freedom of religion in this context, of course, also includes the right not to join any religious community, the right not to believe in any god and to express it publicly – of course. It is essential that we act in such a way as to deal with other countries in Norwegian foreign policy that we never, for opportunistic reasons, for example. Norwegian commercial interests, do not use the freedom of expression to protest on behalf of minorities exposed to harassment. Forced to believe your fool's speech, Nikolai Frederik Severin Grundtvig wrote in his time. And that's as true as it's said, but it takes a hell of a time before it goes up for people. So, unfortunately, there are still a lot of regimes in this world that believe that just coercion is the right way to regulate human behavior in the most sensitive of all areas. Let me end by saying that I believe many of the thoughts that the interpellant traveled in the form of proposals may have something to do with it, without it being right to take a stand for them on a tight arm. But I interpret the Foreign Minister's answer so that he will look at them and evaluate them thoroughly and then give a feedback to the Stortinget on how the Government will follow up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e818	Also, I would like to commend the interpellant very much for having raised a very important issue, a very topical issue. The answer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs also shows that the Government takes this seriously, as was the case with the representative for Wage. I would also like to clarify that freedom of religion and faith is fundamental human rights which it is important to protect. So there has been increased attention to these rights over the past few days and weeks, and it has been connected to freedom of expression as another fundamental right. We have been reminded of the absolute importance of freedom of expression – even fundamentally for freedom of religion, for the exercise of faith. But freedom of expression is not universally applicable to all other human rights. Here it has to be a balance. One right cannot be used as a protection to violate the rights of others, including the right to freedom of religion and belief. This was the basic position SV had, and as we expressed when the Storting treated the freedom of speech message. So that's right, as the interpellant said, we can't rank human rights. That is why I fully agree with the representative Nybakk when she says that religion can be used to violate the fundamental rights of women, and here we must be quite clear on these rights. So the Foreign Minister said that the fight against terrorism can be used to violate religious and life-view rights. This is also an aspect we have to be very alert to. We can never use the fight against terrorism to violate fundamental human rights. In an international context, Norway, as part of the United Nations, has participated in signing the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and Discrimination on the Basis of Religion or Faith. The declaration has proved to be important in relation to the work carried out by the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion and Life. In her report for 2004, she says that the amount of information she has received on matters and situations falling under her mandate has been overwhelming. By contact in writing with various countries regarding possible violations of freedom of religion and life, she states in her report that countries such as China, Israel, Indonesia and Nigeria have not even responded to the requests. This is one of the perspectives that it is important to take into account also in the reform work that the UN should carry out; it is precisely that countries should be more able to be held responsible for their actions in this area as well. One of the countries that has been in focus is Iran. The Special Rapporteur points out in her report that she is still waiting for feedback from the authorities in Iran about her request to make an investigative visit to the country. It has been shown in various reports, it has also been found here, and from different sources that Iranian authorities are exposing people with a different belief from Islam to widespread discrimination, including education, labour market, housing market and justice. The right to higher education is linked to a separate examination, in order to demonstrate Islamic theology. Converts are harassed and subjected to discrimination and imprisonment because of their faith. And – this was also something that the interpellant raised – this is knowledge that we will have to use when asylum seekers from Iran come to Norway and ask for protection because they are persecuted for their faith. Last year, the Norwegian authorities deported an Iranian conversion back to Iran. He was reported missing, and appeared several months later after being imprisoned and subjected to torture. On the Witch is an Iranian woman in church asylum. There she has been sitting for five years because she is converted and fears what will happen to her if her expulsion decision is enforced. When we in Norway are committed to defending fundamental human rights such as freedom of religion and life, we must also leave it with consequences in Norway. Like the interpellant, I'm also worried about the signals given by UNE in this area. And I very much agree with the interpellant that we have to use the knowledge and competence of non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e835	I agree with those who have said that this is a very important debate. It is important that the Storting debate from time to time the situation of fundamental human rights, which freedom of belief is. It is part of an important awareness both in the political environment and in our home social debate. The developments of the last few days provide a very dramatic backdrop for this debate, and underline once again the importance of this topic. It touches on one of the most fundamental aspects of human identity and integrity. At the same time, it's a cross of thought that some cartoons in some Western media have received such enormous attention all over the world as what we've seen in the last few weeks, while systematic and fundamental violations of human faith in regimes after regimes all over the world hardly pay attention. In the UN Declaration of Human Rights, freedom of belief is explicitly stated in Article 18: «Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the freedom to change religion or faith, and the freedom to express their religion or belief through teaching, practice, worship and rituals either alone or with others, and public or private.’ These are strong and clear words, and they are universal. They apply to all people, regardless of their cultural, political and social context. Reports from many countries document violations of these rights. The situation varies from lack of protection of faith minorities on the part of authorities to regular persecution under the authority’s direction. In some cases, there is more sporadic abuse; in others, violations of human rights are more permanent and systematic. A review of the experience of the last century shows that the abuses have been many, but there is also progress in the work on freedom of belief. I would particularly like to highlight two cultural spheres in which freedom of religion has been particularly vulnerable. One has been in communist societies, where the state has actively championed an atheistic ideology and persecuted people who would exercise their religious faith, both Christians and others. The collapse of communism in Eastern Europe and the dissolution of the Soviet Union gave a new opening to freedom of belief. But unfortunately, religious freedom continues to be violated in some countries that used to be part of the old Soviet Union, and other countries that are in a communist historical tradition. The interpellant explained this in its statement, and there are issues that Norway should actively address. I would like to stress, as the Foreign Minister did, that it is important that it be followed up in practice. It is tempting in diplomatic and political relations to sub-communicate our reactions to violations of human rights. It must never be Norway's line. The other region in which freedom of belief has been partly severely restricted is the Muslim part of the world, and I would like to stress that this varies the situation. In some places there is relatively free relations, in other Muslim societies the Sharia law is strictly followed – leaving Islam and joining another faith is prohibited and can be punished with death, according to the Sharia law. And that happens. Freedom of faith and tolerance go hand in hand, and precisely by learning to live side by side with people of another faith, a culture is created in which different views can be expressed without giving rise to violent demonstrations, persecution, killing threats, firestitching and attacks on embassies. Here, there is a clear up-to-date picture of the current situation in Norway. What we're facing in Norway is a test, a test of whether we can do this. We're going to answer for our own tolerance and our own ability to live in mutual respect after this test has passed. I hope we will pass it. Let me conclude by expressing satisfaction at the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with a positive interest, will enter into the proposals that the interpellant made, and come back in an appropriate manner with a follow-up to it. I believe that there are many good and important proposals that will dress Norway well to follow up, but not least it is incredibly important for all those people who at this moment feel that their faith is being violated, that their freedom of religion is being restricted, but who do not get headlines on the BBC and CNN and in other international media.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e858	Interpellant Lilletun has rightly focused on an important human right, freedom of belief. The events of the last few days show that this, with freedom of belief and life, is closely related to freedom of expression, as others have pointed out. Many of us in the western part of the world take this right as a matter of course. We've been reminded that we don't have reason to do that. In addition, it is a paradox that many countries outside the Christian cultural circle have fundamentalized freedom of worship. Nevertheless, we must note that the exercise of this right is unfortunately far from being good enough in many of these countries. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has today stated that Norway has an active dialogue with a number of countries where freedom of religion should have better conditions than it has today. I think we have to be honest enough to admit that we have a solid piece of work ahead of us before the individual people around the world have the democratic rights that we take for granted. But it does not give us the right to place less emphasis on the important work of getting democratic rights in place. The Central Party will be an active driver in anchoring freedom of belief in the different countries of the world, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has today confirmed that it is also the government's political goal to work on this. But it must also be a common task for all democratic forces to continue and develop this work in order to achieve a common goal of securing important democratic rights in a globalised world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e867	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant in person for raising the issues. Then I want to start with a little personal story: I spent Christmas 2000 in Bethlehem. It was a great experience. I lived with a Christian Palestinian family with whom I am friends, which led to six hours of interrogation when I was going out, of course. I was asked why I had been to Bethlehem, and then I said it was a great experience for me to be in Bethlehem on Christmas Eve as a Christian. This is the first time I've met with a scornful laugh and a scornful comment. So I thought, you're truly lucky, Trine, who's grown up in such a country that you're 30 years before you meet a scornful comment on the basis of your faith. What I think is a perspective we can have – how lucky we are that grow up in the society we do, and that actually respects the human rights that are being promised here. What I think is important comes out in the debate, and which we shall all agree on, the fact that there has been a debate in this forum, is that some people prioritise some human rights in front of other human rights, cf. a debate we have had on Cuba. It's actually not possible to prioritize human rights. There is no human right that is more important than another. There is no human right that can be lifted in front of another. Therefore, when one right restricts the right of another person, as the other female debaters in this debate have promised before, it is actually also a violation of human rights. When one person’s freedom of belief limits another person’s rights or freedom, it is a violation of the freedom of others, no matter how we turn and turn on it. Many good comments have been made in this debate. I also think it is a challenge in our part of the world, in our societies, where faith is becoming more and more private and forced to become more and more private, to allow faith to be part of the public space. So I have two comments on today's situation, which has made the interpellant's question even more topical. I have great faith in religious dialogue, and I have great faith that we can be a country of the past to try to get the dialogue going, and there's also a lot to do here. But I also believe that the Norwegian Church has a special responsibility for being such a large religious community in our country that it can be a driving force for the religious dialogue. The second perspective, which would also have been interesting to hear the foreign minister's opinion, is that, in my opinion, a democratic system presupposes that ideas are put into different categories of opinion. Some of our concern when communism fell in Eastern Europe was that the only system of opinion that could address communism in countries that have not had strong democracies before was nationalism. We did a lot to avoid that. The Norwegian and Western parties used quite a lot of energy to avoid nationalism being the only political system that could take over Communism. In a number of other countries that are trying to introduce democracy, religion is the only political system that can take over the dictatorship. I think it is a great task for us in Western countries to give as alternative democratic thinking systems and thinking sets that are not necessarily linked to religion or associated with nationalism. By that I don't mean that we should export our ideologies. But I think that all democracies that are going to work over time have to be able to establish thoughtsets and ideologies that don't make religions or national emotions stand up to each other. It's a challenge we have to take inward into the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e882	I would like to thank all those who have spoken in this debate for the evidence that there is a strong united political Norway who will fight for religious freedom, freedom of faith and freedom of assembly. Then we live with a lot of dilemmas. I started my article by quoting Jürgen Habermas, one of the greatest philosophers of our time, and there is no doubt that his reference to the fact that we in the West – but above all Europe – have somehow ignored the religious dimension is a very interesting and important reference. Perhaps the events of the last weeks, perhaps we have been multicultural, and that those who have lived in Norway with other religions, are also clearer about their religion, can make us more aware. We also need awareness of our own religion in order to have a proper dialogue and respect the others. Then there is a paradox, as many have said, that in the international community it is primarily the states that still recognize communism, and those who are Muslims, who have problems with what we have discussed today. It also varies there, but they have problems. At the same time, they have signed the UN Human Rights Act in total. Obviously, there's an observation we can do. And then, in those possessions, we have to work to actually lift this up, and that one dares to lift it up in the light, discuss it, and try to improve it. It owes it to freedom of expression, it has the right to convert, and it has the right to exercise and practice its trust. The suggestions that I had on what we can do to further increase our efforts, I look forward to getting feedback on. Then I will conclude as the representative Johannes Østtveit of the Christian People's Party did in the debate in 1972. He said it this way: ‘A awakening of world opinion is the most important support that the persecuted can get.’ I’m overconfident that the Norwegian government takes this seriously and is part of this world opinion, is the best help that the individual living in daily oppression can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e895	I would also like to thank you for many good articles and interesting lights on this big and important topic. I really don't want to comment on each one of them, because I think they're good on their own. I would like to make three comments, one to the representative Skei Grande. I fully agree that there are some dilemmas – what's going on instead of religion, what's going on instead of an authoritarian system, relation to nationalism. It's a big, complex question, but I want to emphasise the importance of the development of civil society. What was missing in the Communist states was a civil society with diversity, pluralism and the ability to squander views around in a way that allows us to live with differences. Many of these countries have come a long way, especially those who bear great European cultural traditions. But also other countries in what was the former Soviet territory are struggling with it, so in our cooperation with these countries we must also focus on what we can do. Perhaps it is small, but nevertheless important to stimulate cooperation between civil societies. Then it's Habermas' observation that we have 'neglected the religious dimension'. There may be a lot of thinking around, but I think the events of the last few days in many ways illustrate how foreign the term «faith» is from our change of words, and that belief, in line with our social traditions, is largely made a private matter. I think that's right, but at the same time, it's an expression that we're going to be strangers and maybe insecure in handling it. Today, a professor of law is quoted in Dagbladet as saying "May you be able to fool with Muhammad". Yes, you can, according to our freedom of expression. But I believe that that statement itself leaves in mind how we deal with the kind of terms that are important to others. The last thing I want to say is we have to look at ourselves. The danger in this situation is whether we resort to some sort of idyllic idea that everything is good here, although, as the representative Schei Grande says, it's better here than many other places. I get worried about hearing great young people with Muslim faith say that they experience a kind of pressure every day, and that they bend their necks for their faith. We cannot accept a belief that results in violence, intolerance and violation of Norwegian law. But as we've been repeated several times, and can't repeat enough: most Muslims don't have that kind of faith manifesto. I think it's historical parallels of a very suspicious character of people who, by their faith, bend their necks. In his article the other day in the paper, he refers to the Israeli writer Amos Oz, who writes in his book about his growth, how the Jews had to bend their necks, keep a low profile so as not to be tormented for their faith. I get worried that people say that they experience the same thing in our society here, which further underlines the importance of dialogue and taking this seriously in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-08.ana.ud1079e906	As a result, the matters on today's map have been processed.
