ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e56	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to allow up to three lines with post-entry replies to members of the Government. Then the president proposes that those who have to sign up for a list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e65	The aim of the current legislative changes is to allow the fisheries authorities to take further action against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. The widespread illegal overfishing of stocks managed by Norway with other countries is a threat to Norwegian fisheries, employment and settlement along large parts of our coast. The fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing must therefore be pursued at more levels and with different measures. I am very pleased that the Government in this proposition promotes a set of proposals that allow intervention and sanctions against vessels engaged in illegal fishing. Overfishing is largely operated outside the Norwegian fishing jurisdiction by vessels not flying the flag of Norway and by catches landed outside Norway. 90 pst. of the populations taxed by Norway, walking between Norwegian and foreign or international sea areas. The Fisheries Directorate has estimated that overfishing in Norwegian-Arctic cod in the Barents Sea is about 100 000 to 120 000 tonnes each year. It's one-fifth of the total quota and it has a first-hand value of approximately. SEK 1.5 billion. So there's a lot of values here. With the proposal that the Government is now promoting, we are establishing rules for national port State control that will limit the ability of other countries' vessels to engage in illegal fishing. Or rather, the risk of illegal fishing, and its consequences, is much more serious. The proposal proposes to authorise the authorities to refuse to land in Norway unless the flag State of the ship can benefit from lawful catch. At the same time, prohibitions may be imposed on the landing of fish in Norwegian ports from foreign vessels engaged in illegal fishing. This proposal shall also cover transhipment and supply and support services to and from such vessels in Norwegian sea areas, or by Norwegian vessels. Finally, it is proposed that vessels involved in such activities may be refused access to Norwegian internal waters. It is important that the legislation now established in Norway be made known to other fishing nations. Those intending to engage in illegal fishing, i.e.: potential buyers of blacklisted vessels should, for purely general preventive reasons, know the risks they are currently running. The Directorate for Fisheries will establish publicly available lists of actions taken against the vessel in question, on the basis of which the actions have been implemented. For reasons of legal certainty, the quality of the blacklists must be subject to strict requirements. It is also necessary to provide clear instructions on how blacklisted ships can get away from the blacklists after the quarantine period imposed. I am aware that the measures against overfishing can have consequences for other businesses, for example the shipbuilding and service industries north of the country. However, the economic consequences of continuing to date are so serious for all coastal business that they far outweigh the disadvantages of introducing these measures. I also show that during the consultation in Stortinget it was pointed out that there is a need for further legal remedies to penalise Norwegian ships that buy fish that are exposed to illegal fishing. I ask the Government to take a closer look at this in the context of the work on new marine resource law. In recommending the Committee's position, I would like to point out that the Progress Party is against the legislative proposal. I assume that the party will justify this on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e93	Overfishing is an international problem, and international solutions are needed to deal with overfishing. It's not a new date either, it's been going on in the Barents Sea for years. As stated in the proposal, a number of measures have been implemented. Common to these measures is that they have not worked. I don't think you stop overfishing in the Barents Sea with paragraphs and by empowering the government to design regulations. I think it's going to be like other crime: if you want to prevent crime, you have to actually be there where the crime is committed. You don't stop violence in the street by designing a new set of rules, you actually have to be there. This also applies to overfishing in the Barents Sea. What worries me about today's bill is that you can risk ending up with some completely strange measures. I think one of the most important things is to make sure that the largest possible vessel actually comes to Norwegian ports, and that you do not do the opposite, namely to prevent them. If they come to Norwegian ports, you have full access to control what kind of cargo they have, and if the cargo is legally taken. If you introduce this law that is being discussed here, you can actually do the opposite. Because I am quite uncertain whether the control activity in other countries that have agreed to overfish is being complied with as well. I think we've seen a lot of examples of that, and then you end up preventing ships from getting to Norwegian ports, and they're going to other ports. In addition, it will affect business, especially in the churches, but also in other parts of North Norway. And then you can ask the question, is that part of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government? I have to say that it amazes me a lot. If such legislation is to be introduced, it should have been implemented in other countries before it is implemented in Norway. I think the most important thing to do to prevent overfishing in the Barents Sea is to strengthen the Coast Guard, and the Government has strengthened it by a total of 17 million. kr in the budget. You don't get a lot of sailing hours or days out of it. I think that needs to be significantly strengthened. And I have to show that, just now, a proposal from the Advance Party has been voted down to strengthen the Coast Guard by 110 million. kr. Had it been decided, one could have been much more present out there where the overfishing actually takes place. With regard to the legal system in other countries, I just want to refer to the ‘Elektron’ case and to the treatment in the Russian system. Then you get an insight into how other countries view this with overfishing. This is a major challenge for the Norwegian fishing industry, but the solution is not to introduce specific rules for Norway. As I said at the outset, this is an international problem, and Iceland has now called for the resumption of a cod war to defend its interests. I'm not saying that Norway should do the same, but increased presence on the sea is absolutely recommendable. Otherwise I am also a little surprised that you should have a ban that follows the ship. I can see in many ways that that makes sense. But it becomes quite strange to me that only a vessel has a crew who has committed an illegal act, so the ship is blacklisted. It would have been quite strange if the Coast Guard had bought such a ship and could not get into Norwegian ports. But the main point of our appeal against this law is that it's a framework law where the government is to implement the law by regulations. A matter as important as this should be enshrined in law decisions in Stortinget, so that the Stortinget gets involved in the whole and wide debate that I believe this matter had deserved. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e110	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e113	The illegal overfishing in our northern waters is a serious threat to our fishing industry and therefore also to the coastal population's living conditions. Overfishing has implications for industry in addition to the fishing industry itself, especially for the shipbuilding and service industries north of the country. Illegal fishing is to a large extent carried out by vessels not flying the flag of Norway which are outside the Norwegian fishing jurisdiction. Catches are also landed outside Norway. Norway has committed itself, through international agreements, to working for the sustainable management of our marine resources. Right is satisfied that Regeringen has said that it will drive other countries to establish legislation equivalent to that currently introduced in Norway and that control agreements are now being established with other countries on the mutual reporting of landings of fish from third country vessels. Norway has also concluded agreements with our main cooperation countries in the fisheries sector on mutual satellite tracking. The widespread illegal overfishing of stocks managed jointly by Norway with other countries is currently a major challenge in achieving responsible resource management, which has implications for both the fishing stock, the fishing fleet and the fishing industry in Norway. Both Norway and Russia today recognise that there is a significant unreported withdrawal of cod in the Barents Sea. The two nations have as a common priority the aim of using all possible means to detect and prevent these illegalities. According to untapped letters from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Directorate of Fisheries has registered that approx. 2 800 tonnes transhipped cod and approx. 800 tonnes of transhipped haze have landed in Norway in 2005. The Directorate of Fisheries has also drawn up a list of Russian fishing vessels which have been transhipped to flags of convenience. The fishing vessels on this list, according to the estimates of the Directorate, have landed 3,794 tonnes of cod in Norway in 2005 and 613 tonnes of hake. Overall, this is a limited part of the quantity of fish landed in Norway by Russian vessels. The right understands that the Progress Party is skeptical about giving the Government a general law of authority, but we nevertheless believe that due to the gravity of the matter, special instruments must be put in place to deal with overfishing, which harms the Norwegian fishing industry. On Thursday 30 November, it was read that the Advance Party will not ‘forbid blacklist’. They are not willing to sacrifice the business interests in, among others. Churches, where the sale of services to Russian fishing vessels has become a large market for many businesses. Does this mean that the Progress Party, which would very much like to be the law-and-order party, believes that those who are engaged in extensive illegal piracy should be saved because a few traders along the coast can tap into these offenders being taken? In order to maintain and strengthen the important coastal nutrient base in the future, Norwegian fisheries policy needs to be pursued in a way that ensures the long-term and sustainable management of marine resources. Therefore, the right is satisfied that the proposal provides for the prohibition of landing, transhipment or processing of fish in Norwegian ports, supplied by vessels which have participated in or contributed to fishing which are substantially contrary to a desired pattern of taxation or fishing, or which are substantially contrary to fishing rules agreed with a foreign country. Right-wing believes it is important to be consistent in order to survive overfishing and poaching. Therefore, as proposed, ships which are subject to a landing ban should also be refused other services in Norwegian port, such as loading and unloading of all cargo, bunkering and other port services. Right supports setting as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e136	The sustainable exploitation of fishing resources is the very source of Norwegian fisheries policy and a necessary condition for viable coastal fisheries-dependent communities. The fight against the bad guys in the fishing industry must therefore have a high priority on the political agenda. We need to ensure that we have effective means both nationally and internationally, to ensure that liberators do not threaten the resilient management through their overfishing. The market value of illegal, unreported and unregulated fish is estimated to be SEK 1.5 billion. It is a significant threat to the population of, among others, Norwegian Arctic cod. But it is also a threat to – and that is true of the vast majority of those involved in fishing who remain loyal to the laws and regulations. That is why – and we in the Christian People's Party are pleased – we have broad agreement on and support for the proposals made in this proposition. Decisions today allow for measures to be taken, but there is no automatic means of doing so. With the extent of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, we in the Christian People's Party expect the ministry to follow closely and to take the necessary action if the current situation continues. Active information work must also be carried out in relation to these measures, so that not innocent third parties become the unaccompanied framework of restrictions on individual vessels. At the same time, work in international forums will have to continue, in particular with regard to the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, in order to ensure effective international attention and sanctions against illegal fishing. Because it is only through effective international cooperation that we are certain of success. Norway has a main responsibility to ensure that there is always a great deal of attention and focus on the work to preserve a resilient stock of different species of fish, and we will particularly mention measures to keep the population of Norwegian-Arctic cod.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e149	This matter is part of the follow-up to the Government's intentions in the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that an active effort should be made to prevent overfishing and unregulated fishing. Not least in relation to the reasons given by the Progress Party for voting against the bill, I would just like to stress that this bill follows up international recommendations on action in ports. In particular, the proposal shall contribute to preventing foreign fishing vessels from combining legal activities in Norwegian areas with illegal fishing in international waters. It is important to stress that Norway cannot win the fight against illegal cross-border fishing alone. Norway must use any cross-roads as a driver in order for other countries to apply such measures as well. This has also been done by the Government, through the adoption by the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission of similar rules. One has also been passed through the UN in 2006 to promote binding agreements on port State control. And the situation is acute. We need control of the fishing in the Barents Sea. As mentioned earlier today, overfishing has consequences for any Norwegian fisherman for any fishing boat and the economic resources available to them. That is why it is important that we take decisions now and go ahead, in order to help the international community also follow up and implement similar measures. As far as the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission is concerned, proposals for such port State control were made in 2004. It was adopted at the annual meeting in November and will enter into force in May 2007. The proposal means that catches may be refused to the country if the flag State cannot verify that the catch has been taken as part of fishing activities which do not conflict with the tax or fishing pattern desired. Nor can fishing be contrary to the rules on fishing activities agreed with a foreign country. At the same time, it shall be possible to prohibit the landing of fish from foreign vessels which have participated in such fishing. Also, as mentioned, and discussed in particular here in the Chamber, proposed amendments with regard to the prohibition of transhipment, supply and support services to and from such vessels both in Norwegian port and outside Norwegian port through offers from vessels. What is important here is that the rules apply to all foreign vessels and to all fish in the area controlled by the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission. This means that we should be able to control Russian vessels landing cod in the EU, but also control Norwegian vessels that deliver abroad. So it's mutually equal rules, which is very important. I would like to stress that this proposal is an extremely important step in international resource control efforts to ensure sustainable fishing. It is therefore extremely surprising, as many have pointed out, that the Progress Party is opposed to these proposals, on the grounds that there is no international cooperation in order to achieve it. Because that's exactly what I've been trying to point out in my post, that it's the international cooperation that is the basis for Norway to now introduce those rules. And the fact that a wish, as pointed out by the Progress Party, that one should have some sort of semblance in Norwegian ports, I think in a sense – if I dare to use the term – is a kind of double morality. And the Progress Party is the foremost to criticise the Government and the Government's efforts to gain control of overfishing, and they should not at the same time be involved in taking the necessary measures to control the same illegal fishing. It is not a matter of touch, and I think that should be considered by those who are opponents of the law. Then I want to ask: what is the Progress Party really talking about its policy? What kind of international legislation should be awaited before adopting these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e166	Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a global problem that has gained increasing international attention in recent years. From the Norwegian point of view, such fishing is a particularly serious problem in the Barents Sea, where the cod stock has been significantly overfished. The government has made considerable efforts to reduce unreported and unregulated fishing, and will continue to give priority to the important work, including through legislative proposals such as what we are dealing with now. The legislative proposal follows up international recommendations on port action. Foreign vessels participating in such fishing shall be able to be refused the use of Norwegian ports or Norwegian support services. Norway shall be able to contribute to the hunting of vessels engaged in illegal fishing from port to port. The proposals promoted in Ot.prp. No 98 for 2005-2006, is not intended to be exhaustive for all current authorisations against UUU fishing. A broader treatment of control facilities will be undertaken in the context of work on a new marine resource law. However, the Government considers that the introduction of the proposed provisions cannot be suspended for the treatment of such a new marine resource law. I note that the Progress Party in the suspension of the Food Committee does not agree with the views of the Committee on the need for stricter Norwegian control rules to be applied to countries. The members of the Progress Party seem to be most concerned that, following the proposal, the current UUU vessels could lose the opportunity to benefit from the provision of such support services in the future. I then wonder whether the Progress Party believes that consideration of the short-term revenues of the shipyards from the relatively few vessels operating UUU fishing should take precedence over the desire to introduce the necessary measures against overfishing in the Barents Sea. Do they believe that Norway should not be a driving force for stricter national rules in this area, but simply join the minimum solutions that need to be agreed on internationally? The progress party also asks for more control and suggests that 15 pst. random control of landings, to which the rules of the NEAFC, the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, are insufficient. At the same time, the Progress Party in its 2007 Alternative State Budget proposes to cut significantly the operational budget of the Directorate of Fisheries. That's where they propose a cut of $12 million. kr, and in the case of the inspection fee for the fishing fleet, the Advance Party proposes to liquidate the entire fee of more than 21 million. kr. It will affect the control activities of the Directorate on land and in port, catch record checks, farm book audits, satellite tracking and a number of other control activities and measures essential to the Coast Guard's maritime fisheries control. This will lead to much less resource control. In order to obtain effective control, it must be checked at all stages. The government has followed up by proposing increased appropriations for the Directorate-General for Fisheries control. For the concrete proposals: the Progress Party proposes that ‘The Swedish Government begs the Government to work for an international regulatory framework to prevent the landing of illegal fishing catches’. We agree, and the Government has done so for the longest time, both through the FAO, which has developed an international action plan for port State control, with Norway pushing and with Norwegian professional experts as precursors. The recent decision of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission is mentioned by several and can be mentioned again. In June 2006, a Norwegian proposal for a global UN port State control agreement was widely supported by the UN review conference on high seas fishing. Norway plays a central, active role in the preparation of such an agreement in the FAO. Then it is suggested that ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen control at sea in order to prevent overfishing’. We are also proposing reinforced maritime action. We have proposed increased resources to the Coast Guard both for the year's budget and for the next year's budget. But I would like to make it clear that the proposal for an increased framework for the Coast Guard is constitutionally below the Minister of Defence. However, the legislative proposal under discussion is precisely aimed at covering overfishing in sea areas where Norway is not able to enforce Norwegian law and Norwegian control over foreign ships at sea in the framework of international conventions on which Norway is bound. The proposals of the Progress Party on Coast Guard Increases at the same time as a desire to cut the resources of the Directorate of Fisheries show that there is not a complete link between the proposals for maritime action and action in ports and land-based control.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e186	I must first remind the Council of State that he is the Council of State now, not a party politician and a big representative of the Workers' Party, and perhaps therefore should focus more on explaining the matter and the law rather than attacking the Progress Party. But now it has to be. I just have to remind you that the proposition actually says that a lot of measures have been taken to bring down overfishing. But in common with all the measures taken, they have not worked. There's black on white in the proposition. I am a little surprised that you can't wait until you process the Sea Resource Act until you go into concrete legislative proposals. As we assess the problem, it is simply so that a number of laws and paragraphs can be introduced, but as long as they are not complied with by other countries, you will no longer come. Only take the ‘Elektron’ case. Does the Council of State believe that Russian legislation is similar to Norwegian overfishing? Then I think in particular about the "Elektron" thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e196	No, I'm not going to say that Russian law is similar to Norwegian law. I am trying to follow the alternative of the Advance Party in this matter. I must admit that there is a political difference between our parties, and I am sorry if it is inconvenient. I mean the same party political now as when I was a staging representative, so it shouldn't be a big problem. But it will be that if we do not give this opportunity to control – because here it is about controlling boats that fish irregularly in international waters, although they can legally fish in Norwegian waters; that's where the control comes into the picture – we can, with the Progress Party's position, end up in a situation where ships that are unwanted in Russia can find their haven in Norway. I think that would be a very unfortunate situation. This bill is intended to build up under the great job that the real Minister for Fisheries has done, also in order to strengthen and establish international agreements. But they have to be enforced nationally, and this is a contribution in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e207	No one else has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e210	In fact, both the Directorate and the Department could have gone even further in sharp proposals for action. When I ask for the floor in this case, it is to comment on the very remarkable approach the Progress Party has to take to this matter. It cannot be ignored that both what has been achieved in the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission and the sum of all other measures, in many ways, have brought these issues to light. It is out in the international market that we need to get more attention on these issues. In fact, we are talking about some of the biggest economic crime in Europe. We're talking about a resource crime that's one of the worst things we see on the northern hemisphere. The fact that the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, the Skagerrak and the Kattegat have done the same bad thing seems to have made no impression on the Progress Party. The Progress Party seems to have an approach to these issues in the direction that because others act as thieves, we can do it too, for our own sake. What in the whole world kind of approach is this to a question and a matter of this severity? The Progress Party has an approach in which they say that international issues and problems need to be resolved internationally. Yes, of course, they have to be solved internationally, when we know that the fish we share with other countries, and we're going to sell the Norwegian production internationally. Who is the one who makes the most of our cleaning up in these circumstances? It's just Norway. Norway is the biggest loser in the fact that we have a system running where not all those involved in Russian fishing are criminals, but it will be a major advance for Norway if we contribute to criminal Russians being taken. Therefore, everyone involved in this activity, and especially from the Russian side, should have been published. We have hundreds of ships on which there might have been a spotlight, so that everyone knew when criminals made landings, whether it was in Norway or in another country. Therefore, it is important that Norway does not lose face, that we do not participate in the international debate in some sort of embarrassment. Norway is the one that makes the most of putting on the leadership we have to have on these questions if we are to achieve results. Then we cannot have the approach to these questions that because the other countries deal with thief fish – probably with some sort of dark, black profit – we can do it too. No one else has more to lose on it than just Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e221	It is quite incomprehensible that the Progress Party is actually going against sanctions against vessels engaged in illegal fishing. Otherwise, the party of progress prefers to appear to be the party most frequently complaining of a lack of action against black fishing. So now they will not put into practice what they call 'one-sided action', when the Government just does what the Progress Party asks, namely to follow up what is enshrined in international agreements and regulations. The alternative would, of course, be that the measures that the law now provides would not be implemented. So the party uses purely formal justice to justify its resistance to the law itself. I must say that this kind of double political accounting is not a believer. The party of progress rarely denies itself. I therefore suspect that the real reason why the Progress Party is going against the bill is that it could affect commercial interests in the Kirkenes area. As a result, it is only natural that the representative of Korsberg now wishes to welcome the black fishermen to Norwegian ports, for service and for support functions – rather than being referred to abroad. This form of political double morality is quite alone, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e228	I just have to be allowed to refer to the vote, where we make it quite clear that we want to do what is possible to stop overfishing and that the legislative measure should be anchored in concrete legislative proposals. That is why we oppose this law, which is a framework law. I can in so many ways understand Right's criticism, because Right's just going on what they did when they put in government, nothing, to stop overfishing. It's probably very comfortable for the Right just to lean back and leave this to the Government. That was good practice for the time you were in government. It's great that the Right wants to go on with it. We do not want that, we actually want to be active and promote proposals and make concrete measures to stop overfishing, because it is one of the most important things. But to trust the Government in this situation, we don't. We've given the government some bragging earlier when they've been working with agreements internationally. The last time I was up in Stortingen's pulpit and did that was when we had the throne debate. Then I boasted to the government because they had made some agreements. But the most important thing about an agreement is that the agreement is complied with. If you have an agreement and it is not complied with, it does not help much, however good that agreement is. As far as the business of the Church is concerned, of course, we are concerned about that. I find it sad that representatives come up on this pulpit and say that they are not concerned about the business of the Church. But that's not the argument that we're going against this amendment of the law. You have to be aware that not all Russian vessels are fishing illegally. Many of them fish perfectly legally, and go to Norwegian ports. But how the will to go to Norwegian ports with these ships, when one risks that the Norwegian authorities introduce a code that is so strict that everyone is almost suspected when they get here, is actually something that concerns me. But I am definitely going to be involved and debate overfished in all other contexts, and then I hope that we actually have concrete legislative proposals. I think the most important thing in the future will be to strengthen the Coast Guard and strengthen international cooperation with Russia. Stoltenberg called for a stronger dialogue with Russia in the North Region strategy he presented in Tromsø. I hope you can do that when it comes to overfishing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e239	The party making progress uses, as its closest argument, the fact that the measures against overfishing have not produced any results. Then I want to go into that exact argument. I would argue that it is not right to claim that the measures in force have not had an effect, even if the overfishing has been at a rather constant level. There is a great likelihood that overfishing would have been more likely if those measures had not been taken. The point is that conditions such as fish availability and stock size affect the level of overfishing, so that the overfishing figures for a single year could in any case give an indication of the effectiveness of the measures. That should be quite clear to all of us. But what we know, and what has happened, is that there are a number of isolated cases where vessels on the North-East Atlantic Commission B list of vessels from other countries that have participated in illegal fishing have been taken out of the fishing and are at berth. That is a consequence of those measures. At least they're at the dock for a while. It is a vessel that more or less continuously engages in illegal activities. At the same time, many enquiries have been made by ship owners trying to get out of this blacklist. They have been flagged to Russian flag, or have made direct enquiries to the same Commission, without having so far led to the removal of the vessels from the lists. The market price of these vessels is likely to have fallen and the owners of such vessels engaged in illegal fishing have suffered losses as a result of the measures put in place. So claiming that this has not had an effect, is probably a gross understatement, if I'm going to use that term. But I also want to say that the measures proposed here are only part of a chain of control measures. Port control is part of our international control cooperation. It is also necessary to look at the measures implemented in cooperation with Russia to look at the whole chain. It is important to point out here that a number of measures have been adopted focusing on transhipment at sea, transhipment and landing reporting obligations, satellite tracking, the prohibition of transhipment to receiving vessels flying flags of convenience, the control system implemented, the exchange of information, etc. My point is that using as an argument to go against the scheme, that it has not had an effect, is using an argument that is wrong. The measures have been effective, but one must look at developments over time before one can reach the final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e254	I did not intend to speak in this debate. I think Lars Peder Breck, Right and the Council of State, of course, have presented this matter in an exemplary way. I fully agree with what the Council of State has said on the occasion of the case. But I just have to say that I get a little tempted when I hear what the Spring Party's Korsberg says. When he says that he agrees that overfishing is a major international problem that requires international solutions, and says that if you are to prevent crime in relation to fishing, you have to be present where it takes place, it becomes a little strange to me that they do not choose to participate in this solution that the Government has come up with. They say that strange measures will not be very good. No, I know that it's difficult and demanding to be a bellow and go first into a new terrain. But I think we have to dry it in this context. You can't just accept good measures because they're not perfect. In search of the optimum, it is possible to take one step at a time. I believe that what is here today is constructive. It will bring us closer to the goal: to avoid getting more and more illegal overfishing, and to reduce resources, which will be both a threat to the fish and to society along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e263	It is with a certain degree of surprise that I find that the Right with great goodwill today is going in to adopt a framework law that will give the Government a very extended regulatory right. Many speakers have argued that there must be a basis for international legislation. There must be a reason for very much of the activity that Norway has and wants to have, both economically and in other ways in the north. Today we have a discussion about the Svalbard zone, where Spain and Russia clearly have opinions, and we have a discussion about the Barents Sea and the pedestal northwards below the ice, where Spain and Russia too will clearly have an opinion. I think we need to ask ourselves whether these countries will not experience it as a lack of cooperation and cooperation from the Norwegian authorities, if a law is passed that will so unilaterally impose demands – justly legitimate demands – but without having a dialogue with Russia and Spain on this. I don't think that's wise. I note that there is an important presence in the Barents Sea. It's about departmental helicopters for the Coast Guard. It's about the Coast Guard actually having to be at sea, and it's about having to have planes to monitor Norwegian and international sea areas. I don't fully understand how this is going on in conjunction with, among other things. SV's proposal to buy trains instead of buying aircraft for monitoring. I don't think – it's been mentioned before from this pulpit – that it's possible to monitor the Barents Sea by train. In that case, it's the first government that ever got into it. We stand by our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e274	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e290	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Then the president proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e299	The purpose of this legislative proposal is to remove uncertainty in relation to the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of workers and services, as it is called in the field of ministerial terminology. In clear language, this means that a nationality requirement is replaced by a residence requirement in the Fisheries Prohibition Act. The law requires that at least half of the crew or lottiffs and the driver or owner of Norwegian fishing boats should either be Norwegian nationals or reside in Norway. So that's the way it is today. The proposed amendment of the legislation means that the requirement for residence is maintained and defined as a requirement for residence in coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities of coastal municipalities for masters and at least half of the crew. The Ministry has proposed a right of dispensation for masters. The entire Committee, on the recommendation of the Minister for Fisheries, has agreed to extend the dispensation of masters of vessels to masters of the EEA, Faroe Islands and Greenland. This captures cases where it is difficult to recruit qualified boatmasters in Norway. The reason for the amendment is that in 2000 the Norwegian-registered beam trawler ‘Kvitsjön’ fished outside the territorial waters with the Dutch captain and crew who did not comply with the residence requirement. The Norwegian shipping company was fined, but brought an action before Norwegian courts claiming that the fishing ban law violates the EEA Agreement rules on the free movement of workers. The plaintiff was upheld in the civil court, but the state appealed, and Agder's law set aside the judgment of the city court. The shipowner filed a complaint with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. ESA has concluded in a reasoned opinion of 2 April 2004 that the Norwegian nationality and residence requirement is contrary to Article 28 of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of workers and Articles 1 and 4 of Council Directive EEC/1612/68. I will not go into a review and assessment of EU law here and now. I note briefly that we now have a law that is accepted by the EEA. The Ministry also proposes that the amendment to the Fishing Prohibition Act should apply from 1 January 2007, and the Committee agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e321	I'm not going to make any long posts, but I just want to point out that here there has been a bill for consideration in the committee, a bill we have received from the Government. This has led the Committee, during its work on the Committee, to the improvement of this legislative proposal. It shows, not least in view of the previous case, that it is important for the Storting to have the opportunity to deal with specific legislative proposals in order to improve them – as we have done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e328	The right is satisfied that the Government is now updating the existing legislation in relation to the EEA Agreement and thus removing the uncertainty as to whether Norway fulfils its obligations under the EEA Agreement in view of the legislation on the free movement of workers and services. The amendment no longer imposes nationality requirements on those who will be crewed on Norwegian fishing vessels. On the other hand, the requirement of residence in Norway is maintained and at least half of the crew shall reside in a Norwegian coastal municipality or neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality. The requirement of residence, as it is now being implemented, contributes primarily to the benefit of the coastal population, while the changes in the bill help to ensure Norwegian fishermen's rights and ensure Norwegian wages and working conditions for crews and fishermen. We all know that the recruitment situation in the fishing fleet is difficult because of a tight labour market in general, and the net pay regime in shipping in particular. The right is therefore satisfied that the proposal, as it has now been formulated, can capture unfortunate outcomes of residence requirements. We live in a globalized world. The background for extending the exemption is that a few Norwegian masters are permanently residing outside Norway. In some cases it has been found to be difficult to recruit qualified masters in Norway, in particular for specialised fishing. The right is satisfied that, in exceptional cases, exemptions from the residence requirement are now granted. The decision is forward-looking and an important step in the right direction to ensure flexible and good recruitment conditions for the industry in an increasingly globalised society. The right is therefore satisfied that an overall committee agrees to extend the freedom of exemption to masters residing in the EEA territory, Faeroes and Greenlanders, in cases where it is difficult to recruit qualified masters in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e345	The legislative proposal we are now considering, Ot.prp. No 99 for 2005-2006 means that the Norwegian nationality requirement of the Fishing Prohibition Act for masters of vessels and at least half of the crew of Norwegian fishing vessels are not maintained. However, the requirement for residence in the State is maintained and clarified to a qualified residence requirement in the form of requirements for residence in coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities to coastal municipalities in Norway. Derogation is granted to masters. The background to the legislative amendment is that, in a reasoned opinion delivered on 2 April 2004, the ESA, which previously concluded that the Norwegian requirement of nationality and residence is contrary to the EEA Agreement, and the ESA asked the Norwegian authorities to comply with the opinion within the prescribed period. ESA took a decision in principle to bring Norway before the EFTA Court for infringement of the Treaty, unless Norway abolished the nationality requirement and the residence requirement. This, therefore, is the background to the amendment, which has been mentioned by the rapporteur. In our correspondence with ESA, Norway has in principle argued that fisheries policy and resource management fall outside the scope of the EEA Agreement. However, ship-borne employment would require a different assessment. While the rules of the EEA Agreement on the establishment and movement of capital provide for specific exemptions for the ownership and operation of Norwegian fishing vessels by non-residents, there is no corresponding specific derogation for employment. In order to help eliminate uncertainty as to whether Norway fulfils its obligations under the EEA Agreement on the free movement of workers and services, it was decided to draw up a legislative amendment proposing to remove the general requirement of Norwegian citizenship under the Fisheries Prohibition Act, while residence requirements were clarified to apply to residence in coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities of coastal municipalities. The legislative proposal has been widely consulted in the spring of 2006, and it has been important for the Government to find a solution within the current fisheries policy objectives that can meet ESA requirements. I think it is positive that the Committee refers to a broad consensus that the national marine resources should benefit the coastal population in Norway and that the Committee believes that the requirement for residence in coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities to coastal communities will meet that objective. The initial proposal presented in the proposal implies that masters who are not owners of fishing vessels must be resident in coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities of a coastal municipality. Provision is made for exemption for masters residing in the municipality of the country. At the invitation of the Economic and Social Committee, such as The representative of Korsberg has been involved, the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast, in writing, has presented various options for extending the scope of exemption for the Committee's own assessment. The reason for the wish to extend the freedom of exemption is partly to ensure that Norwegian masters live abroad and partly that it is difficult, in certain cases, to recruit qualified masters in Norway. The Committee’s selected recommendation is one of the options presented. An overall committee recommends extending the scope of the derogation to the EEA territory and that part of the Nordic region not covered by the EEA Agreement. In view of the reasons given by the Committee, the Government seems to be recommending the Committee to be appropriate. We note this as a new example that, although it is majority government, it is possible through constructive processes to find new and improved solutions in collaboration with the Stortinget. It delights the Government, and obviously also the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e368	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e384	It is a coherent nutrition committee that presents this setting to the law on units of measurement, measurement and normal time for the Storing. The bill is intended to replace the law of 31 October 1946 on objectives and weights. The legislative proposal is a significant modernisation of the law, focusing on ensuring metrological infrastructure that can be trusted both nationally and internationally and that is also better adapted to international agreements and technical requirements for measuring instruments. The Committee is pleased that the legislative proposal provides for flexible supervision for more than one competent authority, of course within the framework of clear responsibilities. A key premise of the new legislative proposal is that supervision should only be exercised if it involves a more efficient use of society’s resources or safeguards interests. This means that it is important that the Adjustervesen as a professional authority has the necessary competence and capacity to carry out assessments of appropriate supervision and control arrangements. The Committee has also noted that the legislative proposal requires substantial further work to be carried out on the preparation of regulations in order for the law to have the effect that the legislative proposal provides. On this basis, I would like to refer to the unanimous comments of the Committee expressing a certain scepticism for the widespread use of powers legislation. I will therefore refer again to the purpose paragraph of the bill, which emphasises the efficient use of the resources of society, and to the Ministry's assessment of the same paragraph. Finally, I would just like to stress the need for an extensive dialogue and contact with stakeholders in the drafting of the regulatory legislation in the further work that will result from the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e417	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e426	The Committee agrees unanimously with all the proposals for amendments to the marriage law promoted by the Government. In addition, the Progress Party has promoted a number of minority proposals, which I assume they themselves will explain. The proposals for amendments to the Marriage Act must be seen in the context of long-term work to combat forced marriage. The proposals that are being promoted are in many ways an emphasis on the importance of the need for all laws, including the marriage law, to cover all citizens of the country. The Committee notes that in Norway it is common to choose a spouse for yourself and that marriage takes place mainly on the basis of a love relationship. But in large parts of the world, arranged marriages are commonplace. A majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party, indicates that this must be accepted in Norway as long as it takes place under Norwegian legislation and international conventions. However, forced marriage is not permitted under our law and therefore cannot be accepted. The Committee therefore emphasises that marriage cannot be permitted or approved where physical or mental coercion has been used to get one or both parties to marry. Forced marriage is a clear violation of human rights, and the Norwegian society therefore has both a right and a duty to protect young people from coercion—man or woman, boy or girl. In this context, the Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal that a marriage concluded abroad, where a party or both are under 18 years of age, should not be valid if at least one of the parties is a Norwegian national or resident in Norway. Furthermore, an absolute limit of 16 years is set for when the county can grant a derogation. This is a confirmation of the age limit on which the Norwegian law provides for the approval of marriage. The Committee also agrees with the Ministry's proposal that marriages entered into by substitutes should not be recognised in Norway if one of the parties is a Norwegian national or resident in Norway. The Committee points out that under Norwegian law only one person can be married at a time. The Committee agrees that this principle is confirmed by the marriage law, which specifies that marriages made abroad, where a party or both are already married, shall not be recognised in Norway if one of the parties is a Norwegian national or resident in Norway. The Committee also endorses the legislative proposal which facilitates the dissolution of marriage by coercion, inter alia. by extending the option in Section 23 of the Marriage Act to have a direct divorce by judgment in force in general, even where persons other than the spouse have been compulsorily compulsorily involved. These changes to the marriage law underline something which should be of course, that in order for marriages entered into where at least one of the parties is a Norwegian national or resident in Norway to be recognised by the Norwegian authorities, it must comply with Norwegian marriage law. We do not solve the problems of coercion through what we adopt today. But this intensification of the law could be an important tool in this context. And above all, important values that we believe should be the basis for marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e454	In the last 20 years, the majority of the population, all but the Progress Party, have pursued a liberal policy towards immigrants with a view to integration. Until relatively recently, it has been almost exclusively stated by the majority that immigration into Norway will be an enrichment and would be almost problem-free. It has been said positively that ‘the rich community’, a concept that was gradually replaced by ‘the multicultural society’, is also a concept that was produced only positively. The problems and challenges raised by the Progress Party in the last 20 years are becoming increasingly apparent. The main reason for this is integration policy, which has been based on mutual alignment with each other in the relationship between North and Immigrants, instead of what the Progress Party has claimed, namely that immigrants need to adapt more unilaterally to Norwegian laws, regulations and norms. It is obvious that integration has not worked according to the intentions. It has been shown that large groups of immigrants have little interest in and willingness to be integrated into Norwegian society. More people who have lived in Norway for up to 30 years still have poor control of Norway. You doubt your own culture. In a liberal, democratic society, this must of course be allowed, but there will be a problem when aspects of this culture contain elements that are directly illegal or clearly opposed to Norwegian standards. We must be able to see that the gap between large groups of immigrants and Norwegian society over time is not being wiped out, but is being sharpened. This development is clearly unfortunate and could be the source of major future conflicts. Therefore, significant changes in integration policy must now be implemented. For the specific matter we are about to deal with today, the marriage law: the party of progress has for a long time called for concrete action in this field, and when one now tightens up towards bigami, coercion, marriage with persons under 18 years of age, etc., it is a step in the right direction. But we believe that the government does not go far enough. Other measures will also work much better. These have been proposed by the Progress Party on a number of occasions in this Chamber. Experience shows that what happens, often is that a youth aged 18-22, without a home and without income, lives at home with their parents, is married to a person, often close to relatives, such as cousins and cousins, from their home country, who then moves to Norway and gets to live with his in-laws. This is contrary to Norwegian standards, where those who marry can take care of themselves and get a home of their own before marriage. Therefore, such coercion can be severely limited by a change in legislation, so that family reunification is only granted if both spouses are over 24 years old, the Norwegian spouse can support the new married couple — without public benefits such as social assistance, etc. – and the Norwegian spouse has a sound owner-occupied dwelling. We also believe that a requirement for association with Norway can be introduced so that the marriage reunification can take place in the country where the overall relationship is greatest. There are also many arranged marriages and coercive marriages that happen to keep family ties and secure the big family by making marriages between cousins. Such coercion would be prevented if we were given a ban on the marriage of cousins and cousins. A significant health benefit has also been demonstrated in such a proposal, as demonstrated by the Progress Party in a Document No. Eight proposals that were dealt with in ours. The sum of the proposals referred to here will lead to the end of clean detentions and other forced marriages in the first place. So if you really want to do something for the young people who are exposed to this barbarism, you have a prescription. Otherwise, I notice that the majority say that coercion is negative, while arranged marriages are totally okay. We in the Progress Party do not share this view. The Progress Party believes that between arranged marriages and forced marriages is a moving, almost inconspicuous transition, and we are therefore very difficult to distinguish between the two forms. The Progress Party therefore considers that both forced marriage and so-called arranged marriage must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner in laws, regulations and rules. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party. At the same time, I would like to turn proposal No. 2, the proposal on the 24-year limit, for a transmission proposal. This is a matter that is out at the hearing, and we have also heard in the news today that the government has been informed by LO about what it is going to think about the matter, and there can be an interesting discussion between the LO and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e486	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e489	The proposal that exists here today is what can be called a good old-fashioned group work between two governments. This was a proposal that the Bondevik II government sent out to the hearing, and that the Stoltenberg II government delivered to the Stortinget. It is therefore also natural for both the old government parties and the new ones to agree on this. I think the case rapporteur presented the matter in a good way. She developed good principles, including: that if we're going to make such rules, there must be rules that apply to everyone, not rules that apply to their own ethnic groups. For the Left, it is also important that individual measures should be taken to combat this. This is primarily done by national measures and not by borders. Forced sex is combated in cultures, in environments and in the country where we are, not primarily at the border. That is why it is important to have a level of precision in proposals to combat this, which means that we are actually able to fight the problem and not criminalise groups. I would just like to make some comments on the proposals of the Progress Party. The proposals of the Progress Party are certainly effective, probably very effective, not to limit forced marriage, but to limit immigration. That is also the main reason for the proposals that they make. They also say to fight individuals, but they don't. The party of progress is talking about penitence, but what they're doing instead is making a "dyssey," i.e. marriage, where people are pushed out of the country. People are kept out of Norway until they reach the right age, until they belong to the right groups that the Progress Party wants. Therefore, I just have to say that the measures they put forward are good measures if you want to limit immigration, but not good measures if you want to limit forced marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e500	I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposals in Ot.prp. No 100 treated here tonight. I am pleased that the proposals that the Stortinget is dealing with today are important contributions to the fight against coercion. Forcing a young woman or man into a relationship he or she does not want to, is a great and serious offense. Few defend forcibleness in the public space, yet it happens. We must never accept cultural or religious reasons for this type of abuse. However, I am pleased that very many from different cultures and with different religious ties are now actively involved in the fight against forced marriage. We do not know enough about the extent of this practice in Norway today. That is why the Government has also launched a survey to give us a better basis to work from. This happens under the direction of the Centres for Women and Gender Research. The results of the survey will be available by the end of 2006 and will provide us with useful information in view of further work. Diverging between forced marriages and arranged marriages can be difficult. In the Norwegian debate, it has been important to draw a clear distinction between them — a distinction between what is clearly punishable and what is culture. What we see now, when we've actually learned more about forced marriage, is that we're operating with grey zones. In some cases of arranged marriage, there will be shifting transitions, as the social pressure may become so large that the apparently arranged marriage is actually perceived as coercion. The parents have a great responsibility here. As a society, we must emphatically state that marriage is to be voluntary in all the deportations of the word. It is a challenge to regulate arranged marriages in the marriage law, precisely because it cannot be established that arranged marriages are forced marriages. But it is imperative that society works against all forms of coercion, including social and cultural forms of coercion, even if physical power is not used to implement it. In Norway, we have been working for many years to combat coercion. In spite of this, we know that we're not in the goal. The Government has therefore submitted proposals for changes to the law, which further contribute to the prevention of forced marriage, including child marriage, and to assist the parties out of forced marriage. A main purpose of the proposals is to prevent persons residing in Norway from circumventing the requirements of the Marriage Act by travelling abroad and entering into the marriage there. Forced marriage, as the Committee points out, is a clear violation of human rights. The rapporteur was very thorough about the various proposals put forward by the Government. I see no reason to repeat what the rapporteur said, but I would like to say that I am very pleased that the committee supports the proposals, among others. shall help to assist one or both parties out of a marriage concluded by coercion by giving the parties the opportunity to obtain a direct divorce. I am no longer going into the proposals, as they are very thoroughly explained. I would also like to say to the Progress Party that we see that the party is taking advantage of the opportunity to also propose a number of measures against both coercion and sexual mutilation. I share the commitment of the Progress Party to these issues, although we may sometimes disagree on the solutions in these difficult areas. A few of the proposals proposed by the party now assess the government, and we will come back to these proposals once we have concluded. But I take the commitment that the Progress Party has had in this field, very seriously. We also focus on this at the end of our treatment cycle. Finally, I would like to say that the proposals we have put forward today will be one of many contributions to the fight against coercion. We look at different types of instruments, and we also come back with a new action plan on forced marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e522	I would like to thank the Council of State for the pleasant words. There are important provisions on marriage concluded by minors, on the use of proxy, on bigamy and on the countering of coercive marriages that are currently being adopted. The progress party has noticed these tightenings and is, of course, satisfied with them, but we have also noticed the exceptions that lie among other things. Section 1 and Section 18. It is mentioned that when «strong reasons» speak for it, exceptions should be granted under the law. Then the question is what practice you're going to put on, and here it's the Progress Party that's a little worried. I would ask the Council of State to specify the line she thinks these exemptions should be applied after whether she wants a liberal line or a more rigorous practice of the legislation adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e531	Now it's like the government's putting itself on a line that means clear intrusions in relation to countering coercion. With the provisions we adopt today, we are very clear to protect the children who experience this situation. How the practice of these exceptions, as we also put into the law now, will be, we have to get back to. But it's important that the changes we make are respected by our legal system, and that it must be on very special conditions that we go in and grant exemptions. I'm asking for an understanding that we have to come back to that. Our commitment is sincere when it comes to what is crucial here, that we protect children and young people from being subjected to these abuses that a forced marriage is actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e538	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 230]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e554	The Odelsting must then vote in cases 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e562	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e678	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e691	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e703	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e743	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e753	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e1256	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e1266	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e1274	During the debate, Ms Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, presented six proposals, the proposal No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e1451	It's going to be the title of the law and the promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e1461	The Law Decision is sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-lower.ana.ud703e1491	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - It hasn't happened.
