ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e24	Requests for medical leave have been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to Ms Inga Marte Thorkildsen from 15 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Lars Aegean, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e42	Lars Egeland is present and will take the seat. The representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e47	On behalf of Lars Sponheim, André N. Skkelstad, and myself, I would like to make suggestions on strengthening relatives' rights in situations where it is inconvenient to continue or terminate life-saving treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e52	Harald T. Nesvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e55	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to propose to the Government to submit a plan for the conversion of Norwegian elderly care so that the state is responsible for the money following the user, and to cover the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e60	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e63	On behalf of the representatives of big business, Åge Starheim, Ib Thomsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on language and knowledge requirements in relation to the granting of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e68	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e72	On behalf of the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to launch an exchange and cooperation programme between Muslim countries and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e77	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e80	I am delighted to present a proposal on behalf of Tord Lien, Torbjørn Andersen, Robert Eriksson, Øyvind Vaksdal, Harald T. Nesvik and myself on a plan of measures for the construction of gas power plants in Norway and state responsibility for the CO2 value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e88	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e112	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug Haga State Council Odd Eriksen State Council Øystein Djupedal The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Per-Kristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e127	My question goes to Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen, and the theme is active industrial policy and active and possible professional government ownership policy. In the election campaign, the theme was a repetition, and we were promised from all sides that an active industrial policy would lead to more industries and individual companies that were in trouble getting help, and we were told that the passive attitude towards state ownership would also be changed. Single representatives traveled country and beach around and promised to e.g. Hydro's plans would be twisted. Yes, one even went so far that a former State Council from the Workers' Party – not at all anymore, but now the representative Reidar Sandal – said that if Hydro did not do in Høyanger as the Workers' Party wanted, Hydro would no longer have concessions in the North Sea. I'd like to put a line over these statements. My question is about the Minister of Industry after four months can now say something more concrete: What new instruments are contained in an active industrial policy, and in what areas are the country's ownership policies to be applied? I would like to repeat the questions: in which areas are country ownership policies to be addressed, and what new instruments are available in business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e140	An active industrial policy is based primarily on government budget appropriations and a close and close dialogue with companies in which the State has interests. Over the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade for this year, we have increased the appropriations in relation to last year, by 70 million. kr. We have invested heavily in innovation, we have invested in research, and we have invested in funding for innovation, through the main tools we have, Innovation Norway and SIVA. Our influence over the companies in which the state has ownership goes through the selection of board representatives. We actively participate in the electoral work. Our governance signals to these companies will mainly go through the general meeting and through the boards we contribute to the appointment. Our state ownership, our commitment and our active industrial policy come, among other things. We reduced the yield from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani by 100 million. kr in relation to what was budgeted, in order to contribute to strengthening equity and to improve the company's ability to operate, following the fire in Svea. That's one example of our active ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e149	I thank you – and note that the Council of State has not presented a new instrument. Budgets have had all the governments. In fact, compared to the proposed budget for 2006, this government reduced the use of funds for research and innovation by 95 million. kr, i.e. a reduced ambition. If it is the only instrument, the only logical conclusion is that a less active industrial policy should be pursued. With regard to ownership policy, I heard that the example was about a company where there has been a fire. I guess it's hard to generalize, that's exactly the example -- I hope not. And then it remains to be given signals to the general meeting. But why do you have to replace board members, if the point is to give signals to the general meeting? And the signals must come from a government that knows what it wants. In one week, two state councils in the sitting government, of which at least one stands here, have given quite different signals as to what Telenor should do in relation to subsidiaries. How to allow the general meeting to deal with unclear signals is a mystery to me – and I record that it is also for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e160	The dialogue I have led with the business community of the Government has been unfavorably positive. Feedback from key business actors has also been positive during this period. It is quite natural for the controllers to be replaced from time to time. The replacements that will occur will be based on the maintenance of the owner's interest, combined with the maintenance of the company's overall interests. It is then important that we provide the company with the necessary skills to carry out the business well in the future. The competence needs of the board at all times need to be adapted to the reality and challenges facing it. On the basis of that, I do not overlook the fact that during the processes we are going to undergo during the spring, there will be replacements, but it will be based on caring for the interests of the owner and providing the boards with adequate and necessary competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e167	There will be follow-up questions – first Kåre Fostervold.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e170	Governments travel around the country and the beach and promise a new power regime for the industry. And it is important to put in place clear objectives and timeframes for delivering power at prices that are similar to the prices that many of the industry currently have through concessional power agreements – which are about to go out. What to me is a big question, is how the government is going to deal with this, when the country has a large deficit of energy and lacks transmission capacity in parts of the country, and it is a fact that all attempts at the expansion of our energy capacity are torpedoed by the Government. How will the Government ensure that the energy nation of Norway will once again be self-sufficient in energy, so that we can have the opportunity to offer our powerful industry more reasonable energy within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e177	The President would like to remind you that follow-up questions should be focused on the main issue. But it is of course up to the Council of State if he wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e181	The issues and challenges raised here lie to a very large extent within the sphere of the Minister of Oil and Energy. I would just like to say briefly that, as far as the industrial power regime is concerned, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is working actively to realise the needs that the previous magnification has also taken into account as they dealt with the matter last year. As regards the balance of power, the three concessions granted to gas power plants are solid, and they are actively working on it. The work on the gas power plant at Kårstø has also started.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e190	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e193	The main question is to challenge an active industrial policy. Many of us are curious about the content of the Minister of Industry's toolbox. In Stavanger Aftenblad Saturday we could read that the minister had been visiting Hydro Aluminium on Karmøy and promised a new industrial power regime – in line with what was asked in previous follow-up questions. This is positive new, because Stoltenberg I concluded that a new industrial power regime was not possible within the EEA Agreement. So now the flag is probably scratched both at Carmøy in Rogaland, at Husnes in Hordaland and other places. This is good news. But on the basis of Stavanger Aftenblad’s appointments, I’m a little excited and curious: What time can it take for a new industrial power regime to reach the Stortinget? And what are the main elements of the new industrial power regime promised by the Council of State during its visit to Karmøy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e200	As I said in the previous answer, there is one thing that is now being treated in the Oil and Energy Department. I have no clear answer today when we get that industrial power regime in place. I know that it's actively working on it. It must be established within the framework of the EEA Agreement. That is what is the starting point, and which we have laid out through our political platform designed on Soria Moria.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e205	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e208	‘Active enterprise policy’ was one of the great words used and a mantra for today’s government parties in the election campaign. Now perhaps the state council wasn't Eriksen among the most profiled then, but not least his two councillors at today's bench used this term many times in many contexts. Now we can start to do some summary. Most of us consider an active enterprise policy to be positive for businesses. What we've seen so far is that the government has defined an active enterprise policy by being very active in sending various, confusing and sometimes negative signals to Norwegian business. At the latest when the budget proposal was presented, even the Council of State of Eriksen had to admit directly on TV 2 that there were less tools in the toolbox and no more, as a consequence of the budget presented. Then it is natural to ask: is there now – after well over 100 days – any tool that the Council of State lacks? And has the Council of State acquired important knowledge of these a little over 100 days that he is now trying to accommodate his colleagues in the Government and in the majority fraction of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e217	As I also said in the first answer to the representative of Per-Christian Foss, the budget of the Ministry of Industry has increased by 70 million. kr in relation to the last year's budget. It's important to use the tools that you have at your disposal. Some of the most important tools we have put on the table are a further strengthening of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers of 165 million. and an active dialogue with the business community. The business community has also given very positive feedback on the way we communicate, and how we address the challenges posed by business. An example of an active business policy is also that we have bought up to 50 pst. in the company Nammo – from 45 p.m. – to maintain the environment of competence that exists on Raufoss and to maintain its head office function in Norway. In addition, we have the listed company Cermaq, where we contribute to the company getting capital and a long-term owner who will also bet in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e226	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e229	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. One of Norway’s main educational policy objectives is to be among the world’s leading knowledge nations. Yesterday, a Civita report entitled ‘Shall everyone try?’ was presented by Professor Kai A. Olsen, who believes that Norway is losing the international knowledge competition. He even believes that Norwegian students are the worst ever; the quality of Norwegian students has never been worse. He even says that some of the educational institutions are now reducing the character requirements in order to adapt to the poor skills of students. He says Norway is training tapers, and we're wondering students. This is a very serious political situation, and a high political focus is needed if we are to get out of this knowledge group. The solution outlined by Professor Olsen in the Civita report is that we must make stricter demands on the basic knowledge of each student. One of the proposals is that the average character of secondary education should be 3.5 in order to gain general study competence. In the Soria Moria statement we read that the sitting government will give all those who have completed an advanced course, general study competence. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: What is the Council of State and the Government know and understand, as Professor Olsen and very many others in the professional community do not understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e238	The report by Olsen is an interesting contribution to the debate on higher education. This is not a research-based report, but a view from a researcher. I think it is good that academic Norway goes out into public space and discusses both its own institution, Norwegian research and the future of Norwegian higher education, and not least how you want it to be arranged. In this way, this is an input that we're taking with us, while we're now evaluating the Quality Reform. I must also say that this report is perceived as a sharp criticism of my predecessor, as it is the quality reform that is being reviewed here. I haven't made it a great exercise to criticize my predecessors. That means I'm taking this as a recording, while now we're also evaluating the Quality Reform. The first interim report has come to my table, and there will be several interim reports on an ongoing basis. We will also present a communication to the European Council on the evaluation of the entire quality reform, as the European Parliament has also called for, precisely to give us a broad political debate on what basis we should have for our higher education. We have said in the Soria Moria statement, which the questioner pointed out quite correctly, that we want to open up people who have not chosen a race that gives study competence, to have the opportunity to get it. Here we build on extensive experience from two factors in particular, which have proved to be a major success in higher education in Norway. One is the real skills reform, which has now given many women who were former assistants in kindergartens, the opportunity to become pre-school teachers, and help nurses have had the opportunity to become nurses. So they've come into higher education because they've shown that they have quality. That's the whole key. You have to show that you have knowledge and quality to qualify for higher education. We have now launched a comprehensive investigation in cooperation with universities, universities, college councils and other competent bodies. It is interesting to see that broad sections of Norwegian higher education agree with the Government’s approach. We're just going to find a practical way to do this -- just like we did with the real skills reform, and just like we've done in Telemark, where you can get into an electro-engineering study with an electro-technical degree when you've proven yourself qualified. We ask young people to make choices early in life. That means that we also have to give young people the opportunity to make new choices, if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e249	This was a very interesting deepening of what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, because it says that all those with higher education will automatically acquire general study competence. I interpret the Council's response here so that it is highly modified, i.e. that there must be specific requirements in order for everyone to have general study competence, but it must be independent of the course of education. Does the Council of State consider, for example, that there should be separate admission tests or other types of qualifying measures for students who do not have general study competence but who have chosen a professional course of study? What, then, is the real difference between today's practice and the practice that the Council of State now expresses that it wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e255	It is possible that the Progress Party does not look this way on that issue, but it is clear that policy is process. Politics is processes in which you involve people around you to get input into making good and practical solutions to what you want as a political goal. Our political objective is to give young people who have chosen a professional course of study the opportunity to move on to a higher education course if they want it at a later stage. So it's true that one within today's system has the opportunity to do this by building up. But it is not certain that everyone has this opportunity, and it is well possible that even others, who are not within the educational cycle right now, want it. That means that what we're giving is a greater opportunity for young people to make new choices, but of course under a very explicit condition, namely that the quality should of course be maintained. Experience from the real skills reform is that we give thousands, especially adult women, the opportunity to enter higher education, to get an education, to make an important effort for society and itself. So we've enriched higher education. We have also enriched the individual's ability to make new choices. This is a continuation of what we are doing now, but we will of course do it in close cooperation with the professional communities concerned. They look at this with great interest, and it's a pleasure to see that they have a much more -- let's say -- dynamic approach to this than, for example, The representative of the Progress Party shall have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e264	There will be follow-up questions – first Ola T. Loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e267	It's a very interesting issue that's now coming up, and I think there's a reason to ask what are the overall objectives of the Government's education policy, because I think it's kind of cracking in several directions; you have to have studies on a lot of things – and that's all right. Now it's a sympathetic idea, of course, what the Soria Moria statement says, that everyone should have the opportunity to study. I think it sounds very good to have that opportunity. But I want to ask if the Council of State has thought about what it means for a youth to get on the wrong shelf in life, to somehow get into a study that you don't match at all. There are more than Kai A. Olsen who have raised restrictions of access. NTNU in Trondheim has also gone in to close all the study programmes, and I assume that it is in consultation with the Department and the Council of State. I don't get this all the way up in relation to the Soria Moria statement, which says everyone's going to get to it. So my question is, what is the overall goal of study policy, of education, and where does the Government really want with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e276	There is a long history in Norwegian and European education policies, based on two factors. One is width, and the other is vertex. This means that there is a long tradition in Norwegian education for people to have the opportunity to qualify for higher education, by having study competence. This means that many people who initially have poor grades from high school have come to study, and many do so very well, because they are motivated by the study. In addition, we have many points in Norwegian higher education — universities in particular, but also many higher education institutions — and there are many research environments that are also widely recognised internationally. This combination of width and point has been widely agreed on in Norwegian education policy. The previous government also had this as a premise. They also had open-ended studies, that young people were qualified initially when they had study competence. Then there are some demands that are made for very special studies. We have no plans to change that either. This approach makes sense for a country, because it means that you have the ability to use the intellectual capital of the country as best you can, giving people the opportunity. So there's a lot of people who can make choices that are wrong. It is a choice that each student has to make it easier for young people to make choices that are right. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e283	State Council Djupedal has a good ability to go beyond speaking time. It can give good grades in that particular subject, but it unfortunately gives moves in other subjects. Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e291	Yes, there is great concern about the quality of Norwegian school. There's a lot of signals coming from both college rectors and business, about it. Then maybe I'll arrest the state council a little bit. The quality reform was, as far as I know, initiated by Trond Giske, and it was a broad staging behind it. So the development in school is a result of a long-term development. But it's a little strange that the minister of knowledge is almost the only one to dedramatize and devalue the situation in school. Now I realized that in his answer he did a little retreat, saying that it was those who were qualified, who could go further. Why can the Minister of Knowledge not go further and clearly state what requirements are needed to have completed study competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e303	There is no need for general concern above the level of higher education in Norway. If it were, it would have been dramatic. Kai Olsen's input is a multi-line input. We are taking this seriously, and we are going to take this debate. That's why I'm also saying we're going to come back to Stortinget with it, because we're taking it seriously. But it is clear that if the situation had been so dramatic, and if we were to add to such an elitist educational policy as Olsen does, there would have been a break with the long lines of Norwegian education policy, which our government does not support. The processes related to how we're going to give people the opportunity to make new choices, we've started. We're not concluding, because these processes are real on our side. But we want to give young people who are qualified, new opportunities. If you have a diploma, it should be possible to go further if you want it, and if you are qualified for it. But these processes necessarily take some time, and that means that it's always been a prerequisite from our government that we do this in close cooperation with Education Norway. For an important part of our government is getting new processes and new transparency. That's what we're also doing in this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e312	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e315	I would first like to commend the Council of State for correcting the Soria Moria map in terms of general study competence, towards the terrain and reality and going into processes that lead to practical solutions. Then, just like the Council of State, I will choose to take the professor's report as a warning to take, for example. real science in earnest. In that context, I and the Left are concerned that we must have good enough teachers, who are highly focused, and who respect knowledge. I think it is absolutely essential that we have a fundamental teacher reform, where the focus of our teachers is on the subject and on the dissemination, and that we are also given the emphasis in all forms of continuing education that it is the subject and the dissemination that are crucial, and not very much else that we can often put into that type of programme. So my question is to the Council of State: when will he come back with proposals for a basic reform of general teacher training in Norway, so that it gives students what they are entitled to stand up and be good at a society where you are to be proud of subjects, and proud of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e322	Let me say that I very much agree with the approach Dørum has to the role of the teacher. The teacher is, in addition to the student, of course, the most important thing in school. It means having teachers who have authority but who are not authoritarian, having teachers who can impart knowledge, and who are knowledge-rich, is the most important thing. One of the most important things in our education system is that we have teachers who have skills. There have been many changes in teacher training over the year, changes that we are continuing. It's e.g. It's a pleasure to see now that the most important deepening science in teacher education is mathematics, and science is in third place. This means that we have the hope that the real science skills of Norwegian teachers will increase. But as the representative Dørum well knows, education is a long process. This means that what is initiated one year does not have any effect the following year; it can take many years. This means that we do not envisage major changes in teacher training as such — significant changes have been made — but we want to strengthen the focus on quality and knowledge in teacher training. Teachers shall be proud of their profession. They carry out an infinitely important task in our society, for our children and for society as a whole. I am pleased that Dørum supports the Government in that approach to the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e335	I also have a question for Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal. The care sector is characterised by relatively low formal levels of education. At the same time, for each year running, these services are getting more and more complex and professionally demanding tasks to be solved. Strengthening professional competence is therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, one of the most important strategies for ensuring the quality of service provision. The Christian People's Party has taken the initiative of a new age plan, focusing on the content and quality of care for the elderly. This has been well received by other parties, and also by the Government. But as I see it, it is a great paradox that the government, in addition to the 2006 state budget, made a total reduction in the grant to private colleges of 14.6 million. kr. The higher education institutions confirm that this has consequences for the activity. Among other things, Lovisenberg diaconal colleges are likely to have to cut their further education in the care of the elderly because of this. We believe that this is unfortunate in a situation where the care services are screaming for competent personnel. We could also read in Stavanger Aftenblad yesterday that municipalities need 80 000 care workers for the next four years. This is the calculated KS. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Care have confirmed that competence is an important field of action. My question is: What are the plans of the Council of State to provide adequate training places and skills staff for the care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e348	Let me first say that I think it's a good initiative The Christian People's Party has come with regard to the care of the elderly. The Prime Minister has also confirmed that this is something the Government is working on. It's a little surprising that this comes when you're in opposition, that you didn't do this when you were in position just a few months back. But leave it. We are totally dependent on having a public sector that has quality, both in care for the elderly, in kindergartens, in schools and whatever it may be. This means that upgrading the skills within our colleges to educate more is important. In this way, it is interesting to see that what the previous questioner asked about is an important part of this, namely the real competence reform. In particular, it allows adult women to continue their training in order to become nurses if you have been an assistant or a pre-school teacher if you have been an assistant, and is an important part of improving their skills in these sectors. We want to strengthen the number of places of study in these subjects. We strengthened them in the last budget, with 500 places in special teacher and pre-school education. Some institutions have experienced budgetary adjustment, which must be carried out in a demanding budgetary process. These institutions had no cut in the study places, but a small reduction in basic appropriations. This means that we have long-term plans to try to get enough qualified hands both in the care of the elderly, in the kindergarten sector and in the school sector. Obviously it's demanding, because we have great ambitions. But we have to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e359	It is in fact a reality that some of these colleges that have been cut are at risk of having to reduce the educational capacity of specialised personnel. Lovisenberg diaconic higher education was the first school to start nursing in Norway. It was also the first, as far as I know, to start further education in care for the elderly, in the age sentence and in palliation. In other words, from the very beginning, the school has taken great social responsibility for the emergence of the welfare state as we know it today. Now this is the school that is actually the hardest hit by the cuts of the government of Stoltenberg. Can we expect more cutbacks in the activities of non-profit institutions that have actually pioneered in the health and care sector? My question is also: Will the Government reverse these radical cuts in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e368	As a former state councillor – as Davøy has been – knows, no state councillor comes with leaks about what one intends to do in the future. Higher education is important to our government. Private higher education is an important complement to public education, and it educates a great many who we need in the welfare state, not least – as the questioner has to say – both nurses and other health professionals. That's what our government is concerned about, and we want to strengthen it. We're concerned that we're going to learn enough for this at all the institutions we have, both private and public. We're going to make long-term plans where we're going to be able to phase in as many new places of study as this is. We will have to come back to that in budgetary terms. However, we are aware that there is a need for a major boost in care for the elderly, in the school sector and in pre-school education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e375	There will be follow-up questions – first Ine Marie Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e378	I record that the world has moved a long way further, when SV's representatives start to refer to cuts as budget adjustments. But I'm now going to call it what it is. The first thing that hit us when we got the extra proposition from the government last autumn was two things in particular. One was a big cut in the research appropriations; the other was that they had obviously used the ‘advanced search’ function and entered ‘private’ plus ‘quality’, and then pressed ‘deleted’. 14.6 million. in private higher education institutions particularly affected by nursing training and teacher training. It actually went so far that the Council's own colleagues in the Church, Education and Research Committee had to save, among other things. The Rogaland College, which had been trained as a caregiver, and which would otherwise have been closed. My question to the Council of State is: When the Council of State now sees how things are going for the colleges affected by the cuts, does the Council of State regret that they were carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e387	Let me first correct the questioner at one point. Our government has adopted the most ambitious budget for research that some government has ever done – DKK 1.3 billion above what the previous government budget showed. That means that what was done about the Research Fund as such was a fine thing that any government is allowed to do after it knows it's going to go off. But we'll get back to this. I am pleased that the Right, now that they are in opposition, so strongly emphasizes the desire to invest in research, for all the budgets they provided, were not exactly marked by extensive investment in this important field. With regard to how we go further in relation to private higher education, it is clear that private higher education is an important part of our higher education. That means that we have these in the plans ahead, and that of course that's part of what we're going to get back to Stortinget. But I have to be allowed to correct the questioner on the following: It is the Storting that has made a decision on this. The government and the ministry propose to the Stortinget, which makes its decisions in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e394	I ask for the floor under the legislation, for a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e401	Mrs Solberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e404	It must be a manifest misunderstanding whose Council of State Djupedal believes that the Bondevik II government was not a government in Norway until 17 October. That government provided a budget that contained higher rates of research than the budget of the government that is now sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e409	Then is the next follow-up question – Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e413	I'm reacting to the state council characterizing 900 million. kr to the 2007 research as a ‘fine’ by the previous government. These are actual crowns in the government budget of the previous government. Now we are in a somewhat strange and regrettable situation, because the Council of State says that he will come back to the Storting with proposals on how to solve the capacity challenge in the education sector. We know that this government cut out the post-secondary appropriations, including the appropriations for the private vocational schools, which are an important educational group in relation to nurses and health professionals. Therefore, it may be timely to consult with the Council of State if it is not necessary to correct the errors made by the current government, already in the revised national budget, so that this training can be put back in place as quickly as possible and we do not get into a situation where, in the care sector, we have competence challenges in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e420	I just want to correct the questioner on the following: Making mistakes is one thing, and the fact that the representative may disagree with what the government is doing is another thing. We're doing what we think is right, and every government is free. Let me also correct the representative on the following: We have not done a cut in terms of private schools. What we have done is in relation to the capacity, where it was stipulated a sum of money to go to the private schools. It turned out that there was a need for fewer places, because fewer students started. That means that then a government does what any government does, that is, you go to the Storting and correct the sum. There have been no changes in the rules related to the appropriations for private schools from our government. It is true that we have presented a draft consultation on this, and we will come back to the Stortinget with a change in the law on early school education, but it does not itself change the rates of grants as such. It will be up to Stortinget to discuss this law, first the temporary law and later a permanent amendment of the law of free school from our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e427	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e430	A cut in a $25 billion research fund is a cut. My supplementary question goes to the Council of State Eriksen. The current government has great ambitions to provide labour for the public sector — teachers and nurses, as has been shown today. At the same time, there are reports that we lack people, and that it's cut off in education, so that we have a really precarious situation. But I take the government seriously: here it will ensure that many more come to the public sector. What are the thoughts of Eriksen, the Council of State, of ensuring access to the labour force of the private industry in this country? Because it's going well, it was left in a good constitution by the Bondevik II government, so it goes down – new business formations, and jobs are created. But you need free hands to fill these jobs. My wonder is how the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade will ensure that we have access to enough labour. I wonder if he doesn't need any extra thousand Poles to cope with this effort, when the government has as strong ambitions as it has, and puts the unemployed labour force that we have into the public sector. Instead of e.g. To bet on the quality of teachers you are much more concerned with ensuring the quantity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e439	It is an important challenge for the representative of Dørum to address. What is extremely important in relation to business is that we primarily provide training in relation to what is the future needs of industry for education. There is then an interaction between the public sector and industry in defining future needs. We have basically the labour force we have in this country. It is a challenge to ensure that the private sector has sufficient labour and labour capacity to meet the value creation potential and the value creation challenges that exist. This, of course, needs to be adapted to the public's need for labour, which must be filled by the skills needed at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e444	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e447	My question goes to the Council of State Eriksen. The state owns axes for about 560 billion kroner – more than 35 pst. of the values. In these companies there are also many private owners, and for the Left, it is important that these values are managed in a way that provides trust, long-termity and the best possible value creation. The state as owners and private shareholders must have confidence in each other and know that everyone has the same agenda. The agenda must be in the best interests of the company they own, in accordance with the objectives and strategies chosen. Central people from the government party have given a signal that creates very great uncertainty about the administration of the state's ownership. The owner of the Oslo Arbeidarparti, the depositor Jan Bøhler, wants the state to buy up in Norwegian Forest in order to be able to influence the government in a particular rental. And SV uses the ownership of Telenor to stop decisions on the sal of the Information. Others are called upon to select new members of the board of directors who will have a political agenda in these boards, perhaps across what seems to be the creation of value in the company. The Prime Minister, on his side, has said that it is not appropriate to govern companies where the state is a major shareholder. Will the State council, Odd Eriksen, now clear up the insecurity created, and state that AS, where the state has large holdings, shall also be governed by principle as a liability of a limited liability company?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e458	I can confirm that the limited liability companies in which the State is the owner shall be governed by the same laws as apply to other limited liability companies. This means that the State that owns — in the same way as private individuals — has a legitimate right to exercise its ownership. That ownership shall be exercised professionally, it shall be exercised in a long-term manner and shall be exercised in order to safeguard the interests of the owner and the business. The State does not have representatives on the board. We exercise our influence by appointing a board of directors through our participation in the electoral committee, and that is the overall competence and diversity of the board to be used in relation to the interests of the owner and the overall interests of the business. The state has per cent of the population. today no concrete plans to buy up in any company. I refer to a previous question: the state has bought itself up in Nammo, and we have sold ourselves into Cermaq. It will be situational whether the state changes its ownership of the different companies. I also do not intend to govern companies in individual decisions. It is tasks entrusted to the Management Board and to the Executive Board at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e465	I now interpret this as the Council of State says, that he determines that the listed companies in which the State is a co-owner shall be governed in accordance with the common company principle. I can then understand nothing more than that he places dead and powerless everything that Jan Bøhler and other central people in the government party have said about how to influence these companies in political terms. How will the Council of State now go out and publicly disclose this as has now been said, so that the uncertainty that has been created before is completely eliminated and people can feel confident that it will be governed on the basis of common principles, long-term objectives and strategies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e474	The state’s value of the shares on the stock exchange increased by DKK 100 billion from 17 October 2005 to 31 January 2006, from NOK 394 billion to NOK 494 billion. There is nothing in the market that suggests that the debate that has taken place on the country’s active ownership has negatively affected the development of its values. The State will, as I said earlier, exercise its ownership in a professional manner, while at the same time respecting the interests of the State as its owner, combined with the interests of its business and the development of its business. It is well important that government activities are also managed with a view to being profitable and predictable. It will be the state's way of governing and influencing the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e481	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e485	I record that the Council of State does not respond to the question asked by the previous questioner. As the previous questioner pointed out, there are still so-called directives coming from part of this government's independent parliamentary basis here in Stortinget, like the representatives of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and Jan Bøhler, who are very active in providing detailed control and signals to the governments of state-owned companies. Then the question is, who is it that is to be regarded as the majority of these companies? Is it the Council of State, or are the individual representatives here in Stortinget? And then the question is, can these state-owned companies now ignore the games that come from individual representatives of the government parties here in the Stortinge in terms of which lines to put on?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e492	As I said earlier, state ownership should be handled in a professional and predictable way, according to generally accepted governance principles, which the Storting has also been with and facilitated. And the provisions of the Share Act apply to companies in which the State holds a holding, as well as to companies in which the State does not hold a holding. It will always be up to the state and the state council that always has the constitutional responsibility for ownership, to exercise ownership in the way I've shown it. Companies in which the State holds holdings shall maintain high standards in a number of areas, in the environment, ethics and other areas that are important for the development of society in Norway. It will be my job in the companies in which I exercise ownership, to influence in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e501	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e504	The Haugesunds Avis today describes the so-called active industrial policy of state councils as ‘mist talk’. They write in the lead position: “We haven’t heard so much fog talk in a long time.” I think that is a very good characteristic, also of the behaviour of the Council of State here in the Chamber, where there is no answer to a single question. There has been a main element of the so-called active industrial policy to replace government representatives. The Council of State says that it is in order to protect the interests of the owner, and I assume that they believe the interests of the state, and not the interests of the LO. But I also assume that when there is so much emphasis on replacing board representatives, it is because you are not satisfied with today's board representatives, who are sitting there on behalf of the state. Then my question is, what is the Council of State dissatisfied with when it comes to those who represent the state of the companies where the state has interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e516	The replacement of directors of companies in which the State holds interests will normally take place. The previous government replaced representatives of the Governing Board on the occasion. This government will do exactly the same thing. But there's an overall assessment of what benefits companies and owners, which will be the basis for when and how it happens, and who is being replaced. I will not stand here today and tell who might be replaced, but I can guarantee that there will be shifts in the composition of the government during the period this government is sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e521	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e524	There was considerable uncertainty about the state’s role as owner, either as a large owner or as sole proprietor, and it is to a large extent easy to comment on vague problem settings. I want to bring this down to a concrete level, because the Council of State said in an answer earlier that the state will keep high standards when it comes to ethics. Then I have a specific question related to a state-owned company, Entra. There will be worrying messages about the sale of large property without a call. And then my specific question becomes: What has the Council of State done to ensure that this whole company operates within good business practices and within their laws and regulations as debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e531	I have noticed the claims that have come attached to Entra Eiendom AS. I have asked for an explanation from the chairman of the board of directors about the situation, and I am aware that the board of Entra Eiendom AS has engaged an independent actor who will go through the claims that have been made against the company. When this report is completed – and it will happen fairly quickly – I will assess whether there is a basis for further action. I am also aware that the National Audit Office has engaged in this matter, and I think that is very positive. That's what I feel I can say today about this situation related to Entra.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e540	We go to the next main question, from Hans Fredrik Kielland Asmyhr – Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e546	I thank the President for the quick baptism. I want to ask a question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. When the Stortinget dealt with the shipping message in the previous period, the Workers' Party was very offensive and wanted a lift for shipping. It was and is in agreement with the Progress Party. Shipping and Norway are so closely linked that it is almost impossible to imagine a Norway without this important and proud industry. When the shipping message was addressed, we were the third largest shipping nation in the world, and now surveys show that we are the sixth largest. A small willingness of the authorities to follow up the intentions of the shipping communication is some of the reasons for this, but also a strange tax on shipping companies and owners contributes to the country’s shipping companies finding it appropriate to move all or part of the country abroad. In the VG on Monday, shipowner John Fredriksen punishes Norwegian authorities for a lack of willingness to see how important the role of shipping is and has been to Norway. He pointed out that the authorities of other European countries are doing what they can to ensure that this attractive industry is located in the country, while Norway is very passive. Has the Government given up Norway as one of the world’s leading shipping nations, or will the Council of State in these OL times contribute to Norway again taking a clear pole position as a shipping nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e561	It's an ambition for the Government, as the Soria Moria statement also shows, that we're still going to be a significant maritime nation. The maritime sector is important in relation to the shipping industry, but also in relation to the supplier industry and other parts of the maritime sector. That is why it was also important for the Government to put in place the net pay system for seafarers in the budget, and it will come into force from 1 July this year. It was an element to put the framework in place for a future significant maritime sector. We also have an ambition to go in and look at schemes that take care of the renewal of the coastal cargo fleet, which has an absolute need for it. It is also the case that the Shipowners' Committee is now working to look at the tax agenda. They will present their statement on 1 March, and it will be handed over to the Ministry of Finance at the Minister of Finance. The Government, through the Soria Moria Declaration, has committed itself to following up the selection process, thereby facilitating shipping in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e571	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I understand that the council wants to be offensive, but there is little in his answer that points to it. We have to have clear ambitions to be one of the world's leading shipping nations, and here there's only one place on the pole that counts, and preferably gold. An increasing number of companies are notifying that they are considering moving their business out of the country. Younger in particular, who are to take over establishments, assess this. This has consequences not only for shipping companies but for the entire maritime cluster that is very important to Norway. Two of Norway's most successful businessmen, John Fredriksen and Kjell Inge Røkke, have built up their businesses in this cluster. This shows that Norway has great opportunities in shipping, shipping and related industries. Will the Council of State now sit down with the entire maritime cluster in order to lay down a battle plan for the implementation of an active industrial policy for maritime Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e580	My ambition is that Norway will continue to be a significant shipping nation. I've spent a lot of time traveling out and talking to the industry. I've been to More and talked to that maritime cluster there, been to Kristiansand and talked to the industry there, had meetings and good contacts with the Shipowners' Association, and also with single actors in the industry. The feedback is that they view this government as very offensive. This also indicates that we put in place the net pay scheme from 1 July this year. There is a significant investment, and only the increase in the state budget this year amounted to 165 million. SEK of a total appropriation of 1,225 billion. The fact that this government is not ambitious in relation to this, I strongly reject.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e585	There will be follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e588	Maritime policy is far more than wage subsidies to seafarers, and I think that the Government will have to move in soon. If maritime companies that are mobile and global are to remain in Norway, they must also have fiscal conditions that are competitive. It is not possible to stand for a 15 km long run with significantly worse paint mesh than the competitors. The situation is that Norwegian maritime companies are flagging out. We've gone from being the third largest to being the fifth, sixth largest maritime nation in the world. The main reason for this is the tax conditions, both in relation to the shipping tax system and in relation to the extraordinary property tax. The Council of State said in its reply that it would review the shipping tax system and follow up on the Schjelderup Committee in relation to what is coming in March. I think that's relatively vague. Does the Council not see that the tax conditions in Norway are obviously too weak for the shipping industry? And can the Council of State here and now confirm that we will have a competitive shipping tax system in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e597	It is important, regardless of industry, that there are framework conditions that make it competitive in relation to the industries to be competed with in a global perspective. This also applies to the shipping industry. But so it is that the government has now put in place the net pay system for seafarers, has received no positive reception in the industry, and the feedback is also that. It is also clear from the industry that there is an understanding that the Government has to deal with fiscal policy issues related to the follow-up to the position of the Shipowners Committee, which I said will be presented to the Minister of Finance on 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e604	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e607	This is a very important matter, and I am glad that the Council of State says that it will follow up on the selection's setting. In the VG on Monday, we could also read the shipowner John Fredriksen's reference to the Government, and that the Minister of Industry would consider the réarlag tax system. According to the Council of State, 1 March will be the setting-up of the Reiarlag tax committee. But I didn't really get what to do. Governments call the net payroll scheme, but it's a little on the side, so far. Travel tax schemes, tonnage taxes and a number of other things take the industry seriously. We know that some countries in our vicinity have a form of social contract in which fleet laws can almost conclude a contract with the authorities in order to have a stable framework. My question is concrete: can the Council of State reveal what he sees as the two-three most important means of sustaining a viable and forward-looking marine industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e614	It will be possible to list key actions. From the industry it is pointed out that it was important to put in place the net pay scheme. So the industry also says that it is important to put in place a tax regime that allows them to be competitive in relation to other countries. It is a matter that will be dealt with in the light of the position of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which will be presented to the Minister for Finance. I do not have the opportunity today to go into the details of a selection setting that has not yet been provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e619	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e622	I record that the Council of State travels a lot around the country. I think it is dangerous if he confuses the fact that he meets polite and formed people, that it is active support for the Government's industrial policy. Fortunately, we have formed and cozy people around the Norwegian business world, and it may be that they have read their accounts and not the government's industrial policy before they meet the government councils. When the Council of State delivers its speeches, especially in the rest of the world, we know that there is a standard that goes back from the Ministry of Economic Affairs – and that’s very good – and that’s that Norway has 1 per million of the world’s population, 1 pst. of world trade, but owns 10 pst. by the world fleet, and the councils are very proud. But it is not a state that should persist. The fact that there are Norwegian citizens who dare to take the risk and bet and own Norwegian fleet, we must fight all the time. There is only one tax that affects the willingness to be Norwegian owners, and that is the property tax. The government will increase the wealth tax, the previous government would step down and remove it. If the Council of State takes an isolated view of the wealth tax, and not of other matters for which it is possible to argue, does it agree that the property tax represents a threat to the great Norwegian ownership of the Norwegian fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e631	Taking into account the details of the tax challenge for industry, I do not feel appropriate all the time that the scope of the shipping tax scheme should be addressed at a later stage in the light of the setting up of the Shipyard Committee. I'm well aware of what the industry is expressing in relation to different elements of the tax system. When I'm out meeting the industry, this is important. I have great confidence that the industry is able to make that contribution and the recordings that they consider important beyond being polite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e639	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e642	My question goes to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. In answer to the question from the representative Dørum, the minister said that we have the labour force we have in this country. That was a very clarifying answer. The challenge is that the Kommune-Norway report that they need 20 000 new employees in the health and care sector each year. Total labour supply over the next 10 years is 15 000 per year. years. The imbalance with regard to public sector needs and the interests that the Council of State must clearly have as its task of representing internally in the Government, namely the relationship with the competitive industry, must be a challenge that one of the Government has discussed, and not least discussed so carefully that one has a clear view of how one will meet in the coming years. But based on the Council of State's response to the representative Dørum, it can almost seem as if this question came as a surprise. I would therefore like to repeat the question: what is the Government's plan to balance the need for labour between the public sector and the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e651	It is a challenge to meet the need for labour in the future. It shows all the projected figures in terms of population development. What is important, however, is that we ensure that we have access to the necessary labour force, including in the competitive sector. But it is obvious that there may be reason to look at the way in which access to labour is managed. I think it will be a challenge to look at the labour demand in Norway in isolation. We now have a common labour market through our links with the internal market and the EEA Agreement, but the different labour needs of the different industries must initially be addressed by the industry itself. That was what was in my initial answer in relation to the question. We have the population we have, we have to make sure that we optimise the use of labour and give the labour force the skills that are needed and that are demanded in the labour market. This applies in private business, export-oriented business, as well as in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e656	My next question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, because this is clearly a sign that the Government sees that there is a challenge here, but has not started work on any concrete instruments to meet that challenge. And when the Minister of Economic Affairs says that it will be up to the industry itself to compete with the municipal sector on the labour force, it suggests that perhaps the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has an idea of how the municipal sector should be able to carry out the services they are charged with in relation to the restrictions on labour supply as it is, and the measures the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has to limit the need for bureaucratic labour in the public sector, so that a user of the labour force in the public sector, to meet the users, to produce services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e661	There are major and important issues that are being addressed here, and the Government has an offensive approach to how we should manage to secure the labour we need in Norway, both in the private sector and in the public sector. There's a lot of work going on to ensure that people can stand longer in work, that we can create a working life that allows people to stay longer, to endure longer, and it's not least important in relation to the municipal sector and the care tasks, which are difficult, and where we definitely need people who stand longer. Unfortunately, we have too many people who are not part of the labour market, and making use of the residual working capacity that people have is a challenge; we are working on it. There are a number of measures we can take to ensure that the workstick we have can be used in a better way than is the case today. We are working systematically to reduce bureaucracy in the municipal sector, so that we get more hands to care for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e666	There will be follow-up questions – first Laila Bavøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e669	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. I note, and I am in fact deeply concerned that the Government does not have a plan to meet labour needs either in industry or in the health and care sector. At the same time, the allocations to private colleges that train skills personnel for which we have a screaming need are cut. My question to the Minister of Knowledge will be: When can we expect here in the Storting that there is a plan to address this need for skills in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e678	Of course, we are aware that many sectors in Norway need more labour, and we are working systematically on this. Both the public and private sectors need more hands. That means that what the municipal minister was up to, getting the labour force we have, to work longer, is an important part of this. It is one of the most important labour resources we have, and for which we are also working purposefully. We want to have more places of study within the higher education system and our universities that will contribute to new competent labour force. That means we're now working purposefully and offensively to be able to meet this. It has not been done overnight to make such a comprehensive plan, but it is clear that both further education and training are important elements in this. Then it's probably also important to stress that no one is necessarily a public employee of a whole life or a private employee of a whole life. There is some mobility in the labour market, fortunately, and that means that mobility is also linked to where there are pressure trends, because there is often an attractive way to work. This means that the labour market and education system are dynamic, and so will it at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e683	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e686	I will return to my question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The Minister of Industry and Trade said in his answer to my question earlier that we have the labour force we have. We fully agree on that. I think it's clearly documented through this round of spontaneous questions that we need more labour. We know that the Government has made it quite clear in different ways that we need more labour in the public sector. I expect then that the Council of State will agree that in order to get the labour force we need, we need to increase labour migration, especially from the new EU countries in the east – we need to welcome them. There is no other answer if we are to meet the needs of a business that is in a dynamic development, a positive development in which jobs are created, and at the same time the Government has as strong a priority as they have in relation to the public sector, and, I must add, when the Government has as little will as they have, to reform and streamline the public sector. We need to get more labour, so I hope that the Council of State will confirm that labour immigration from new EU countries in the east is warmly welcomed to Norway and that they are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e693	The fact that we have labour immigration in Norway is nothing new. We already have a considerable amount of labour immigration. What is important in this way is to facilitate the employment of those who come to Norway with employment and pay conditions that are in line with those we have in Norway. It's a challenge that the government is working on every day. This also applies to the measures referred to by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, to look at people's further employment and to ensure that the residual labour force is properly maintained. So efforts are being made in a number of areas to meet future labour needs, which in itself is a challenge, which the representative also pointed to quite correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e699	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e702	Norway is one of the countries in the world with the highest share of government in terms of gross domestic product and the highest share of public sector employment. It is a fact that these jobs, this consumption, are confiscating the economy and the labour force, which in turn reduces the return to value creation and therefore also less economic growth. It is a prerequisite for higher economic growth, for more labour to be allocated to the private sector and less to the public sector. The question goes to the Minister of Industry: does the Council of State see this issue and will he contribute to reducing the size of the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e709	To believe that the public sector does not contribute significantly to welfare development in this country must be a wrong track to follow. The people who work in the public sector do a significant and important job every day for our welfare level and that year after year we are assigned to the world's best country to live in. It is also the case that public sector employees work in schools, they contribute to our children getting the training necessary to meet tomorrow's working life, and they participate in the care and care of the sick and the elderly. It is an important work that is also carried out in the public sector. So making the public sector as a disadvantage for welfare development and the private sector in Norway, I take a long distance from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e718	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e724	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible. Question 8, from the representative Petter Løvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be raised by the representative Ivar Kristiansen. Question 14, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 25, from the representative Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 26 and 27, from the representatives of Laila Davøy and Sonja Irene Sjøli respectively to the Minister for Health and Care, are postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease. Question 28, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has a disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e745	My question goes to Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen: ‘The Minister of Finance has stated on several occasions that there should be a balance between private and public sector growth. However, all economic theory and practice suggests that one of the objectives of private sector growth is that it can reduce the need for growth in the public sector. This is because several are made independent of public welfare services or transfers. Does the Council of State see these links, or does it feel that there is no link between increasing private welfare and reducing public welfare needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e754	The welfare systems and the provision of services in the public sector are very important to most of us. The public sector produces many common resources, which we can hardly imagine financed by the private sector, for example. both the police, the judiciary and the defence. In Norway, we have also chosen to give the public sector a primary responsibility for many of the important services for each of us. It is, of course, a political choice that we do most of the tasks in education provision, health services and a significant part of the care of the old and nurturing public sector. In addition, transfers to the private sector include: maternity, unemployment benefits, sickness, old age, etc. There is an expenditure item in the budget, but that is private consumption. The experience of Western Europe in the last decade provides little support for private sector growth reducing the demand for growth in the public sector. On the contrary, European welfare countries grew in parallel with strong growth in private wealth. Increased private wealth is likely to continue to be expected to increase the size and quality of public services as well. Ageing of the population will increase the need for health and care services in the future. Pension expenditure will also increase strongly, even with a pension reform along the lines to which the majority of the Grand Duchy has joined. In addition, the general growth of wealth may not be enough to prevent groups with poor economies or other special problems from requiring additional support. It is a goal that the least possible should be provided with public social benefits as the main source of living. At the same time, it is an important objective of this government that those in need should receive the necessary support and that the whole population should benefit from good public services in the areas where a public organisation has been chosen. The government wants to continue public responsibility in education, health and many other important areas of society. In order to develop this offer in line with the expectations of the population and to combat poverty, there needs to be a good balance between the growth of the private sector and the growth of the public sector. For this government it is very important to have a high level of ambition for how to develop the Nordic welfare model, where we have chosen to solve many tasks through universal schemes that reach all, and not just a minority that may fall outside what is private wealth. Therefore, it is important that we have a balanced development of growth in the private and public sectors. The public sector is, of course, the one who has become the follower, and that is why many have understood the standard of what we should jointly solve, namely education and care, which is worse than what we are used to gradually in private.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e771	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But it actually raises far more questions than it answers, because the Council of State lists a whole series of public measures as a long list of panacea that the Government wants to continue. I don't want to give the Council too long thinking time, and therefore I want to ask the opposite question right away: if there is a reduction in growth in the private sector, will it lead to a decrease in growth in the public sector, just as the logic the Council of State used in its first answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e778	It's a little bit of a question of what is the background for reduced growth in the private sector. But let me explain how I think this is closely related. We've had a strong growth in private consumption in recent years. For many, it means that they have better private finances to travel on vacations, buy PC equipment for their kids, TVs, DVDs and whatever it might be. Private wealth stands in contrast to what is perceived as a poorer standard — let's say — of public education. Therefore, it becomes too easy to imagine that when private consumption increases, it becomes a substitute for public consumption, because this actually has to be paced. So, of course, increasing growth in the Norwegian economy and increasing growth in private consumption mean that more people are coming to work. Then there will be a part that goes from maintaining public budgets to being able to earn its income, and that can lead to a decrease in public expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e787	There's some double communication out there and going here. What we know about the Norwegian public sector is that it is one of the largest in the world. And there are many good tasks to be solved in the public sector; there is little doubt about it. However, the problem in Norway and in many other welfare societies is that the public sector is increasing almost uncontrollably and independently of the access to capital created in the private sector. That's the challenge. Now the Council of State has said twice that it is difficult to imagine concrete things in the private sector that make it possible to have less growth in the public sector, with the exception she said at the end. Finally, my question is whether there is a single time when the public sector can be reduced, and whether the Government has ambitions to reduce the public sector and increase the well-being of the private sector, so that less people are dependent on public transfers, and so that more people can create their own well-being. A great deal of well-being is actually created in the private sector, and not through the public sector, as the Council of State has so far suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e800	I am very dissenting and quite surprised at the approach of the Progress Party representative to this. Firstly, this government has a very clear political direction in what kind of priorities we want. We have said that we want to take care of the best in the Nordic welfare model, namely that we do the most important tasks, whether in terms of welfare or education, in public terms through tax financing. It has proved to be a fair policy, but also a very good industrial policy, and it turns out that the Nordic countries have a higher productivity growth than most other countries. So we can handle a cheeky egg in this area. I am surprised if there are now new signals from the Progress Party that the public commitments regarding care services or healthcare are now going down sharply and that it is a huge privatisation they see in this area. Of course, when it comes to private transfers, if many of those who are now rehabilitating, disembarking, rehabilitation or unemployed have the opportunity to get a job, and unemployment falls, transfers over the state budget could be reduced. But the level of ambition of public consumption is fixed. We have more than doubled growth so far in 2006, and it is a wild and wanted policy on the part of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e817	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: «Thunder thousands of Norwegians seem to have paid too much in the document fee for the purchase of property, because they have paid the document fee also for the value on fixed land. In particular, after the redemption of fasteners became possible, many will find that they pay ‘double’ for the fixed land. What will the Council of State do to bring the calculation of taxes into the future of the law, and what will she do in relation to the excessive document fee levied by the State by a large number of property buyers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e826	Document fees shall be paid for the lodging of documents which transfer permission to real estate, including building on a non-residential basis. Transfer of rights of use to property, inter alia: rights to fasten, are initially not subject to a document fee. Therefore, in the case of the purchase of a building with the associated rights to land, only the sale value of the building in accordance with the agreement of the parties is subject to a document fee, unless this is clearly set too low. Following the inclusion of the new redemption rules in the Landfill Act in 2004, all those who wish to acquire the ownership of a land for which they have previously been entitled must pay the document fee in the event of the settlement of this transfer of property, as the respondent describes. This is where the reference to the ‘double’ document fee comes in. However, it is wrong to talk about a double charge in this case, because the transfer of ownership of the building and the ownership of the land both formally and effectively are two separate relationships. The transfer of buildings on fixed land has developed in such a way that the document fee has been paid by the total purchase price for the ownership of the building and the right to land. In this context, the registry administrator has a limited obligation to investigate. It is the value specified in the document that is to be taken into account for the calculation of charges, and it is here that the liability of the taxable person to provide the correct basis of charge is included. In administrative practice, it is considered that no deduction is to be made from the sales value of the added value such as: is due to an attractive location. In such cases, it has been assumed that the added value it represents forms an integral part of the value of the building. The background seems to have taken into account the real similarity of the charge. The parties have in the past had a very long-term perspective, and it has really been of little importance to have been faced with a building on a fixed or unattached land, in real estate or real estate, when you have compared the value of the sale. As a result, practice has ensured a neutral and equal tax treatment, the choice of which has not been affected by the charge itself. However, if new information shows that the document fee is nevertheless calculated on an incorrect basis or with an incorrect amount, each person may contact the registry administrator with a request for a refund. The Customs and Charges Directorate is the Board of Appeal. In the light of the new redemption rules for fasteners and changed practices for fasteners, I will assess the need for any clarifications in the document fee legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e846	I thank you for the answer, especially for the last part, where the Minister of Finance is clearly aware that there is a need for clarification, because if you read the law, you get a different opinion from what has been practice. Now the Minister of Finance has been aware today that it is the practice with which these matters have been handled, which will also apply in the future, which is not really seen by the law. Does the Minister of Finance want to go out and be ready for this relatively soon, so that home buyers and home vendors know what they have to do with it? Through, inter alia: For example, it is not clear whether or not a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not a newspaper lookup of a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not a newspaper lookup of a newspaper lookup is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not a That's not what's right. The Minister of Finance has now himself confirmed that it is the total value of the chain that is crucial and that it is the practice that has been to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e853	It is the way things are disclosed that is a sum of sales, and the document fee is calculated from the sum of sales agreed between the purchaser and the seller. But what makes this issue slightly different from what it has been is the changes for land retention introduced in 2004. There have been many people who are sitting on a fixed floor, aware that they have had a fixation that they might now receive a significant fee. Thus – unlike in the past – there may be a significant difference in the value of a dwelling situated on a fixed site and a dwelling on an owned land. This raises a problem that is derived from changes in the law in one area. That's the background for me just to answer as I do: I'll look into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e858	But the ambiguity between the practice that has been, and what has been in the law on document fees, has been there all along, even before this has arisen with the redemption of party bills. And my question is whether the Minister of Finance will do something quickly to assure home buyers and home vendors that this practice can continue, and that it has been right. My statement is confirmed by the fact that the state's own representatives in this case have stated that it is the brokers who have done the wrong thing. They should have subtracted the value of the fasteners. But they haven't, because in their business, of course, it's an advantage that the amount is the highest possible. I believe that this clarification needs both buyers and sellers and those who are intermediaries in this industry. They need a quick clarification that the practices that have been applied are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e865	But I think we're facing a slightly different problem, because I think the awareness of the value of a dwelling at a feast place and the value of a home at a self-ownership place is different -- it's now much clearer to most, both home buyers and home sellers. So I expect that in future cases this will apply to the market price to a much greater extent than in the past, that is, the value of sales and the amount of property in question. Then this issue that has historically been there, which the questioner describes, will be different. But I'll take a closer look at this. I believe that what is important after the changes that have now been made in the case of the party institute is that those who buy a house on a fixed site are aware that they can get a significant fixation fee on the site, and that it must be included in assessing the market price of the dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e874	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e877	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: ‘In what way has the Government intended to involve Stortinget in further efforts to reintroduce a differentiated employer’s fee in more parts of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e884	I am very happy to have this question, because it is a major and important part of Norwegian regional and district policy that we can maintain a system of differentiated employer fees. It has been a very effective and unbureaucratic district policy instrument. What we now know is that the revised EU and EEA regional aid legislation in force from 2007 opens up aid in the form of such a scheme. The Government intends to notify a new system of regionally differentiated employer charges to the EFTA Supervisory Authority, ESA, during April of that year. I believe that the legislation must provide a basis for a regionally differentiated employer's fee scheme that could include North Norway, parts of the Nord-Trøndelag and parts of South Norway. But the government is doing an intense effort here to put in place a system that takes the most possible starting point from what is happening in Norway, and that ensures, as far as possible, the future district policy. The Ministry of Finance has the overall technical responsibility for this scheme and for the notification. The matter also concerns matters covered by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a special responsibility for the geographical demarcation, while the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has a general responsibility for coordination in such processes. The departments concerned are now working together to find out how to design the new scheme. A statement of the case is planned in the EEA Committee prior to the notification. I expect both the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and I to meet there. The final proposal for a tax with a new differentiation, I intend to submit to the Stortinget in connection with the State budget for 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e897	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad that you have a plan to involve the Storting in this work, because even if you have a majority government, it will be important that this is a work that is broadly anchored in the Storting. This is, of course, an objective of reintroducing a differentiated employer’s fee in the largest possible part of the area that had it before, and it is both the previous and the current government’s common objective. However, I would like to ask the Council of State in the follow-up question whether they are also working with thoughts on how they might compensate for the areas that might not be reintroduced differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e906	We're really focusing on two stages. The first one, which the questioner is concerned about, and which the Government is very concerned about, is to reintroduce a differentiated employer's fee in terms of areas as well as in terms of rates. It's both of these issues that this is about, and that are close to the arrangement we had before. It's the work that's now going on under pressure. Then, of course, we also distinguish in what ways we can get into other types of support schemes, which do not conflict with any legislation. I have to say that the main focus for us now is to get a differentiated employer's fee graduated as far as possible in line with the rates we had, and as far as possible with the geographical area that used to apply. It is this system that we now believe will be the most effective and targeted district policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e913	I thank you again for the answer, and I fully agree with the priority of what is most important. Nevertheless, one also gets the impression that part of the compensation schemes and the way in which the compensation schemes have been given to the different areas of activity is interesting to see in relation to the result by the fact that the compensation schemes are often given directly to and managed by the local business community in which they apply. I hope that we will meet our primary requirements, but regardless of that, and in relation to the use of instruments in district policy, it will be interesting to gain systematic experience in the way that you have compensated for the results that this has achieved for industry locally. Will the Government carry out a systematic review of the functioning of the compensation schemes, in order to make further use of any experience in business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e920	I take this wish with me to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, because she is responsible for the evaluation of the arrangements that exist today, for assessing the arrangements for them and for finding, of course, a system that will work well overall in terms of differentiated employer fees and other measures, in cooperation with the entire Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e929	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘In November 2004, the Bondevik II Government granted a concession for civil aviation from the Rygge Military Main Aviation Station. Since then, the parties have worked continuously on the basis of the contract and repeatedly reached agreement. Now 14 months later, there is still no final solution because the department is still coming up with new objections and comments. When will the Council of State cut through and indicate that she is the head of her own department?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e938	Initially, I would like to stress that the Government is in favour of the establishment of a civil airport at Rygge. It is also confirmed by the approval of the cooperation agreement on 6 January of this year. At the same time, it is the first time that the Ministry of Defence and the Defence enter into such an agreement, which opens up significant civil aviation traffic at an aerodrome where the concession is held by the Defence. There is therefore a need for a comprehensive review of the legal, economic and operational aspects of the agreements. A prerequisite for the approval of the works of agreement is that this is within the scope of the concession to build, operate and hold a civil airport named Moss airport, Rygge, which was granted by the State Council of 19 November 2004. The contract entity shall discharge the air defence management responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the airport within the limits of the concession conditions in force at all times. The Ministry of Defence believes that the Air Force and Defence Agency have done a thorough job in this matter. However, in order to ensure sound management of the ministry, it is absolutely necessary that the final quality assurance and review of those who have drawn up the draft contracts before the final decision can be taken are carried out. The contract work consists of an overall cooperation agreement, an investment agreement, a firm agreement and a project agreement. In addition, the parties will in future negotiate a subsidiary operating agreement. The work on this operating contract is expected to be completed, as previously announced, in mid-2006. A quality-guaranteed draft cooperation agreement was drawn up on 20 December and was signed on 6 January. The further quality assurance drafts of the three agreements, the investment agreement, the fastening agreement and the project agreement were received by the Ministry on 1 February. I expect these to be approved within a short time. It is important to clarify that a factor for the success of Moss Airport, Back, is a solid and well-managed agreement that must take into account all relevant conditions in a long-term, comprehensive and sustainable perspective. This will be the best way to avoid ambiguities and problems later on. So the time that has been spent in order to achieve the existing agreement will hopefully provide the necessary basis for an important and long-term infrastructure action in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e959	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My question was in no way cynical, but I have to admit that in the last few months I have been seriously in doubt about who it is that actually decides in the Ministry of Defence. It is now 14 months since the concession was granted by the previous government, and half a year since a negotiated agreement basis was sent to the ministry for approval. The Ministry of Defence's constant training and withdrawal of the case are frustrating, and can help undermine the plans for the realisation of a civil airport offer in Eastfold. The ministry's proceedings are now more and more similar to a farce. In his written reply to me on 12 December last year, the Council of State writes: ‘It is a clear objective that the notified body of agreement with any changes and assumptions shall be completed by FD before Christmas.’;» Then it was stated that it would happen by the end of January. After meeting with the Council of State, the representative Signe Øye told the press in Eastfold that everything should be in place by the end of February, and now the Council of State says that it will be approved within a short time. Can the Council of State of the Grand Duchy confirm this promise, as expressed by the representative Signe Eye, that everything will be in place by the end of February?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e975	When I joined on 17 October 2005, we got a draft agreement in the ministry. This was later sent out on a round to get clarity on some questions. On December 20, we got the agreement to the department. We were unable to process it before Christmas, but on 6 January this year it was signed. That was the cooperation agreement. We are now working on three agreements, which we received in the department on 1 February, and by the end of this month we have said that these three agreements should be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e982	I thank you for the clear answer the Council of State now gave, and she confirmed that by the end of February everything will be in place. I have a question at the end, and it goes on the following: I am familiar with the fact that, in a letter dated 10 February, I have asked for a quick meeting with the Council of State, as soon as possible in the meaning during this week. Will the Council meet this request from Rygge Civile Airport AS?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e989	I'm always open to having meetings with those who ask to have meetings with me. I understand that this is a negotiation of a final agreement. I think it would be natural to have a meeting with Rygge Civil Airport when the agreement is concluded. Then I'll be happy to meet you.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e998	I ask a question to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Norway concluded a gas agreement with Poland in 2001 and for the first time Norwegian gas was to be delivered in its own pipeline to the Baltic Sea region. With this agreement, Poland would ensure its energy supply through the future use of environmentally friendly natural gas. This would also be an important step towards the landing of gas for use in the East and could mean a great deal to Norwegian industry. Poland later withdrew from the agreement. Does the Council of State now consider it appropriate to resume negotiations with Poland in view of a gas agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1007	There has been renewed interest from the Polish side in the purchase of Norwegian gas. In mid-January, State Secretary Anita Useth of the Ministry of Oil and Energy met with State Secretary Piotr Naimski of the Polish Ministry of Economic Affairs. The meeting was prepared at Polish request. Poland is considering spreading its gas supplies across several sources, and this includes looking at the possibility of purchasing gas from Norway. In this context, it is important to stress first and foremost that the companies on the base are themselves responsible for the sale of their oil and gas products. This was also emphasised by Useth in the meeting with the Poles. In addition, she invited the Poles to contact Gassco regarding the ongoing studies on the possibility of gas from Kårstø to the East and Sweden. Ms. Useth stated that Norwegian authorities would like to provide information and organisation in connection with the discussion of the Poles with Norwegian actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1014	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I am pleased that the Council of State sees the importance of gas to Poland, which can also give positive repercussions in terms of jobs both in Grenland and in Eastfold – we can say in the whole of South-East Norway. A gas pipeline could replace emissions from coal-fired power stations in Poland and also replace heavy oil from industry in Norway. With the assumption of CO2 management, this will have positive ring-effects – perhaps absolutely necessary – for the environment, when we look at the serious forecasts that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has made known to us in relation to the emissions we face from greenhouse gases. I understand that a cooperation initiative has been taken on the part of Poland. How does the Council of State view this cooperation in relation to progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1026	The initiative lies primarily with Poland. They have made contact with the ministry themselves. This shows increased interest on the part of Poland in relation to the purchase of Norwegian gas. Of course, it would be beneficial for them to contact the companies on the Norwegian base as early as possible, not least in relation to the assessments now made regarding the transfer of gas pipes from Kårstø to Grenland and possibly to Sweden. Of course, a Polish initiative in this regard could have an impact. I cannot say anything but that I am actually attending a Polish initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1033	I thank you for the answer – an answer that gives hope for the environment, but also for an opportunity to get a gas pipeline to Grenland and south-east Norway. Now it's like Gassco in an interim report 2 and 18 companies from the market have said that it's interesting to increase the use of gas. It's important, as the Council of State also says, that these two processes are seen in context. From our point of view, I would like to stress that Gassco's partial investigation 2 must be seen in the context of the initiative that Poland has now taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1038	I'm going to end up with that. Then it remains to be seen whether the meeting between Secretary of State Naimski and my Secretary of State Anita Utsuth is being followed up from the Polish side so quickly that it is possible to allow it to become part of the investigations currently in progress. I have no reason to expect that it will not be, because the interest they are now showing is significant – otherwise an interest that we see from several European countries in purchasing more Norwegian gas. Of course, it is positive for Norway as a large energy nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1050	«In the treatment of St.meld. No 47 in 2005 there was a broad consensus in the Stortinget on the establishment of a Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates for increased production of renewable electricity from 1 January 2007. [[2003-2004]] Following the meeting of the Council of State with its Swedish colleague on 16 January 2006, it became known that the Government does not wish to introduce a green certificate market in Norway from 1 January 2007. What is the reason why the Government will not now have a single Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates from 1 January 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1057	It is true that I had a meeting with the Swedish Minister for Civil Building Mona Sahlin on 16 January, which included: the establishment of a Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market was a topic. She told me that the Swedish government is aiming to promote a proposition on an extended electrical certification system during March. The Norwegian position in the case needs to be clarified in relation to this proposition. I informed them that on the Norwegian side we depended on spending some more time to take a final decision on the matter. We are now in conversation with the Swedish authorities, which means that we are working on the matter. I would like to stress that renewable energy is a high priority area on the part of the Government, and that we regard it as a particularly important part of energy policy. The Government assesses several different measures and will present proposals that can be used in an increased commitment to new renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1066	That's the question, I'm sure. But what was the answer? Is the Government standing by the decision to roll-out from 1 January 2007, or does the Government not? Does it seem that there is a predictable policy towards power builders first in the Storting before the elections to express a yes to the green electricity certificate market and after the elections to say no? Now you say you look at the matter. What is the Government's plan of progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1071	The answer is: Yes, a Norwegian-Swedish market will be desirable provided that we get to a market that is balanced for Norwegian and Swedish consumers. We are therefore now in quite intense dialogue with our Swedish colleagues, with a view to trying to find a solution. If it succeeds, it will be presented in a reasonably short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1076	I try a third time: what is the Government's plan of progress? The Swedes have put their progress plan on the table, the proposition in March. The Swedish plan also includes so-called small power plants, i.e. power plants with installed power beyond 1 MWh, where there is a high potential for environmentally friendly hydropower generation in Norway as well. So my question is now two-fold: will the government present its proposition in parallel with the Swedish, i.e. in ours, so that the Storting can deal with it? And will it also include small power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1081	If it is possible to establish a Norwegian-Swedish market, if it is possible to achieve a balanced approach that takes care of Norwegian consumers in a reasonable way, it is in the nature of the matter that a scheme by the Government must be presented somewhat in parallel with a scheme by the Swedish Government. It's a prerequisite for getting to a market from about the same time. As I said, we work on the basis that it still has to be possible. What will become the content of this arrangement, we will come back and present when and if we possibly succeed in what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1092	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy, which reads as follows: ‘2005 was the most rainy year of 15 years in Norway. Norwegian power plants were added 35 TWh more than normal. Despite very good magazine filling, the power price has increased alarmingly in recent years. Norwegian consumers and the business community are charged for increased power prices, while owners, mainly the state and municipalities, are getting a significant increase in profits. What kind of focus does the Government really have on increasing power prices, and what does the Government think it needs to do to dampen the rises in electricity prices in the long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1101	Norway is part of a Nordic power market, where power prices are determined by it at all times the current supply and demand for power. The evolution of electricity prices in the Nordic market depends on a number of factors. Of course, the amount of rainfall in Norway and Sweden is important. These developments are linked to significant uncertainties. The situation in 2005 was very good in Norway, as the representative Andersen points out. However, it is such that the Nordic power market is linked to the continent through electricity transmission connections. The development of electricity prices in the Nordic market is therefore affected by the price of power in a significantly larger area than in the Nordic region. The evolution of power prices on the continent again depends on a number of factors to which considerable uncertainty is attached. Key factors here are the price evolution of coal, gas and not least the evolution of the emission prices of CO2. Temperature and weather conditions affect demand in the Nordic countries and Europe and also contribute to the impact of short-term power prices. In particular, periods of cold and high consumption could lead to an increase in electricity prices. During these periods, reserve power that has high production costs to cover consumption must be used – as a general description. Energy prices in Norway have remained fairly stable from mid-2003 until the end of 2005. In the last six months of 2005, the spot price at Nord Pool Spot ranged between 18 and 28 øre/kWh. The average price in 2005 was 23.4 ø/kWh. We have to go back to 2002 to find a lower average price than this. Electricity prices to Norwegian households also show the same trend. In the first five weeks of this year, however, we have seen a price rise. During this period, the highest consumption measured for a single week in the Nordic region was also recorded. The extent of the impact of changes in the electricity price on individual consumers also depends to a large extent on the contracts chosen by consumers. Consumers may choose between fixed-price contracts and contracts which are more closely linked to market price developments. The majority of Norwegian households today have contracts that follow the development of market prices. The main objective of energy policy is to facilitate a secure and efficient supply of energy, with acceptable prices for households and industry. Secure access to energy is important, both for people most in everyday life, for value creation and for jobs. The government will facilitate secure energy access through active investment both in energy saving measures, new transmission lines and new production. The detailed design of this effort will be central to my work as Minister of Oil and Energy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1119	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was nothing new in it – it was almost a blueprint of what the Council of State had previously answered a written question from another Progress Party representative. I just want to add that Norway is in a special class at that 99 pst. of our power consumption comes from hydropower, and by being – I kept saying – very generous in the blessing of the weather gods in terms of power supply and security of supply in Norway. So the government council mentions that, among other things, is working on new transmission lines, and it could be interesting to ask the Council of State straight out: Does the Council of State and the Government feel that it is better to invest in electricity imports than to increase domestic Norwegian electricity production?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1133	The answer to that question is no. The government's goal is that in a normal rainfall situation, we should be self-sufficient in electricity. Now the situation is that we're the last approximately. 15 years have seen a slight increase in Norwegian production. We are now in the situation that in a normal year of precipitation we import between five and seven TWh. It is one of the challenges that the Government is facing in terms of increasing production, and it is working intensively now. In addition, in a power system like the Norwegian one, where so much of the power production comes from hydropower, we will be able to experience in dry years that we produce up to 40 TWh less than what we do in good river basins, and this is of course a challenge. In this context, it is necessary for us to have capacity exchanges with our neighbouring countries, so that we can have as safe a supply of energy as possible even in those years of low rainfall. So this is mutually beneficial for our countries: we can export electricity when we have a lot of thinking, and we can import it when it's low rainfall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1140	I thank you once again for your answer. This suggests that the Council of State has a strong understanding of the realities of the challenges of Norwegian security of supply and balance of power in Norway. But there it stops like that. I believe that the government is clearly on the defensive in terms of power policy. It has not been able to put in place a certification system, nor has it been able to clarify the necessary framework conditions for the construction of new gas power plants. I must say that as far as the distance between words and action from the Government so far, I am very disappointed with the efforts of the Government and the Council of State. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Council of State whether it does not concern him that we have a weakened balance of power, which therefore requires the import of electricity even in a normal year. And: I haven't really got an answer to my question: What will the government do actively to improve and clarify this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1147	It has been four months since this government took on government responsibility, and in a number of areas we have launched large and important projects in relation to the future energy supply in Norway. I have not recorded, as I said, that there has been any particular increase in the production of Norwegian electricity in the last 10–15 years. For the last four years, the Progress Party has been part of the parliamentary basis – or perhaps there was another formulation used by the party president in this respect – for the previous government, without me seeing that one was able to solve some of the challenges that we have taken over, either in relation to the situation we have in Central Norway, or in relation to increasing production in Norway – not on gas power, not on hydropower. We are now taking this into account, and I can promise the representative Andersen that it is high on my political agenda to correct the errors and shortcomings that were not corrected in the last period, when the Progress Party was in a position where they had the opportunity to influence that government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1158	This question, from the representative Petter Løvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be raised by the representative Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1161	On behalf of the representative Petter Løvik, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: "The government has stated that they should pursue a more active state-owned policy. New acquisition laws and the replacement of board members have been mentioned as measures. It has proved difficult to find answers to the specific changes to be made and what might have been wronged in the current policy. Uncertainty about the key framework conditions such as change in ownership policy can be a major harm to businesses and workplaces. How will the Council of State contribute to the rapid resolution of these questions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1170	The value of the state's direct investment in Oslo Stock Exchange has increased by DKK 100 billion since the government change. This does not indicate any degree of uncertainty about the country’s ownership policy. The government will pursue an active and professional ownership policy. We have ambitions related to value creation, conversion, anchoring of head office functions, research and development, and not least to social responsibility. The State will use its shareholder influence to safeguard such interests in the companies in which it has shares. This will take place within the framework and the rules of the game resulting from the share law and generally accepted principles of ownership and corporate governance, including the country’s principles of good ownership. All companies, regardless of ownership, are assumed to assume social responsibility. However, the State has a specific responsibility to ensure that companies with State ownership carry out this work. I expect companies to act in a long-term and responsible manner. However, a crucial condition for the care of the environment, communities and employees is that the companies are profitable. Therefore, it is essential that enterprises constantly change and further develop in a good and constructive manner in close dialogue with owners, employees, authorities and communities. I want to establish clear expectations about how businesses deal with situations of migration in vulnerable communities. But social responsibility means more than that. It concerns, inter alia: business ethics, health, environment, safety, management salaries, integration and not least equality. I'm assuming that corporations with state ownership are going to be leading in these areas. The Government will discuss this further in the planned Government Ownership Notice. With regard to the replacements in the regimes, I would like to stress that I have full confidence in the regimes that are sitting today. However, this means that the annual assessment of the Governing Board may result in some changes, including: seen in the light of the strategic challenges of companies. I would like to remind you that in the listed companies there are electoral committees, where the state is represented. These are now at work. The State as a shareholder will participate in discussions and make input into this work, which will be based on new governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1183	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and ask the Council of State the following question: Is it a goal for the new government to increase the state's ownership of Oslo Børs? That's point one. Point 2: As the Council of State itself refers to here, the value of the state's shares in Oslo Stock Exchange has increased by over DKK 100 billion in 100 days. Does this not show that there has been a very responsible economic policy and a very successful – probably Europe's most successful – industrial policy? Can the Council of State give some concrete examples of what it is necessary to repair in the policy that has actually worked best across Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1190	What is common in Western Europe is that public ownership actively participates in processes in the enterprises in which they hold holdings. The fact that the values of the state at Oslo Børs have increased, as I pointed out in my main response, was valid in the period 17 October 2005 – 31 January 2006 – i.e. in the period after the new government took over. It shall not be attributed to the new government alone, but it illustrates that the debate on the composition and ownership of the board has had no negative impact on the value of the State's shares on the Stock Exchange. Whether the country's holdings will increase in the future: there are no concrete plans to change the holdings in the establishments in which the country currently holds holdings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1197	I perceive the Council of State so that he can not, either during the spontaneous Question Time today or now, list a single concrete example of the need for changes in the policy that was pursued under the previous government. The attempt to take the increase in the value of Oslo Stock Exchange to the income of today's government is, of course, becoming quite curious. Will it at the same time be understood that when Norway falls from 2nd to 18th place on the European Environment Stock Exchange, it is due to a failure of the new government's environmental policy? Governments talk about – and have talked a lot about – a more active state-owned enterprise policy, but he himself was involved in the sub-privatisation of Statoil and Telenor. Does he today have the impression that there was a bad decision he himself made when one made sure to partially privatize the two companies mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1204	The state's ownership of Telenor is today firm. The company has evolved very positively in recent years. The same is true of Statoil. I see no reason today to carry out an evaluation of what was right and wrong. I just notice that the companies have had a positive development. What is clearly the difference between this government and the previous government is the relationship with our ownership policy. This government has ensured that the state’s holdings in the Nammo business have increased from 45 p.m. to 50 pst., just in order to take account of Norwegian workplaces in Raufoss and maintain the headquarters function in Norway. At the same time, the Government has contributed to long-term ownership in order to ensure a high level of competitiveness in relation to – largely – privatised European defence policy. It is positive for the workplaces at Raufoss and for the community at Raufoss. This is an example of active state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1215	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, as elsewhere in Norway, snowmobile experiences can be seen as a complement to what tourists and residents can offer. The Council of State sees this as a positive thing, and what will the Council of State do to help make this a contribution to the development of our industry in our districts, such as the United States and Japan. in Trysil?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1224	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government is committed to pursuing restrictive policies in relation to motorised travel in the outland and to evaluating the test system of local motor travel in the outland before making changes to the law. For several years, a plan-driven motor vehicle management test has been carried out in some municipalities to clarify whether the purpose of the Motor Traffic Act can be better achieved by linking the practice closer to local level decisions and planning processes under the Planning and Building Act. The experiment has now been completed and the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research has submitted its evaluation report. The evaluation material forms the basis for the Motor Traffic and Society project, which started in 2005. This project shall review what is available from knowledge and experience on motor travel in a broad sense and, by means of an advisory group, shall endeavour to discuss up to the most common point of view for future motor travel policy. The project will be completed and a report will be submitted in the summer of 2006, i.e. this summer. When this report is available, the Government will have a broader basis for assessing the need for changes to current motor traffic legislation. If so, for example: In the light of the Motor Traffic and Society project, it appears that there is a need for legislative changes, such a proposal will be promoted at the earliest for Stortinget Spring 2007 session.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1235	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where he did not really give any promises or showed any positiveness to those who want to run snowmobiles, whether for business or private purposes. This is how I interpret at least the answer, but the Council of State will then come back to this later. Nor is it surprising that the red-green government wants restrictive policies in this particular area. That's what I think is sin, too even within the limit, for example. on the Swedish side east of Trysil, you drive a lot of snowmobiles, just a few meters within. It's the North who's traveling there. They live in Swedish hotels, motels, houses or cabins or whatever it is, and spend a lot of money on the Swedish side, money that could have been left on the Norwegian side. A snowmobile dealer in Trysil says he sells approx. 100 snowmobiles a year, while in Trysil there are very, very few who have permission to drive. Does this say anything to the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1240	This government is investing in tourism. There has never been so much money allocated to the tourism industry and tourism activity as it has been done this year. Scooter driving has clear implications for the tourism industry, which is also a district industry. I see the challenges that the representative of Bredvold refers to, and they will form part of the basis for the evaluation that the Government will make to see whether there is a need to make legislative changes. As I said, we'll come back to this if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1245	I thank the Council once again for the answer, which might have been a little bit more positive than the previous one. In the local view Østlandingen in Hedmark, Friday 11 November 2005, it says: ‘Turist boss Stig Kvebæk believes it is high time to get to snowmobiles on the Norwegian side. He says that snowmobile offers will be a good contribution to travel life in Trysil." Of course, it's not just for travel life in Trysil, but for travel throughout Norway, in places where it's possible to use snowmobiles, that this will be a good supplement, a good contribution to creating jobs, to boost business in areas where business might be somewhat leaner than elsewhere. Therefore, this is such an important matter for the districts that you should look a little bit more lightly at using snowmobiles. Of course, neither I, the Advance Party, nor anyone else to let it go completely freely, just so it's said, but under regulated forms snowmobile driving is a good supplement, a good contribution to maintaining the districts and district industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1255	I am well aware of the challenges and activity in relation to the scooter problem around the country. The travel industry is important, especially important for District Norway, and we have some challenges that we want to deal with. However, the tourism industry must also operate within the framework of nature and the environment. However, I am familiar with the issue, and as I said, we will look at the evaluation that is available, and if necessary come back with changes to also take into account the tourism industry and developments in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1264	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Many important new technical standards and rules come from an international perspective. These will then be incorporated into the Norwegian declarations. Many companies complain that these technical standards and rules do not exist in Norwegian. This makes it difficult to meet your requirements. Especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, this is a problem. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all technical standards and other rules/owners are provided in Norwegian?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1273	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is responsible for maintaining an infrastructure for the development of standards, and over the Ministry's budget for this year we allocate 24.8 million. kr for standardisation work. The then Norwegian Standards Association was merged in 2003 with three other standardisation organisations to achieve efficiency gains. I'm glad we can now see clear results from this aggregation. The new organisation, Standard Norway, may indicate a very positive trend in the translation of standards. The figures received from Standard Norway show an increase in the number of standards translated from 40 in 2004 to 90 in 2005, i.e. more than a doubling. This sharp increase is the result of the merger of four standardisation organisations and is now central to the management of translation resources. In addition, Standard Norway has a terminology database in place that will be an important tool to facilitate translation work and will help translate important standards more quickly into Norwegian than in the past. Technical rules and regulations relevant to the EEA are translated into Norwegian. However, the challenge is that many technical rules and regulations contain essential health, environmental and safety requirements and refer to standards in relation to the more detailed technical requirements. In cases where standards given under EU directives are not translated into Norwegian, part of our technical legislation will be available in a foreign language. This is a problem of which the Ministry of Industry and Trade and Standard Norway are very concerned. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade’s commitment to standardisation shall focus on the maintenance of the infrastructure and on projects and actions which naturally support this objective. Whether funds can be used for translation within this framework is up to Standard Norway itself to assess. We basically don't label any means specifically for translating standards. In Norway, several departments and underlying agencies are responsible for consumer and employee concerns, as well as the health, environmental and safety requirements of the authorities. In such cases, the trade authorities have a responsibility to assess whether the standards should be translated into Norwegian. This means that the professional authorities’ translation appropriations can be seen as an objective of their interest in having important standards translated into their responsibilities. Unfortunately, professional authorities have given limited priority to translations of standards. I will follow developments closely in the future with regard to the translation of standards, and take the initiative to ensure that the professional authorities contribute to the best possible response to the challenges raised by the representative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1288	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It was good to hear that there's a positive development here. We get a lot of alarm messages, as I said on my question, especially from small and medium-sized enterprises. These are high-tech enterprises. They're good in their field, but they're competing in an international market, and if they can't meet the standards demanded internationally when they're not in competition. That's why it's important that you translate these regulations. The question was essentially two-part. I want to mention this first of all with regulations and developments when it comes to translations. Do the state councils have a timetable? The number of translations has increased from 40 in 2004 to 90 in 2005, if I noted correctly. Does the Council have a target for what time it can be clear, so that everything is up-to-date, almost in minutes, when it is leading, so that it does not cause problems for Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1297	I don't think we have any ambition to translate all the standards and regulations into Norwegian. We don't have such an ambitious goal. I think it's very different from industry to industry whether there's a need for translation or not. For example, there is likely to be a greater need for the translation of the type of standards in the construction industry than that. is in the ICT or IT sector, where a foreign language is widely used as the main language of the industry. My commitment to the professional authorities will be to ensure that this is properly prioritised in relation to the needs of the different industries to have the standards translated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1302	One last follow-up question: it probably varies from industry to industry, but it's still a problem. It's a concrete case that I can mention. There are some people who produce lifts, and when it comes to the safety of lifts, one knows that if one is not completely clear about the regulations and bombs a little in language, etc., there may be disastrous consequences. If I understood the Council of State correctly, there are several departments in here, depending on the subject area. The Council of State said that he would help to translate what is necessary, but does the Council of State have any power, formally or perhaps not least informally, to exercise a pressure in other departments that have professional powers under their wings, so that it is not prioritised in other departments, because this is important?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1307	Former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Ansgar Gabrielsen knows that in his time in the department I wrote letters to eight different government councils calling for the kind of translation that the representative here points to. My initiative will be in line with what the former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade did, seeking to influence other departments and underlying agencies to ensure that translation is taken into account. It is right, as the representative points out, that there are some industries and industries where there is obviously a greater need for translation than in other industries and industries. The example of lifting crews is an illustration of the importance of individual tasks and the needs of individual parts of an industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1316	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘For almost 25 years, local forces have been working to make an impact on the construction of the E6 route at Driva in Oppdal. The route in question is one of the most busy sections of the road between Oslo and Trondheim, which have not yet been given a pedestrian and bicycle route in connection with the school. What can the Council of State do to ensure that the people of the Drivdalen are free to wait longer for a one-way and cycle path solution along the E6?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1325	According to the State Road Service, there is a local desire to build about 8 km of walking and cycling roads along the E6 in Drivdalen. The state road authority has stated that this is desirable, especially on a 1 km distance south from the Driva school to the county road 520. However, the state road authority did not find it possible to prioritise this within the framework of smaller investment measures on this route in the 2006-2009 action programme. In the South-Trøndelag, road safety measures, the development of the main road network for bicycles in Trondheim and public transport measures are the first priorities. No level clarification for route and cycle path is available. Prior to prioritisation of the measures, there is a need to maintain an approved regulatory plan. I argued that the State Road Service would further consider priorities, including any changes in relation to the established action programme. Of course, this must be done in connection with the work of the annual budgets, and it will be done in consultation with the county council. Since the box passes through several states, the State Road Service must assess the local priorities towards each other by the ultimate priority of action, both on this tribal route and on the tribal road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1332	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't think that this was a very positive response for those who live along this route. We're talking here about a very busy tribal road section, with not least a very large transit traffic. Here, for years, the big community has imposed a huge amount of traffic on the residents, a burden they have had to live with for a long, long time. It is not least about giving children the opportunity to move safely in their immediate environment. I also know that there are a lot of license brackets on this route. As you know, when building new road projects today, walking and cycling are part of the planning process from the very beginning. It may seem that it is easier to get through to new plants than to make arrangements for old ones. Is it so that the Council of State can promise the descents that she will see if she can support the development of the route and cycle path at Driva, so that they do not wait any longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1339	As the representative Lånke has said correctly, this case has been going on for 25 years. This means that in the last four years, through government cooperation, Loan has actually had the opportunity to address this matter in the run-up to the Government and to resolve it. I don't know why that hasn't been done. I'd like to look at this, but I keep very close to the local and regional priorities. That's what I think is important. In this case, there has been a regional discussion, and one has prioritised something else. I record this, and then we will look at the issues in the further work on the action programme to be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1346	I thank you again for the answer. Of course, there have been many governments and state councils in 25 years, but now it's getting closer to a limit where it's enough, and that's now we're going to talk about this. 25 years is a long time for a community. It's very unsafe to travel this way for both walking and cycling, and you have no alternative to it. There are no parallel paths that you can use. The state Road Service has incorporated the road in the action plan, but not before 2010, and then only parts of it. Then you still have to wait. However, Oppdal municipality is about to seize. They have said that they are willing to advance the expansion. Now the government has said that it may also be relevant for the state to advance the development of road projects at the time of borrowing, and my follow-up question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State assess the possibility of approving that in this case the municipality can forge the construction of a once- and a-bike path at Driva?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1359	I am aware that the Regional Road Agency recommended that the project be listed as a marginal project with any additional framework at the end of the period 2006-2009. With the budget limits given by the previous government, as well as the increase to which this government has provided, it has a lag of 25 million. kr in relation to the action programme after two years. When it comes to forwarding, we have rules on how the municipality can handle a forwarding case through its organs and through the county council, and if the municipality is willing to do so, I will of course go into the matter carefully and evaluate it when it arrives at my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1370	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Train commuters in the Oslo area experience a commuter’s everyday life where the concept of barrel fire is a very good description of the situation. The trains serving Akershus to and from Oslo in the rush hour are very crowded, creating a little pleasant work trip for thousands of faithful train commuters. This contributes to the frustration and anger of commuters. In addition, crowded trains are a safety risk. What will the Council of State do to ensure a better offer for train commuters in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1379	It is quite right that the NSB has had a monthly increase in the number of customers in recent years, and that this has resulted in very full trains in high-traffic periods. I am glad that several people are travelling by train. I have not received any messages that suggest that NSB does not provide security in a satisfactory way even in the rush time. It's the NSB that fixed the train offer to the commuters in Oslo and Akershus based on what the company thinks is commercially viable. The requirements for train provision set by the Ministry of Transport, the amounts for which the Ministry buys train services, and the capacity of the railway infrastructure in the Oslo area still have a significant impact on the nature of the train supply offered by the NSB. The infrastructure in the Oslo area is currently virtually fully exploited. This means that infrastructure development is needed to run several pendulum downhills in the Rushtime. The ongoing expansion of double tracks between Lysaker and Asker as well as the planned expansion between Oslo and Ski will improve the current required capacity situation and provide a basis for further development and a good supply, among others. train commuters in local traffic in the Oslo area. I will also work to increase investment in infrastructure development in line with the Soria Moria Declaration and the Majority Decision during the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2006–2015. The agreement of the Ministry of Transport and the NSB on government concessions for the purchase of passenger services by trains has a major impact on the train supply of trains, including: commuters in the Oslo area. This agreement shall be renegotiated in 2006. Increases in high-traffic train take-offs affect the size of NSB's material park and the need for increased state licensing for the purchase of passenger services from NSB. In the context of negotiations with the NSB, I would like to focus on assessing whether it is possible to increase the number of train departures during high-traffic periods in local train traffic in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1390	I myself am and have been train commuter in this area every single day for 15 years, and I know the situation better than most. The situation has now become so precarious that very many train commuters consider whether train commuting is the way they want to travel to and from work. As regards the safety situation, it is worrying. Trains pass through many long tunnels, and when trains are completely stuttered, you can only imagine the situation that will arise if an accident occurs. With regard to the development of double tracks, this will help in the situation, but also several trainsets need to be installed so that the number of take-offs can be increased. I would like to remind you that representatives of the government parties have gone high in terms of investing in public transport in this area, and I ask that the government here goes from word to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1401	I am very pleased with the commitment of Mr. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, who, in this way, is not entirely in line with the draft budget proposed by the Progress Party, where there was an extensive cut on the railway. I think the users of train services in the Oslo area should be happy that there is no Progress Party budget for which this Minister for Transport will govern the next period. In the Government, we are busy increasing the supply of train passengers, not least in the intercity triangle. We see that there are huge gains, both for the travellers, for the environment and for relieving someone who is in the process of being overburdened in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1408	My question was what the Council of State intends to do with this situation, not what the Progress Party intends to do. If the Council of State had read well the alternative budgets of the Progress Party, she would have quickly noticed that the Progress Party has proposed a strong commitment in the road sector, and especially in this area. This would, of course, also have helped with the capacity of public transport, as congestion on the roads would have been much less. What is worrying about this is that there is now a proposal for a new Oslopackage 3, which will probably propose a very high level of local self-financing via tolls. Is it true that transportation is a local or a state responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1415	I did in my first answer something about what I want to do both on the infrastructure side and when it concerns the purchase of services. When it comes to the government's view of how to get a better trade around Oslo, and the big challenge that lies here, we will give priority to public transport, so as to reduce road congestion. So we have the very opposite view with respect to the Progress Party, which will increase traffic on the roads to relieve public traffic. We will bet on public transport, including rail, for years to come, and I am very pleased that the Progress Party in Oslo is in favour of toll financing and so on will be on a lift that will make the remarkable improvement for collective travellers in this area for years to come. It is a completely necessary grip that a person is thinking of taking in Oslopackakt 3, which I have not got on my table, but which I am briefed on, and which I will follow very carefully in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1426	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Once again, Hedmark has been hit by a traffic accident with death. Once again it was on the E6. The reasons may be different, but the lack of appropriations on the transport budget and Hedmark at the bottom may be a cause. What will the Council of State contribute to reducing the number of accidents in both the short and long term on both the E6 and other road sections affected by accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1435	In recent years, there have been many serious accidents on E6 from Gardermoen to Otta. At E6 in Hedmark, 19 people have been killed in the last five years. In Hedmark, a total of 94 people lost their lives in traffic during the same period. 65 pst. of the killed and severely injured E6 in Hedmark were involved in meeting accidents. In connection with the last tragic accident at the E6 in Stange, it was winter-time, and in both oars, one of the vehicles came into the opposite lane. The most effective measure to prevent the closing of the meeting is the construction of the midpoints between adjacent runways. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004, National Transport Plan 2006–2015, the route E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen will be converted into four-field road with physical mid-sections during the planning period. This is followed up in the Action Programme for investments on the Tribal Road Network for the period 2006-2009, starting from the first four-year period if it is agreed to partial toll financing of the project. I am busy clearing the route plans and financing arrangements so that the facility can get started and be implemented as planned. In the 2006-2009 action programme, there are also 65 million. kr for the construction of physical middle parts on exposed sections of E6 in the municipality of Ringsaker. As part of traffic security work, the State Road Administration carries out automatic speed control on the national road network in cooperation with the police. Along the E6 in Hedmark there are five points for automatic traffic control. The trough for new control points is evaluated annually. Technical inspection of heavy goods vehicles is another field of activity, including: checking of brakes and tyres. This effort will be increased. Furthermore, the State Road Service will continue to prioritise the brewing, bedding and salting of E6 to keep the road as free as possible from ice and snow. In 2005, the Road Administration established its own accident analysis teams in all regions. The groups are composed of highly skilled professionals. All road traffic accidents involving deaths are investigated by these groups. For the last two deadlocks on Stage, there is still no police report or report from the Occurrence Analysis Group. I also refer to my answer to question No. 11, by the representative of Thore A. Nistad, in question on 11 January of this year, who blatantly held the E6 in Oppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1448	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a summary of what has happened, what has happened to accidents, what has happened to improvements on the route, and what the Storting has said you should do. But there was not so much answer to what the Council of State will do in the future, what she will contribute to change what is already decided. It turns out that what is determined is probably not enough. There has to be greater appropriations, more work is needed, and more action needs to be taken. It is not enough to set up more photo boxes, have more technical checks or have more speed checks. So there has to be more way, there needs to be better roads, and there needs to be better service on the roads. That is what I demand that the Council of State with the Red-Green Government should be able to contribute. My question becomes whether the Council of State seems to be a good economy to spend money on better and safer roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1455	Governments can answer a clear yes to the question. It is a good economy to use society’s resources for a better purpose, both in order to safeguard the roads and in order to ensure not least the interests of business and the firm. The representative of Bredvold has a great commitment to this. He has asked similar questions about E6 and road safety before, and that is very good. As a government council, I have a strong search light on this. The government will work on the objectives of the Soria Moria declaration to increase the road construction framework by DKK 1 billion. We're going to follow that up. What may surprise me is that the great commitment that Bredvold now has, and that he has also had in the past, has not been laid down in an increased effort in the years that the Progress Party had the opportunity to influence budgetary appropriations and frameworks. It would be a better basis for this Council of States to begin with if the frameworks had been slightly larger when we started.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1464	Once again, I may also have to repeat that what I am asking about is what the Council of State wants to contribute in the future, not what has happened under previous governments or has been taken up by other representatives. I ask what the Council of State will do to ensure that the E6 and other road sections are as safe and secure as possible for both soft and hard road users, whether you use the road to get from A to B to visit someone, for example, or you have to transport goods from A to B in order to maintain the settlement in the districts. That's what I'm asking about, not what's happened, but what the Council of State and her government will contribute in the future. I think of those who are gone. I think of those who are injured, and the state many of them are unfortunately in. I think of those who are going to use the road today, tomorrow and in the future. That's what I'm asking, Councillor. That's what I want an answer to. That's the promises I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1471	I've done the right thing for what I want to bet on. I have done well for the various road safety measures we will bet on. I've done my best to increase the envelope by $1 billion, as it says in the Soria Moria statement, as a follow-up to the action programme. That's the line I'm working on. When it comes to the priority of the individual road installations, there is a roll-out decision about what we will follow up. We are now working on rolling out the national transport plan and, of course, we are going to intensify this effort further in the future. My goal is to increase both the focus and the economic effort on road construction in Norway in the time to come. As I see it, I am very pleased with the great and good commitment that several big business representatives and parties show by supporting me in the important work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1489	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1496	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Due to the lack of plans/regulation, there is still a road parcel of about 1 km to rv. 61 Brygja-Møre border with narrow and curved roads that are not upgraded when ongoing work is completed during the year. This will be a bottleneck to the detriment of the users. What the government will do to make the remaining roadmarks on Rv. 61 Bryggja-Møre Grenze will be upgraded as soon as possible, without prejudice to the progress of other planned/started road installations in Sogn and Fjordane?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1505	Remedy of rv. 61 from More and Romesdal border to Naveos started in spring 2005 and is expected to end in summer. This will complete a number of improvements carried out in the 1990s. The problem of the distance has essentially our weak edges and low relativity and, to a lesser extent, the geometrical design. The cost estimate is 20 million. kr. There are alert cost reductions on the route. For the journey from Naveosen to Bryggja, a detailed plan was drawn up according to the road laws of 1980. Vågsøj Municipality has recently asked the State Road Administration to assess whether this plan is an adequate planning basis for improving the route. The main trade selections in Sogn and Fjordane have asked the State Road Administration for a note on how to repair Rv. 61. They were sent to them in the last week. The course from Naveosen to Bryggja is not a priority in the action programme for other national roads in Sogn and Fjordane in the period 2006-2009. The cost reductions on the route Møre and Romsdal border – Naveosen will only be able to finance a small part of the recovery from Naveosen to Bryggja. I want to put a decisive emphasis on the priorities of the Western Council and the Sogn and Fjordane municipalities in my work, here as otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1514	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Now it is well such that it was Stortinget himself who took the initiative to start upgrading the installation that is being carried out. It's a little sad if one should come in the situation that one experiences the same thing on this plant as one did on Rv. 620 from Kjøde to Årsheim, where one transported over 100,000 cubics of mass that one could use on the site if one had chosen to run the other road instead of one. As I have registered, add a surplus mass to the road system on Rv. 61 Brygja-Møre border. It would be interesting to think to the right of the council that one might be able to arrange it so that one could use this excess mass to fill along this road. It's not on the road, because it was already redeemed in 1984.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1521	I am asking for understanding that I cannot go into detailed questions about this project, but what I have been informed about is that there is no control plan for the distance between the Naveo and the construction on Maurstad, i.e. the Sollibakkane and Nore. The reason for this is, of course, that the preparation of the regulatory plan has been out of date by Vegvesenet, as the repair of the route does not have a doctor within the action programme. Such a regulatory plan will take about one year to prepare. Then, of course, there's nothing in the way that one, in cooperation with the road office locally, evaluates the kind of solutions Starheim wants. There's a question that it's not possible for me to go in and answer concretely from my place here. I do not know this project in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1528	I thank you again for your reply from the Council of State. What I hope for and ask for is that one be willing to take an initiative so that one can put the excess mass along the route that is now standing. Since one is the owner of the land, it should be possible to do so, instead of doing what is done on the premises of Kjøde-Årsheim, transport away usable bulk that one cannot take back. I therefore ask the Council of State to use its positions and its channels to influence one to do so, because it could in the next run mean that one gets a much cheaper facility than one gets to start one without anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1535	It's always nice to trust, and it's nice to say that as a councillor I can use the power I have in different areas, not least at home and on projects that I want to do, of course, in lifting. But I have to stick to the plans and the procedures that we have to stick to. The distance from the bridge at the Naveos to Maurstad is heavy and demanding, after what I have been informed, and will require major intervention. I don't know if such a buffer is possible, and how long it will take to complete this distance. It will be entirely dependent on how Sogn and Fjordane stateing prioritize this route when they are re-entering and evaluating the remaining national roads. So this is a process where not least the county is an important party, which must be in dialogue with the municipality and the road office if one wants to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1546	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The post has succeeded in making major changes in its activities since 2000 and has thereby strengthened its competitiveness and profitability. Modernisation is the best guarantee that the Post is fully competitive, expected across the EU in 2009. This will also contribute to satisfactory profitability, user service and safe workplaces. Will the Council of State ensure that the Post continues this successful process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1555	The entry Norge AS has carried out a major transformation and efficiency in the last few years, and the company can currently show very good results. This has happened at the same time as the Post has gained additional service and quality of the universal postal services. I am as the manager of the state's ownership of Posten, busy with the company continuing to develop the business of a modern and efficient enterprise that takes on social responsibility. Today comes at the base of 90 pst. by the Item’s income from competitively set-aside. Competition in the market puts pressure on the company to streamline operations and further develop services. At the same time, loss of income due to decreases in the volume of A and B postal services, together with the general increase in wages and costs, will still be a major challenge for the Post Office's long-term wage development. In other words, the development of the postal market, regardless of whether and where the postal market is liberalised, puts pressure on the Post Office to implement measures to underpin the profitability of the company. I know that the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of the Post will continue the successful development of the company, and that they will make the necessary adjustments to ensure that we will also have a good and effective postal service in the future, which will be available to all users throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1564	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that it's good in the Post. The Transport and Communications Committee has recently visited the Post Office and received a thorough briefing on the Post Office’s activities. We experienced competent, enthusiastic employees who were proud of their job and genuinely concerned about the Post. The post itself says that the best guarantee for the Post to further develop a good nationwide postal service is not protection against competition, because the Post is competitive. Does the State Council mean that the Post is wrong when they claim this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1571	As I said, Posten is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the company after it was transformed into an AS. As a general assembly, the Ministry of Transport and I have responsibility for the major political lines. The majority has decided to postpone the liberalisation of the Post Office. There's no peculiarity in Norway. The EU has not introduced liberalisation per year. today, and at a meeting of the previous week with the responsible Commissioner for, among others. I was given the clear impression that this is a matter that has not been resolved in any way within the EU. So we get to come back to liberalisation in the Post at a later date. So far, the Stortinget has decided that it will be liberalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1576	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I said in my previous question, the Post itself wants to get better. The mail uses – and should use – every day to get better and make things a little smarter. Everyone who's been doing sports knows that it's important to have something to measure up to. The post wants to measure itself against the Nordics and Europe, but then they have to have the same instruments that they are going to compete with. Otherwise, they'll be losers in the competition. What measures will the Council of State give the Post? And: Is the Council of State confident that if she does not carry out the announced liberalisation, she will not apply the Post Year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1583	I want to do good for the future strategies that the Post is working on, when I'm going to present the 10th message to the Stortinget. As the representative is probably aware, Posten no increases its market territory by also building up in Denmark. It's a development that the Council of State thinks is good, because we see that, especially within the business-right market, there was a Nordic market after all, and then it would be a great competitive advantage for the Post to be able to establish itself in these areas. In terms of competitive advantage vis-à-vis others, there is no weakness in any way, as other EU countries have not yet fully liberalised. There are a few exceptions to that, but so far we have not applied any competitive disadvantages to Posten in this area. We fully support the strategies that the Posten has in relation to developing a Nordic market in the areas that are competitive both in Norway and in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1595	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the 2006 State budget, the Stortinget decided to strengthen the allocations for asphaltification by 70 million. kr. This would mean increasing the framework for this purpose. The State Road Service states that Telemark’s framework has been proposed to be reduced by 4 million. NOK 2006 and 5 million have to be refunded. kr with which the framework was increased in 2005. This results in a 14 million reduction in Telemark. kr from 2005 to 2006. How are these 70 million? kr has been disposed of and the Council of State may at the same time provide an overview per year. State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1604	The permission for asphaltification in 2006 was increased by 70 million through the management of the additionalproposal. kr. This has been incorporated into the ordinary allocations for each region and divided by between 10 and 19 million. kr for each region. Southern region, which includes, inter alia: Telemark, got 15 million. kr. Furthermore, region received 19 million. SEK, Region west 13 million. kr, region mid 10 mill. SEK and Region North 13 million. kr. The regions allocate funds to asphaltification on the basis of the criteria to ensure the distribution of funds in relation to the state development of road tyres. The funds are allocated to the road sections of the region where the need is greater. This means that the annual transfers to each country will also vary relatively. Even with our increase in relation to Bondevik II's budget, the overall framework for the region south of 2006 for item 23, which covers this area, is about 63 million. kr lower than 2005. That means that Bondevik's government cuts a lot on this. Even if we tried to follow up on any of it, it wasn't enough. This will also reduce the efforts for asphaltification in the region. In 2005, the Road Directorate allowed the region to exceed its budget for asphaltification by 15 million. kr. Telemark's share of this was 5 million. kr. In accordance with previous practice, this excess will be covered by unused funds in other items, and by the amount of $5 million specified. kr was thus not claimed back by Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1618	I want to ask a question to the Council of State. It is claimed from some that some of these funds that were intended to be used for asphaltification are now being used in the conversion process in the state road system. Can the Council of State confirm or cancel that type of rumor or claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1625	I'm not familiar with rumors or facts that go in that direction. Of course, when such rumors arise, I shall examine whether that is the case. These are essential resources, which must be strictly guaranteed for the regions to go to. I can assure the representative that I will at least ensure that this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1630	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm very happy about the last one, that the Council of State will follow up that issue. I still want to challenge the Council of State on one thing. With the appropriations now available and those available for distribution, E134 between Kongsberg and Notodden will not receive asphaltification, which was planned by the State Road Administration. This is a very accident-affected stretch, where there are major problems with the road surface. We also know that Telemark is a state that unfortunately has had a negative accident development in 2005, and it doesn't look very happy for 2006. So my question is whether the Council of States will look into the possibility of doing something about that distance. This was inside and intended to be done in 2006, but it has now been pushed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1639	The most important government and state councils can do is to increase the roadway licensing framework, so that one within the divided framework can give priority to the projects that were inside that unfortunately have not been completed because we have already had a aftermath. My job – I'm going to do what I can to do – is, of course, to raise the roadblock in line with the Soria Moria statement and to ensure that Telemark can also get more funds, both for construction and maintenance, in the future. But that's what we're going to get back to, because the budgetary process has only begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1650	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Council of State has proposed a law which in practice has retroactive effect by approx. 40 fresh oils already authorised are refused start-up with State aid. What assessments do the Councils of State make of the general confidence of the population in the State as a predictable party to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1659	The plural government has a different view of health schools than the previous government had. We want to turn a trend from a growth in fresh air to a collection of funds in public schools. When we took over, it was due to uncontrolled growth in post-secondary places. If all approved schools and applicant student places had been put into service for the autumn of 2005 and the autumn of 2006 respectively, this would have represented an increase of approx. 6 800 student seats, approx. 40 schools, in independent primary schools, and approx. 15 000, or 75 schools, in independent secondary schools. In other words, the increase would have been about 50 pst. in primary and about 150 pst. in secondary schools if all places had been filled. It was therefore necessary to change its political course. The temporary law will lead to a freeze state until a permanent law, which will be promoted in the autumn of 2006. Of the 15,000 places in high school, almost all were schools like John Bauer, the Academy and Sonans, which represent no pedagogical or religious alternative to public school. In general, they have applied for places in general courses of study in the different urban centres we have. The public had thus been responsible for more expensive offerings and schools in the districts, and this had resulted in many closed public schools. This is not in line with the Government's view. The government's political platform is clear in the view of the incubators. This is the political background for the proposal that the Government will shortly submit to the Storting. The government's view is that it is the Stortinget at any time that determines the country's school policy – it's fundamental to any democracy. The government’s decision to put a legislative amendment before the Storting came early — before schools have made special arrangements. The decision has little impact on pupils and parents. In any area of society, political decisions by elected bodies lead to costs that have been incurred as a result of the changes in the framework conditions. I therefore conclude that the procedure chosen is reasonable. The political change in course should not come as a surprise to anyone either. The three government parties want a strong public schoolwork. The Soria Moria Declaration supports this. It may not have been unexpected that the government wanted a shift in school policy, nor that the Stortinge may want to change school policy when the political majority changes. The previous government and the previous boom changed school policy according to its policy — allowing the establishment of a number of health schools, even after it had lost its choice. It approved 5,000 schools after Bondevik lost the election and after school, while the new government negotiated its political platform on Soria Moria. Finally, I would like to point out that the political change in course has not been made without thorough legal processing. I therefore asked the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice to investigate whether it would be contrary to the Constitutional Act § 97 by law to intervene in already granted permits for the operation of fresh oils without compensation for any financial loss caused by the amendment of the law. The answer was clear: the law department found it clear that it was not contrary to the Basic Law § 97 by law to intervene in permits for the operation of post-secondary schools in cases where the business was not started. This opinion was presented on the Ministry's website and is, of course, available to Stortinget. I believe that I could show that the procedure that has been chosen is good, and could not have come as a surprise to anyone either. The procedure also does not imply any retroactive effect contrary to the Constitution. I would like to point out that the people in elections have given this government a mandate. The policy of the government parties is clearly reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration and also in the political debate before the elections. In this way, I believe to be able to establish that the Government in this matter has acted as a predictable democratic actor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1682	It is an open and honest matter that there are different views about fresh oils, and I do not affect them either. I also do not affect the difference between the sitting government and the previous government. I also do not affect that you are allowed to propose changes to the law. I also don't affect that one, for example. does not promote the examination of applications located there which have not been dealt with. I'm only talking about 40 schools that, according to a law that exists, are actually approved for start-up, which therefore meets the legal requirements that are there. So I have no doubt that the Council of State has received an excellent investigation from the law department. The law department is good. But what I'm talking about is the general trust ratio over and over the jessen. For the public to know that, as the Council of State says, it will change the law – fine and honest – and stop something to stop – fine and honest too. But it focuses on those schools that, under the current law, before the law has been amended, are stopped in a row, after they have been approved under the existing law. It's like there's a difference between parties and the administration of state power. If the government is administered, the general trust in the government is also managed. That's why I've formulated the question that I've done to the Council of State. And I repeat that, because I found that he really didn't answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1687	Yes, I answered the question. The unique conclusion of the law department is that this is not even in the border country of the law. What we do is safe within the law, otherwise, of course, we wouldn't have done that. But trust in the lawmaker: the previous government approved 5,000 schools and tried the recommendation of the Education Directorate. It had lost the choice. We sat and negotiated a new political platform for our government. At that time, 5,000 schools were approved in the last three weeks before the new government joined. So if you're talking about who has the voter's vote and the school policy mandate, it would be fair for the outgoing government not to deal with these applications it knew our government had a different view of. We are doing what is in line with our government's political platform, what is in line with Norwegian law, and we are doing what our voters want us to do. In this way, what we are doing, the root of a democracy, as the previous government of course had the opportunity to change education policy in its direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1694	The government that went off was, in agreement with the incoming Prime Minister and the Prime Minister who was still sitting, for nothing to count until after 14 October. 11, when the budget was submitted and examined. At that time it was a functioning government, and it was the game rule that was established until then, as was the case. So based on the policy that was, the government acted as it did, and according to the law that existed. So I'm not infecting, point 1, that the red-green government is going to change the law. I also do not affect that it will do so on the basis of its conviction – of course I do not. I just wonder at the fact that before the law has been amended and after the approval of these 40 schools – and that is not the large number of schools that the Council of State brings up – they are stopped after they have been approved under the existing law. My question concerns the wisdom of such a policy. For trust and trust go beyond the letter of the law, it also goes on the social contract between those who govern, and those who are governed. That's what's at the heart of my question, and I'm again challenging the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1699	What we're doing is both wise and correct. It's wise in relation to what we've asked for support from our voters for, and got, and that's right according to the law. If there's anyone who's surprised in this, it's the Left, who, generation after generation, has had a long fight for the public school. The left has been one of those who have brought forward the idea of the primary school and the single school through generations. I am surprised that the Left in the previous government accepted that the Right should be guided by education policy and allow so many commercial schools to be set up, which beat the legs of what has been the Left's educational policy view from the last century onwards. It also surprises me that Odd Einar Dørum now doesn't even see what we're doing, is actually in line with what has been the bearer cross-political, educational policy view in Norway through generations, where the Left has been an important player and supporter. What we're doing now is adjusting the course back to what's been the Left's view of education policy before. And it surprises me, therefore, that the Left – when they no longer sit with the Right in Government – still has a rhetoric that is contrary to what is historically the educational policy view of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1704	President! I ask for the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1709	Yes, if it's obvious and not questionable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1712	Yes, it is new to me that the Left believes that legislation should have retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1717	We move on to the next question – from the representative Anders Anundsen to the government council Djupedal. - I'm sorry! The President has skipped a question – the next question is from Åse M. Schmidt, to the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1724	We're not going to fight about exactly that piece, who comes first. We'll be there, and we'll be fine. Now we've been to the Council of State -- I might say -- conflict between public school and current high school. And the question I'm going to raise is actually about a school type that's not in competition with the public: «Norwegian business is currently doing very well. There is therefore a huge need for qualified staff from abroad to meet demand. An offer of an international school is an important element in the competition for these. In Kristiansand, the municipality, the business community and a large political majority have been united to establish such a school, which will not be in competition with the public school. Such establishment is urgent. Will the Council of State contribute to the rapid processing of the school’s application for authorisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1735	The government is implementing a new policy in the field of high school. We intend later this month to present an odelstingsproposition to the Stortinget, with proposals for a legislative change, so that new schools are temporarily not approved. As the next stage in the implementation of the policy change, I have started a major investigation work with a view to major and comprehensive changes, in line with the government's policy. In this work, international schools will also be evaluated. During the freezing period, until the new law is in place, I am concerned that there is as much equal treatment as possible. I would like to remind you that in the proposal for a temporary amendment of the law, which has been at the hearing, the right to express the opinion of the municipalities and county councils has been maintained. This has been addressed by several municipalities and municipalities in the hearing opinions. During the application procedure, municipalities and county councils will still be consulted. In this case, no application has been made. I also point out that the Directorate of Education is the approval body. Therefore, at this stage, I cannot say any more about the possible procedure and the length of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1744	We now see that the Council of State is nurturing research, nurturing demands for knowledge and strangling important educational sites. And earlier today, we heard the Minister of Industry point out the need for qualified, highly educated, professionals in the business world. One can sometimes wonder if the state councils in each of their fields are talking to each other, if there is some cooperation. That's when it happens -- that's when we need these schools. We don't have time to wait. Does the Council of State feel that it is right to take time out now — and thus risk losing our business life in the international market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1751	As I have explained, the Government has a different view of primary school policy than the outgoing government. We have been hearing a proposal for a temporary law, which will be submitted to the Storting in a short time. Then we are working on a proposal for a permanent law, which will be sent to the hearing for the autumn and presented to the Stortinget next spring. The school we're talking about here, we haven't even received an application for the establishment of. And in that case, it will be the Education Directorate that is the approval authority. That means that it wouldn't in any way be right for me to go into a single school case. But in general, it is the proposal of law that we will present to the Stortinget, a freezing law, which will deal with all the freshies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1758	Then I really expect this type of school to belong to the first group, what is first presented, precisely because this is urgent. Can the Council confirm that the contents of the first note will be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1763	The majority will be presented with a proposal for a law which has now been consulted. It will be up to Stortinget how to deal with this bill further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1772	It is an unconditional pleasure to be able to promote the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Friskols are an important private supplement to public school and are operated under the law of higher education without the possibility of paying dividends and under the same rules on quality as public school. Private kindergartens are an important private supplement to public kindergartens and operate in accordance with the same quality regulations as public kindergartens. The Council of State praises private kindergartens in Our Country on 13 January, which I am pleased to see. Why, then, is the condemnation of similar offers in the school community so strongly from the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1781	By facilitating good cooperation with private developers, it has been possible to obtain a childcare coverage in Norway of about 10 %. 74 pst. If you had only invested in community development, I am convinced that we would still have very long left for full child care. The government likes to see municipalities bet more on kindergarten development even under their own direction, in order to ensure a good public offer of kindergarten. In my opinion, there is an important fundamental distinction between school and kindergarten that requires a different attitude to the relationship between private developers and drivers and public developers and drivers. Kinderhagen is a voluntary offer, while the school is compulsory. The school sector is well-inhabited, with community schools, accessible to all. The kindergarten sector is poorly developed for comparison. The government places emphasis on the local community school as an important public arena and believes that the increase in the proportion of students in private schools will weaken the public common school — both quality and as an important social and cultural common arena in an increasingly fragmented society. Let me finally add that I do not fully recognize myself in the concept of the question. The government sees positively that there should be an element of private schools, as a supplement to the public. In the spring of 2007, we will present proposals for a new permanent school law. We want to spend time ensuring that this is a good law for the future knowledge society. But what is certain is that there will be a law that provides for public support for schools that provide alternatives to the public – either on a pedagogical or religious basis. This is what we need — both to ensure diversity in the education sector and to ensure that the human rights obligations of Norway are met in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1792	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am somewhat surprised at that. The council says there's a fundamental distinction between kindergarten and school, because one is voluntary and the other is mandatory. I thought that higher education was still voluntary. That means that the principle distinction here the Council of State expresses in terms of high school does not matter. And that means that I have basically not received a good answer to my question, what is the reason why the private school offer, on the one hand, is condemned, while the private kindergarten offer, on the other hand, is very eloquent – especially in a picture where the kindergarten policy has been introduced under the Ministry of Knowledge, precisely because it is to be viewed as part of the total educational scheme. So the follow-up question is, is it wrong that high school is voluntary? If the Council of State agrees that it is voluntary, will the bill he intends to promote for the Storting not include high-level fresh-soles?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1801	Kindergartens are an important supplement – and voluntary. Over the last few years, we have had a marked expansion of kindergartens. We're happy about that. We have achieved this through a combination of two things: ever-increasing government grants and, not least, municipalities that have facilitated the expansion of kindergartens. They have made this clear, not least because the Stortinget made a large-scale compromise – which was also part of the Advance Party – that was about to bet on kindergartens. Kindergarten is a voluntary offer. And you don't necessarily have to go to a kindergarten near where the family lives. School is an arena that we want to be a common arena. We saw with great concern the increasing proportion of fresh oils that were established or for which an application was made for establishment. Against this background, the Government will promote for the Stortinget proposals for legislative changes that reflect our view of the voluntary kindergarten sector and of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1808	I thank you again for the answer. I think I have to put the question a little clearer, because I feel that I got no answer. The question, then, is whether or not the Council considers secondary education to be a voluntary offer, as is the case with kindergartens. If the Council of State considers this to be a voluntary offer, will high-level health schools be exempted from this ban line that he has previously addressed? I record that the private kindergartens are only mentioned because the public has not managed to solve the problem. It's in a way that since the public can't do this, the private supplement is eelreit, but since we can solve high school, we don't need the private initiative. I hope that's the wrong opinion from my side. I am still challenging the Council of State to answer the last question I asked in the follow-up round: Is secondary education to be considered a voluntary education, and will high-level health schools therefore be exempted from the ban that the Council of State wants to impose on that type of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1819	Secondary schools are an important common arena. We want to go to public schools as much as possible, to give everyone a good offer. In my previous answer, I gave a comprehensive description of what could have happened to the high school if we had allowed the establishment of as many schools as it was requested – the whole 150 pst. increase. Then the public school would have been left responsible for the district schools, the more expensive education services, and in reality it would be very difficult to dimension a good public education for everyone. It is we, as the education authority and state, who have the responsibility and duty to give all citizens the right to a secondary school if they want it. That's why we consider the entire elementary school cycle and the secondary school cycle to be a natural part of the possibility, the platform, that people should be able to build their lives on. Kindergarten is an important start for those who want it. That's why we've been so committed to the development of the kindergarten sector. But it's a voluntary offer in a different sense than the school system is. It's true that if you don't want to go to high school, you have the opportunity to choose it away, but it's a right you have if you want it. Fortunately, almost all Norwegian children want to attend high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1832	‘The Council of State has expressed on several occasions that he was given a ‘mandate by the people in elections’ to make significant efforts towards the post-secondary schools. Can the Council of State tell when and where the three current government parties before the elections expressed a common policy for the colleges, and in particular when and where the three parties before the elections indicated that approved incubators were to be refused start-up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1839	The Labour Party, SV and the Centre have, on a number of different occasions before the elections, marked agreement in the field of primary school policy, among others. at the presentation of 155 points in the summer of 2005, in the setting of the Perspective Communication, Innst. S. No 139 for 2004-2005, as well as in the nomination of the Municipal Committee for proposals to strengthen the funding of secondary schools, Innst. S. No 257 for 2004-2005. Prior to the elections, it was clearly communicated that a change of government would lead to changes in the policy of free school when a new law was introduced. But, of course, the current government parties do not prepare a detailed and concrete proposal for a new law before the elections. The process belongs to a sitting government, and which lots were to be in the government position, it was up to the voters to decide. The government has proposed that the law should be amended in two steps. First, a proposal for a temporary law in the spring of 2006 is promoted to control the strong growth in private schools that the previous government provided. Next, proposals for a new permanent law in the spring of 2007 will facilitate the recognition of schools as an alternative, either educational or religious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1848	I brought here a bunch of newspaper articles from months before the election. I can draw three conclusions from the newspaper headlines: there was not one free school play by the Socialist Left Party that was not to be rendered harmless by the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Not in one high school play, the three parties agreed. It is not possible to follow one consistent line from one output to another. In the newspaper on 8 April 2005, the head of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, says that it is not possible to withdraw authorisations that have already been granted. He says, ‘It is more complicated, because the law limits provisions with retroactive effect.’ He reiterates this position on 19 June 2005 in the Evening Post, where he says that it is not appropriate to ‘revoke permits granted to establish fresh oils’. So I ask again, how could the 40 schools that have now been deprived of the approval and refused to start up know that this was going to happen as a result of a government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1862	The common policies of the government parties in the field of higher education are defined in two positions by the Stortinget plus the joint press conference of the three party leaders in the summer of 2005 – in good time before the election campaign started. In the perspective communication, which replaces the old long-term programme, these three parties give a very clear signal of the changes that will be associated with the field of education. The same was true in the decision of the Municipal Committee on the financing of secondary schools. But also at the press conference in the summer of 2005, this was very clearly signaled. Then, of course, these three parties have run an independent election campaign, which also the parties in the previous, or resigned, government did. The right was running its campaign, while the Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party were running their election campaigns, as there are parties to do. What we negotiated at Soria Moria is very much in line with what has been common denominator in these three parties. This could hardly come as a surprise. In particular, I would like to emphasise the following points: the fact that voters give their mandate to this in a election is the strongest vote a government can get. We now have a majority government that went to the elections that we wanted to change the law of high school, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1871	The problem is that the voters have not given a mandate in the elections to withdraw the approvals and stop the establishment of 40 already approved fresh oils. I find that at no time in this round of questions has the Council of State been able to respond to when the three batches jointly before the elections indicated that these approvals were to be withdrawn and that the start was to be refused. I therefore go back to the first follow-up question I asked, which concerns the statements made by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg on several occasions before the elections. Does the Council of State Djupedal believe that Prime Minister Stoltenberg has misled the 40 schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1878	What our government has done has been carefully assessed legally. This opinion from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice is, of course, available to Stortinget and is located on the Ministry's website. I assume the chairman of the committee has read it with interest. It states that it is not even in the law's frontier country what the Government does. It is in line with and within general Norwegian law. That's why we're doing the same thing. This is a combination of a politically expressed will through elections, where the voters have given their vote for a course conversion. The outgoing government did not get the voters’ support in the view of fresh oils, it clearly shows the result of the elections. That's why there was a new government. What we are doing is in line with what our parties through treatment here in Stortinget last spring said, and in line with what the party leaders said at their joint press conference – as far as I remember in Soria Moria – in the summer of 2005, when it was decided that the law on free schooling would be amended. How a new government changes the law, how to proceed legally here, belongs to the new government. And of course, Ine Marie Eriksen knows all about that, and so did the previous government. That means that, as a government, we have to go into matter carefully and see how we promote this for the legislative body, the Storting, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1891	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The draft law on early school leave, which was sent to the hearing, proposed a temporary stop in the approval of new independent primary schools. At the same time, it is said that in exceptional cases the Ministry may grant exemptions if the school complies with the law. The derogation is mainly applicable when setting up local schools in pig-grown areas, «branches». In what other cases does the Council of State consider it appropriate to grant derogations from the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1900	It is a subtle exception proposed in the draft consultation. In the odelstningsproposition that the Government intends to promote for the Storting later this month, a detailed description of the exemption family will be provided. Proposals for more permanent changes to the law on early school leave will be sent to the hearing in autumn 2006 with a view to being submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2007. During the freezing period until the new permanent law is in place, I am concerned with the greatest possible level of non-discrimination. Nevertheless, the derogation has been proposed in such a way that derogations can be granted in exceptional cases. With reference to the work being done in the department, I am not prepared today to give any concrete examples. It would be to anticipate the proposition work. I look forward to a more detailed discussion of this when the Storting will deal with the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1905	I thank you for the answer, but I can't say I am satisfied with it. The Council of State also referred to the hearing opinion, and he said that there would be a very tight opening with regard to exemptions, but that there is also a concern about possible non-discrimination. In an answer to the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to questions about international school in Kristiansand, the Council of State uses exactly the same wording. He replied that it could be ‘thinking situations where the temporary stoppage gives completely unreasonable results’ and indicates that the draft consultation proposed ‘a narrow exception’. This exception is particularly the coin of the so-called cross-border schools, etc. And then he says, ‘I also do not exclude that there may be very special cases where exceptions should be made for other schools, which represent a real alternative to public schools.’ It's getting a little bit confusing. Which schools should be exempted? It's probably cross-country schools, it's possibly international schools, which it might suggest in this answer. Is it possible that primary schools and these other schools are more qualified to obtain exemptions than, for example: religious schools and schools with alternative pedagogy, as also mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1919	There is no doubt that in the permanent law we will present to the Storing there will be exceptions for religious and pedagogical alternatives. It's always been very clear. The reason why we need some longer time to produce a permanent law is, just to use an example, that there is a greater degree of freedom of method in public schools. This means that there is a greater degree of pedagogical diversity within public schools. Designing a pedagogical alternative to pedagogical diversity is a process that will necessarily take a little longer. That's why it's necessary to do this in two steps, as we've informed the Size. The extent to which the derogation is to be applied during this freezing period, as proposed in the draft consultation, we will, on the part of the Ministry, propose a narrow interpretation of this. But of course there will be a process linked to this further, and in this process it is important from my point of view to ensure non-discrimination of this. It's an important premise in the lawwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1926	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to ask if the Council of State does not realize that it is inconsistent to suggest that it should be open – in fact, you say a tight opening – for some schools, for example. cross-border schools, while excluding schools that have been clearly said and which are now being repeated by the Council of State, are to be included in the future legislation. Would it not be most logical to also open schools on a religious basis and schools with alternative pedagogics to those who were covered by the exemption, and not quite others, once such opening has been given? We're talking here about schools that, after all, are based on parental rights and the Declaration of Human Rights. By adding up to a two- to three-year freeze period, it can be mentioned at the earliest — and at best — that such schools can be reestablished in 2008. Isn't this a pretty serious step?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1933	What we do is in line with what has been the government's pronounced policy before the elections and after the elections. The reason why we have to treat each other in a non-discriminatory way is because the law should treat everyone in a non-discriminatory way. That's the background for our draft law. In high school, 26 schools — according to memory — have been approved but do not have students and thus have to have a freeze period. 25 of these 26 schools are schools like John Bauer, the Academy or Sonans, and as far as I remember, there is only one school that is either a religious school or perhaps a school with a pedagogical alternative. That means that essentially the volume of the schools that we're going to stop is commercial schools, which I'm also going to assume that the Christian People's Party is concerned about the emergence of. In any case, I record that the local politicians and state politicians of the Christian People's Party have expressed deep concern that it is not possible to dimension a public education especially at secondary school level if all these commercial schools became established in the city centres. In the representative's own hometown, Trondheim, it had, among other things. led to the closure of Trondheim Cathedral School, which is our oldest academic institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1944	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Media has revealed that gas leakages in the oil industry have not been reported to the Petroleum Authority. Knowledge of leakages and accidents is very important in order to better prevent similar incidents. Increasingly improved safety work is also a prerequisite for oil extraction in new and more vulnerable areas. Therefore, better control procedures and a thorough investigation are needed to detect unreported accidents. What will the Council of State do to detect accidents and to improve HMS work in the oil sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1953	Initially, I would like to make it clear that the petroleum industry generally maintains a high level of health, environment and safety. Professional actors with a high level of care, good regulation and good reporting of adverse events and their follow-up are prerequisites for low injury rates, serious injury and low likelihood of major accident. Long-term commitment to developing new knowledge of risks and their transfer to prevention is another important contributor. Activities are also characterised by wide-ranging cooperation between the parties. Some of the positive changes in the HMS status of the enterprise show, among others: good dialogue and cooperation between the parties, as well as between the parties and the authorities, are important prerequisites for further development of the HMS level. In recent years, there has been a growing focus on the risk contribution from gas leaks on Norwegian soil, and in the summer of 2003 the authorities took an initiative towards industry in order to reduce the number. The Landsforening of the oil industry (OLF) started as a follow-up to a project with the aim of reducing the number of major leakages by 50 pst. by the end of 2005, measured against the average over the period 2000 to 2002. This project focuses on management exposure, behaviour and measures to improve the competence of those involved in the activities. The review of technical conditions of devices and greater attention to potential sources of leakage have also helped to achieve the objective. The results of the project show that the 50 pst reduction target. the industry has set up a new and ambitious reduction target. This means that the number of major gas leaks shall be reduced by a further 50 pst. by the end of 2008. I consider such an effort to be a valuable contribution to improving the level of risk on the Norwegian base. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of all parties having a continuous focus on key issues and working together to find good solutions. In some cases, non-warning or notification has resulted in the absence of follow-up or investigation by the authorities. In view of this, in 2004 the Petroleum Control Authority instructed each company to assess its procedures and management systems with regard to the warning and notification of hazardous and accident situations. Transparency and information on adverse events are a vital prerequisite in this area, as well as in other areas. It is therefore important that all parties work systematically and in the long term to further develop the necessary transparency and trust. Recently, allegations of under-reporting events in the petroleum industry have been made. These are aspects that the Petroleum Control now follows up in cooperation with the industry’s partners. The alleged cases of events that have not been reported are further investigated and the circumstances of causality clarified. Nevertheless, the Petroleum Authority says that it is unlikely that major gas leaks will not become part of the public. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the new major health, environmental and safety message to be submitted to the Stortinget in the spring session. A thorough status of the state of HMS in Norwegian petroleum activities will be provided, while pointing to a number of necessary measures to further develop the level of HMS.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1972	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. My challenge to the Council of State concerns the need for a thorough investigation of accidents in the oil sector. The risk of injury is high when accidents occur in this industry. Therefore, it is important, not least for prevention purposes, to identify causes and course of events in a complementary way. The Nopef trades union reports that today's police research practice is making a lot of people afraid to tell them everything they know. Therefore, NOPEF recommends the establishment of a review commission following the model of the Aviation Commission. Such a Commission could focus more on detection for prevention purposes than the police who enforce criminal law. How does the Council of State consider the proposal to set up a separate investigation commission for the oil sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1983	As I said in my reply, we are now working on a major health, environmental and safety message. I'm familiar with that, for example. NOPEF has been dealing with these issues. At the same time, the government is making an overall assessment of the amount of investigation commissions, and I know that the Minister of Justice has an assessment of whether we can see part of these commissions in the context. We will conclude and come back to this whole issue in connection with the HMS message. I choose here and now to tell the representative Woie Duesund that we are aware that this is a problem, and we will come back with a position in this way when we submit the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1990	I would like to thank you again for your answer. At the same time, I want to take the opportunity to focus on the alerts. In the opinion of my Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party, there is a need for a reinforced legal protection for employees who report critical business conditions that it is important for our society to know. We believe that when the alerts meet with notice from the employer, the termination should be considered invalid, unless the employer can prove that the termination is due to circumstances other than the warning itself. For example, a corresponding burden of proof rule applies. in the case of termination during maternity leave and sickness. Will the Council of State make a proposal to the Grand Government that follows this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e1997	From the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion, we will promote a legislative proposal for the Storting in ours, where we address the question of the status of alerts in the Working Environment Act, precisely from the point of view of providing alerts with a legal protection that is better than today – if I cannot do exactly what the representative Woie Duesund describes a possible legal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2006	‘Incarceration staff in Norwegian prisons are being subjected to ever more serious violence and threats from prisoners, and drug trafficking within the walls is very well organised. What concrete initiatives will the Council of State take to address this unsustainable situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2013	It may be possible to discuss developments and the issue of the extent and extent of this problem, but it is affordable to address this, because a single offence in prison, a single offence in the area of drug use, is too much. Since 2001, the educational centre of criminal services has recorded and analysed all reported incidents of violence and threats to staff members in the criminal justice system. Based on the information obtained from this material, there does not appear to be an increasing level of physical violence and threats on the part of persons in criminal custody. I trust that criminal services will follow up these reports with concrete measures where necessary. In order to combat violence and threats, a new security strategy to last from 2006 to 2010 will be completed in these days. In addition, cooperation with the police has been strengthened. I believe that these measures will contribute to increased security for staff in criminal matters as well. The research foundation Fafo carried out a survey on the living conditions of prisoners in 2004. It showed that 60 pst. Of all those entering prison, there is a drug problem. Most of these used drugs daily in the month before they were introduced, mainly opiates and stimulants. There is a strong effort to limit the use and trafficking of drugs in Norwegian prisons. In 2004, there were 11,019 insertions in total. A total of 24 000 urine tests were carried out. About 90 pst. These were negative, so illicit drug consumption could not be detected. The urine test also deals with prisoners who have been on leave. In addition to the urine tests, the search is carried out with drug dogs. In recent years, criminal services have increased the number of dog equipasses from 10 to 12. In 2004, 611 seizures of drugs — drugs and tablets were made. The vast majority of seizures were user doses. Crime prevention has also started to increase the physical safety of prisons with a low level of security. Several of these were previously used for the reconciliation of pro-millionaires. There is a need to strengthen the physical safety of these prisons in order to manage people with drug problems in a good way. In addition, cooperation with other agencies has been strengthened to facilitate the treatment of drug problems during prison, during the release phase and in society after the end of criminal proceedings. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are now in the final phase of working on a joint circular. The cooperation round table shall ensure that prisoners and convicted drug users in need of treatment and social services receive better follow-up during detention, during the release phase and out into society after an end to criminalisation. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that my goal is to have a good security for everyone in criminal matters. We must avert crime, prevent escape and secure society, but at the same time we must take good care of those who show the ability and will to rehabilitate. Such differentiation in the treatment of prisoners is therefore a primary objective for me and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2034	I thank you for the answer, and especially for the offensive attitude towards rehabilitation and increased cooperation. The structural conditions in some prisons, not least in central prisons, make it difficult to control visitors, which is one of the ‘main entry’ years for drugs in prisons. The situation is also, as I have been told, that the use of a drug dog could be more frequent. It is an important tool to detect drugs. The dog marks any findings in a gentle manner, and it can be done in view of both prisoners and visitors. But the question is whether this possibility is sufficiently exploited. Is the Council of State of the opinion that the use of drug dogs should be increased in the coming years and will it take the initiative to expand a highly effective system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2043	As I said in my answer, dog use has already expanded. I cannot exclude that more use of such instruments will be relevant. That's what the representative says, a very effective way to detect drugs. Yesterday, I visited Gjøvik Prison and West Slider Prison, and what is urgent now in these and other prisons is filling the ransom with content. I believe that this could dampen demand in relation to drug use. The efforts now made by the Government in relation to education, health, library services and culture, including: in the current year’s budget, is crucial in terms of drug use in prisons. I'm sorry to say that the employees I met both at Gjøvik and in Vestre Slidre, show that you're doing a very good job in terms of revealing, in the middle man. Dogs are good, but it is also important that we have good staff, which ensures that you are awake in relation to what is happening – that you have contact officer arrangements that work. The visit in these two prisons showed that there is already a significant and good job being done in the field of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2050	It is right that dog hunting should be covered by all regions and extended from 10 to 12. But the question that I get to travel some places I visit is whether you can afford to use this enough, for example. the availability of a drug dog. I'm standing here with the last release note, and in the region east, it's assumed that 400 searches are to be carried out this year, compared to 657 last year. That's a reduction of 40 pst. Although there is a more active policy on rehabilitation and getting back to society, the question of 40 pst. reduction is a reduction by which the Council of State will be aware and considered sufficient. A brief question about urine samples: Will it be considered to carry out a so-called rapid test where recognition of drug use is available? It would be a more cost-effective way of using urine samples in relation to the absence of recognition of actual conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2057	This is to the extent a good input, which I will take with me to the Department and to the Criminal Service. I am not aware that there should be such a drastic reduction in dog use as the representative now sketches. We'll look at this, especially considering that the number of dog equipasses has increased, and especially in the light of the fact that this is a positive tool, which the representative has also been involved in. Overall, it will be enough for criminal services in the whole country to increase the use of these dogs. It would be pointless with an opposite trend. I would like to point out again that we can quickly stare at instruments that go into control at the moment, and forget what's behind them. We must have both thoughts in our heads at once. As for the idea and the recording in relation to urine tests in cases where there is a recognised use, I will take it with me to see if there can be a possible strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2097	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2105	This question, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2108	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions that will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion: «In Bærum, according to the Aftenposten, a 5-year residence period is required to evaluate the application for care from the municipality. So people who want to move to Bærum can be rejected with a background of care needs. At Tabloid on 8 February we also heard about a municipality that refused to accept a user with care needs. Carers do not have the right to settle in Norway. What measures will the Council of State take to ensure the right of users to choose their place of residence in accordance with Section 10-1 of the Social Services Act and Section 2-1 of the Local Health Act?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2117	All citizens of Norway have the right to reside in the municipality they want. This starting point should not be in doubt. The question is, however, what real opportunities a caregiver has to choose which municipality he wants to live in. Both the Social Services Act and the Local Health Act provide people with a right of assistance to services in the municipality in which they live or are temporarily resident. In addition, the municipality has an obligation to process applications for services for highly nurturing from other municipalities if the applicants wish to move to the municipality. This can be seen in a separate circular that all municipalities have received. The aim is to ensure that citizens who need extensive services can move to a municipality that has organised a proper service offer from the time of the move. A requirement for the application not to be dealt with before being in the municipality would actually lead to a reduced possibility for this group to choose the municipality of residence. The municipality's obligation applies initially where there is a real desire to move to the municipality. It is doubtful whether the municipality is obliged to process applications which have obviously been sent for the purpose of monitoring the services offered by several municipalities, in order to choose a new municipality of residence based on what individual municipalities offer. Bærum municipality is obliged to provide statutory services irrespective of residence in the municipality. The obligation applies to services, not to specific forms of residence, unless it concerns an application for a legally imposed comprehensive housing and service provision, for example a nursing home. The municipality cannot reject applications for health and social services to any resident on grounds of lack of living in the municipality. This is also true, of course, in relation to those who are in great need of care who want to move to the municipality. The municipality of Bærum has, after I have been informed, set the conditions for the allocation of nursing homes. The provision of nursing homes is not a statutory service that the municipality is obliged to provide under the Social Services Act or the Local Health Service Act. Care homes are municipal rental homes which are offered as an additional service to the municipality's statutory tasks. Dwellings are funded with grants from the House Bank, which lays down conditions for housing to be used for care purposes. In addition, the municipality may attach additional conditions to the allocation of such dwellings. The condition that is often applied is that applicants must be over a certain age in order to receive such accommodation. Such conditionality has not until now been perceived as discriminatory but as a result of a targeted local policy. The government initially believes that the municipality must have the freedom to target the award of non-statutory offers. Nursing homes are such a voluntary offer. However, the development of municipal care is in the direction of the provision of housing for care to replace statutory housing and services. In this context, it is unfortunate that municipalities impose stricter conditions for the award of nursing homes. The government believes that Bærum's practice violates the intention to reside in the municipality you want. If the municipalities themselves do not see the unfairness of the use of such conditions, the Government will consider changes to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2132	I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for a thorough and good answer. It calms me that if the municipalities don't change their practice, they will actually get involved. This is important for this group, which should also have the right to move around Norway, for example. because family and relatives are also moving. This is important to put in place, all the time you actually see that some municipalities, among other things. redefine nursing homes. Then you can easily get a misalignment, so that a group of people with a need for care gets into disrepute. I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Furthermore, I wonder if the Council of State can say a little bit more about the time perspective. When will the Council of State possibly follow this up with the municipality of Bærum, so that we can change this practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2141	I very much agree with the representative Nesvik. What we see is a development in the care sector that is moving towards the development of nursing homes for more and more extensive care services. After all, a large number of municipalities choose to build care homes instead of e.g. nursing home. This means that care homes have to be considered in the light of developments in the care sector as a whole, and it is important to look at the practice exercised in relation to the intentions of the right of residence in the municipality you want to live in. We will now follow this up with the municipality of Bærum, and then it remains to see what the municipality of Bærum does. In the wake of that, we will have to take a decision on our further work. It's very difficult for me to specify some time perspective on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2148	I will not tolerate this much longer than thanking for the answer. On behalf of those patients who actually need this service – including those with a lot of help needs – I look forward to this being sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2157	‘In the 2006 government budget, the Government decided to continue the waiting pay system for government employees. The scheme has been used in practice to push older workers out of work. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 15 January several waiters appeared and told them that they felt that the system was unworthy, that they were parked on a siding, and even that their lives were ruined. What senior policy measures will the Council of State take to compensate for the negative impact of the continuation of the waiting wage system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2164	The government's forward-looking pay system has a history of financial security for its members and a robust framework for conversion. The service-responsible arrangements for maintenance and prioritising the state position have been used as a tool to ensure a greater degree of integration of the conversion processes and to contribute to the greater involvement of their organisations. The statistics show that there is a relatively high number of older people who receive a waiting wage compared to those who receive a daily allowance. This may indicate that the schemes meet the need for financial security for the elderly. At the same time, it poses a risk of «locking in» in a social welfare situation. As the representative Holmberg probably knows from the media in the last few days, older people often encounter negative attitudes when looking for a job. A study conducted by the MMI for Senior Policy Centres shows that half of Norwegian leaders would not even assess a job seeker who has less than ten years left of his professional career. I mean that's the number we can't live with. Now the state did not get in any way the worst in that investigation. But it's quite obvious that we're going to get our seniors to work, whether they're on a waiting salary or on ordinary day money – and we need them in work in the nation of Norway – then we have a job to do with employers when it's a matter of seniority: it must by no means be disqualifying to be 57 years when a search announces the options. It is both a challenge that I as a government employer have to take on behalf of the Government, and it is not least a challenge that the whole of the world of work must face, both in the private sector and in the municipal sector. When it comes to the specific question of what I would like to do to compensate for any negative effects of the waiting pay scheme, I would like to note that I have already informed the Storting that I want to start a new review of the service provider's law. It's a work I'm going to do with the organizations. In the context of that review, the waiting pay scheme will also be assessed and any negative consequences of the current waiting wage scheme will have to be on the table and discussed. Then I would like to stress that to meet the conditions for receiving a waiting salary, a real job seeker has to be. If not, the right to wait is lost for a period. It is Aetat who is responsible for and obliged to follow it up. So, as I said, I have started a series of actions. We are now working in the context of concreteising the objective of the IA work so that both the state as an employer and not least the general working life should focus on the seniors. It should not be the case that the seniors have to go, either it is the country to be converted or there are other enterprises to be converted. The previous government has the same responsibility as the current government, linked to the changes that have been made in the state sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2181	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We can probably agree that it's not negative to be 57 years old and should be out of work. I still want to express my surprise that this matter is so low in priorities, and that the new government has so far talked so little about it. Senior policy is important. It's important for the individual human being, and it's important for our country. Not least, it is important to stress it on the basis of the spontaneous question-time we had today, where the Minister of Industry said that we have ‘the labour force we have in this country’. If we can't be more constructive than looking at the staff we have in the country per year. Today, we must at least expect the Government to immediately put on the table a series of measures to get the seniors out of work. Continuing the waiting wage system is the reversal of a policy. Then the question is asked again: When will the government take up the work of being constructive and get more of the older garden into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2190	It took the government from one day to the next. If there's something we've really been working on, that's it. Among other things, we went right into the work of setting up a new IA agreement. The previous period of the IA agreement was aimed at increasing our take-off age. So under the bourgeois government, we had a reduced retirement age in the world of work. This means that the previous government had a significant responsibility for having a low retirement age in the general working life today. We've said that we have to have a goal, and in the state we've managed to flatten this out. Now, the goal is to make your departure age go up. We have a number of actions going on. The Minister of Health and Welfare is working on a major report on senior policy. As a government employer, I have seen a number of measures being taken, including: on skills development, where one obliges the leaders of the country, through human resources, to work with skills, not only when people have become retired, but through a whole professional life, so that one is still attractive in the labour market either 57 or 62 years of age. This is particularly true in relation to data training. A quarter of the state's pensioners report a new computer program as a reason to get rid of the AFP. We are now working on special data training for all the seniors in the department and underlying etats, among other things. to ensure that there is no lack of skills in this area as a reason for the death of our senior citizens. There are a number of measures going on, and on the way to getting started, so this is something we work with every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2197	The Council of State mentioned in its first response that one would go through the waiting pay system one more time. That's why I want to get back to the system that you've now passed on. When the Bondevik II government wanted to remove the waiting pay system, it was in order to ensure equal treatment of workers in the work environment law and the Civil Service Act. But what happened then was that the government employees' organisations showed strong pressure, and there was great resistance. The red-green government has just taken this into account and therefore continued the waiting pay system, which in my view is not a constructive solution. Then my question is now when you are faced with a new review: Will the government continue to pay more attention to LO this time than to the best of the country and to the best of its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2204	We're constantly keeping away from various representatives here at Stortinget that we're taking care of LO in everything. We have a cooperation with the organisations that the Government attaches great importance to. One of the advantages in Norwegian business and Norwegian working life is that we have tidy working conditions. We have good contact with the employer's website, and we have good contact with the employee's page, it's LO, UNIO, YS – all the organisations. And I'm also going to focus on that in relation to the work that we're going to do. I work with all four government organizations in connection with the review of the service law that I have notified, which the previous government did not, because they did cut off without including the organisations in the entire work. What we're going to be clear about is that the maintenance and preference arrangements have been negotiated on the basis of a wish from the state that we should have them added to important adjustments that the state needs to make, while the previous government just cut a processed right, without having a dialogue with the parties at all in advance. We intend to engage in dialogue with all parties, and hope to come out with a service staff law that is up-to-date and good for both employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2213	The last question, but not least an important one, goes to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and is not about fish, which is important enough, but about sailing routes to Bergen, which is at least equally important: ‘When Ashøybrua was built in Hordaland, it was a prerequisite that alternative routes without a height limit of 62 metres should also be built to Bergen port. The sea level of the bridge limits both business activities at Bergen Yards and, to a significant extent, cruise routes to Bergen port, which is one of Europe’s largest cruise ports. The bridge has been fully disbursed with tolls at the end of 2006. New sailing lanes have not begun. What will the Council of State do to implement the construction of a new route to Bergen, as the Stortinget has foreseen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2222	When the main plan for Askøybrua was approved by the Road Directorate on September 24, 1986, there was a solution on the bridge height of 62 metres and an alternative sailing path over the Herdlaflaket. The approval of bridge height by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry according to the Master Plan was granted on 12 January 1990. Of the conditions that were imposed, among other things: an alternative sailing trail over Herdlaflaket. In St. prp. No 1 for 1994-95 by the Ministry of Transport, it is proposed not to excavate the Herdlaflaket sailing trail in the light of protection interests. The size had no comments on it. The board of industry in Bergen and Bergen and Omland Havnevesen took the initiative in a pilot project to investigate alternative shipping links via Skjelangersundet. This contained some unexplained conditions. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs therefore decided in 2002 to develop a more comprehensive pre-project. The assignment was given to the Coastal Works, which, in cooperation with the municipality of Bergen, Hordaland County Municipality and Bergen and Omland Portevesen, developed a comprehensive project. The report was issued in March 2004. The cost is estimated to be around 180 million. kr. In St. prp. No 1 for 2004–2005 by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, it was informed that the Swedish Coastal Agency would assess the project alternative trajectory to Bergen port towards other projects in the context of the development of the Coastal Authority’s action programme on the follow-up to the National Transport Plan for 2006–2015. In St. prp. No 1 for 2005–2006 by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, it has been explained that the Swedish Coastal Agency has assessed this project against other projects. The coastal works consider that, on the basis of an overall assessment, there is no basis for prioritising this project now, as there are other projects which should have a higher priority. The Ministry agreed to this assessment when the budget for this year was created. However, it is noted that the project has to be assessed in line with traffic developments and the size of the ships that may be involved in calls at the port of Bergen. On this basis, I believe that the Stortinget has been presented with the various assessments made in connection with changes to the plans for the development of the Herdlaflaket as well as alternative sailing routes via Skelelangersundet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2235	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite right that after a very long time, we have received an impact assessment on the cost of sailing through Skelelangersundet – thankfully, a much lower cost than what has been suggested for a number of years. It is the case that the Storting has not removed the prerequisite for the construction of the bridge, which has almost been paid down, namely that we should have an alternative sailing trail without altitude limitation. In a short time, the world’s two largest Cruiseeries will operate 16 new ships, all of which have a sailing altitude above 63 metres. It's being built violently in the cruise industry, it's a growing industry. The last example we know from the media for a little while back, concerns Aker Yards, who is now building a large new ship with a capacity of 6000 passengers and a sailing height of 74 metres. Does the Council of State see that the entrance to Bergen with height limits for more and more of the largest and most recent cruise ships represents a barrier to the development of tourism and cruise traffic in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2248	As the world changes, so do we. However, with regard to the priorities of this project within the current framework, the Stortinge has joined the assessments made by the Coastal Agency and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs under different political direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2253	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State itself has pointed to the wording of the Ministry of Fisheries's budget proposal on page 119, and I quote: ‘However, the project must be assessed in line with traffic developments and the size of the ships that may be relevant to the arrival of Bergen port.’» It is that traffic trends are strong, ships are increasing, and they are also getting higher. So it's a new and enhanced development since it was written. State Council will take a new initiative to get this project up and down? Will the Council of State ally with former councillor Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen, who in his leadership was an avid champion for Bergen to get this sailing trail in place? I hope it can be a support to the Council of State in the implementation of this project, which obviously has to be financed by the state, because it is too late to bring the bill to those who have now paid down the bridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2267	I just want to repeat that the Government will follow developments. We have one pot of money at our disposal, and then we have to evaluate the different projects against each other based on the money we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-15.ana.ud1522e2272	This was the last question in the ordinary Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 1 over. There are no more items on the agenda.
