ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e24	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Siri A. Meling, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative Ib Thomsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e40	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on enhanced requirements for the independence of auditors in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e45	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e69	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug Hagastatsråd Bjarne Håkon HanssenState Council Karita Bekkemelm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Robert Eriksson. The president wants to ask the representatives who are advertised for follow-up questions, to move down to the sides here, so you save time when it's time to get to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e90	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. On repeated occasions, the government has promised to reduce poverty. Today, we have 246,000 minimum pensioners, who, according to the Pensioners' Association, have income below what is defined as the poverty line. There is little doubt that the economic everyday life and living conditions of many minimum pensioners are difficult. I have myself received a number of enquiries from the minimum pensioners who say that they have such a hard time financially that they do not have the opportunity to go to a dentist, pick up prescription medications at the pharmacy, eat dinner every day, buy Christmas presents for children and grandchildren or have some sort of distraction, such as coffee visits and holidays, as we others take for granted. The Progress Party believes that many of today's minimum pensioners live an unworthy life and have an unworthy economic everyday life. That is why we have proposed, on several occasions, inter alia: to increase the minimum pension. The Progress Party believes that the past efforts of pensioners in society must not be forgotten. Many may suggest that the government has just forgotten it. The government’s new proposals for pension reform will lead to a reduction in the minimum pension rate. It is also documented by Professor of Social Security at the University of Oslo Bjørgulf Claussen. Does the Council of State really think that it is worth the majority of the minimum pensioners living below the poverty line? And what will the Council of State do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e103	It is an important topic that the representative addresses. My answer must first of all go in the direction that the main act of the Government will be to make changes to the pension system in relation to the problem of the minimum pension trap, which I will be concerned with calling it. We can start the work to make sure that it disappears. The real dilemma of today’s pension system is that a lot of people have worked a lot, especially women – they may have started late in working life, they have worked a lot, but perhaps not full time. Then we see that today's pension system is designed to make you, however, the minimum pensioner, even if you have paid over the year for an additional pension in social security. The big, important move to do something about changing the pension system, so that in the future we will have a pension scheme in which to ensure that what I call the minimum pension traps will be liquidated. The government has recently provided a big message where we are just taking the steps that will prevent us from getting such a minimum pension trap in the future. The new popular peace model is about earning money from the first crown. All the earnings count. You get earned if you have absences from work related to care, and you get earned if you have absences from work related to protective duties. This means that if you are to become a minimum pensioner with the future pension system, you must not have worked one day, you must not have had any care tasks, and you must not have been in the military. Those who then become minimum pensioners, I think it's right to become minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e112	I thank you for your answer. It is interesting when the Council of State mentions the new pension reform. As I said, Professor of Social Security, Bjørgulf Claussen recently stated that the new pension reform will lead to an increase in poverty. If the Government aims to reduce poverty, it cannot keep the minimum pensions as small as they are added up to, he says. He's also gone through and calculated this, and looked at different numbers. It is true that a good part of the reform will also have an impact on those who are the minimum pensioners today — the increase in the pension rate will be reduced by average wage and price increases in relation to the system today. If you take this into account, as the professor points out, a cut like that put up in the new reform will give you a pension of $91,000 based on today's value. That is, every minimum pensioner will be poor, no matter what definition you put on. Does the Council of State consider that there is a worthwhile income for the country's minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e121	Firstly, it is interesting that there is a representative from the Progress Party who addresses this question. It will be exciting to see what eventually becomes the pension model of the Progress Party. So far, the Progress Party has put itself on a model that is about making everyone the minimum pensioner, so that the contribution of popular interest is such that everyone only gets a basic pension from the state, and then you have to take responsibility for supplementary pensions. To the extent that someone should feel struck by attacks from other parties, I have not perceived it differently than that the last party that should promote that criticism is the Progress Party. However, it is important to say that the pension reform is based on the assumption that a minimum pension should be regulated in line with wage developments. There is no index-based regulation of the minimum pension – i.e. a mix of pay and price – but the starting point for the regulation of the minimum pension should also be wage developments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e128	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e131	There are many things that may feel unreasonable to those who are pensioners, among other things. the fact that combining work and social security is very difficult and often very unprofitable. In addition, we know that the government is now making it considerably more expensive for employers to employ older workers, because there is a dramatic increase in the employer’s pay for them over 62 years. The labour supply is already the largest scarcity factor in the Norwegian economy. There is a urgent need for action that can have an effect quickly. Therefore, the Government will receive an excellent proposal from the Right. Today, those who have reached the age of 67 and who continue to have health and a desire to work are punished with a triple report until they reach the age of 70 – with top taxes, full social security contributions and, in addition, a curtailment of the pension. Therefore, the right will propose to liquidate this abbreviation for them between 67 and 70 years. It will make working more profitable, Norway will have more labour, and many older people will be able to use their skills for themselves and society — almost a Kinder Egg, three things at a time. Would the Government support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e138	The right has been in government for four years and had the opportunity to promote this proposal, without having done so. Now I see in the newspapers that the Right in opposition is now planning to promote it. It is important for me to say that the Government wants to see all the proposals before it takes a position on them – so we will go through the proposal when it is promoted. This is an attempt to give a positive answer, in the sense that I will not here and now reject a proposal that has not yet been promoted in the Storting. We're going to go into it and look at the benefits and disadvantages. I believe that the Government and the Right in principle agree very much that we need to create a pension system with much greater flexibility. That is why I believe that the main thrust of the pension reform is that one in the future can combine work and retirement fully, with full flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e144	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e147	I think a lot of people are happy to hear that the government says to drop the minimum pension trap, as has been said by the Council of State in many ways. The jumping point is maybe what pensioners will be left with to the seventh and last-- the sum, not what we call the minimum pension, in case. For many, not least for pensioners, owning a home is a great asset, and what the boutet poisons are is of great importance to what you are left with at last. After all, the government has made sure that the tax on wealth is increasing sharply for pensioners. 63 pst. of the country's minimum pensioners actually pay taxes on wealth, and 20 pst. increase of two years means much too many. So my question is, will the government, and the council, work to ensure that the pensioners, especially the minimum pensioners, can also get out of that retirement trap?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e154	I could have gone into a debate about the wealth tax in many forums. But I want to reserve myself against going into that debate, because I believe that all the questions relating to the tax system and the tax policy must be asked to the Council of State responsible for it. I therefore do not choose to go into an argument for and against the property tax measures taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e159	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e162	We probably agree that today's pension system needs to be looked at, so that we also get fewer minimum pensioners, as the Council of State has been about. But I want to focus more on what is today's and not tomorrow's minimum pensioners. Today’s minimum pensioners now have in front of them a winter with increased electricity prices and have a housing tax that has increased for them in the same way. That's what's in many ways the point ahead. Is the Council willing to attend and look at a national pledge for today's minimum pensioners, as well as looking at tomorrow's minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e167	As I just said, I find it difficult for someone who does not have that responsibility in the government to participate in a debate on the tax system. That question, I think, must be addressed to the Minister of Finance. Issues related to high housing costs are also the responsibility of another State Council, which is present here. But I want to say that we have an emergency group in the government related to monitoring the development of power prices. If they are to turn out to be as bad as many have predicted, we must take action to help people, not least those with poor advice, to deal with the situation that arises, so that people do not freeze in their homes. Otherwise, it’s – once again – interesting to hear that there’s now a violent commitment from previous government parties to a raise for the minimum pensioners. In that case, there is a new commitment that is expressed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e176	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e179	The pension model of the Progress Party would provide a significant boost to the minimum pensioners. It's also quite familiar to most people, I think, that the Progress Party has been a driver for increasing the minimum pension, and not least for removing the abbreviation between married and cohabiting minimum pensioners. Governments talk a lot about the new pension reform and the minimum pension trap, but it does not help today's minimum pensioners, who have difficulties. Many of them go to the social office to receive supplementary support, and they need housing support. I would ask the Council of State to say specifically whether he will be involved in increasing the minimum pension or removing the shortening between married and cohabitant on the next pension settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e186	I first have to stress that as I have read the proposals from the representative of the Progress Party in the Pension Commission, and also the position of the Progress Party related to the handling of the Bondevik Government's pension message, it has been about a system that has a flat-rate pension for all. In my vocabulary one can then choose to formulate it in a different way, and that's that everyone should be the minimum pensioner. There is a dramatic difference between what the government is proposing, which is a system that is about giving supplementary pensions to all those who have had income. So one adds up to a system that stimulates work. That is why I think it is right for me to problem that the Progress Party, which is occupied by the minimum pensioners – that is to say, the party must have – is in principle in favour of a system in the future that will make everyone the minimum pensioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e191	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e194	Let me compliment Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on a well-being message that contains many good and sensible suggestions. Let me therefore stress that the present opposition in the Stortinget meets the Government with a completely different attitude from that expressed by Prime Minister Stoltenberg was the position of the previous opposition, namely to go against everything for the sake of sport. So now we can work together on a lot, and that makes a lot of sense in the message. It says, among other things: a very sensible way of communicating and meeting young social welfare recipients: with activation, with job search and with work training, in which we have good practical experience for real results, both for ethnic Nordics and for those whom we often call so beautiful our new countrymen, whom unfortunately there are too many of them both on social security and on various other forms of support. These tests include, inter alia: is provided for in the Labour and Welfare Administration Act, which opens up the possibility of carrying out so-called task differentiation attempts in municipalities. When Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was in opposition, he also participated in expressing strong support for this through Innst. S. No 198 for 2004-2005, where, inter alia: read: ‘This majority would stress the importance of such a framework agreement stimulating the testing of different cooperation models between the State body and the municipalities in view of the fact that the total instrument can be used in the most efficient way possible from the user’s point of view.’ But now the government's warning is that these attempts should be stopped when the period is over. Before the new NAV office is in place, for example: several parts of Oslo, as well as being well described in today's edition of the Newspaper, stop the trials. My question is, why stop something that works well, and works in line with the welfare message?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e209	It is an important question that the representative Foss is now addressing. First, I want – there is a limited time here – to start by answering that we agree that we should implement a NAV reform. The NAV reform is about both government and municipal authorities investing all their resources in a single office. Those who work in the office, regardless of whether they can delegate between themselves and freely dispose of these measures, with one exception, and there is a lasting disability. A person who has previously worked in the social office may in the future have the full opportunity to provide measures that are originally linked to the old Aetat. Where the money comes from, in the future it will be irrelevant, in the sense that it will be the community located in the NAV Office, which will decide what kind of action the individual user should have. And it's the user's needs that determine measures, not what kind of income insurance they have, and where the resources originally come from, whether they come from the state or from the municipality. So I hope that Foss and I agree that once we have rolled out the NAV reform, the debate on task differentiation becomes a little old-fashioned, in the sense that if the money comes directly from NAV to the NAV office, or from NAV via the municipality to the NAV office, it is not important. Then I agree with Per-Kristian Foss that there are some exciting attempts in Oslo – from which the whole NAV reform has taken a lot of inspiration – which is such that they are likely to be closed before the city section in question gets a NAV office. I have had a meeting with City Councillor Erling Lae, where I have said that if there are any urban areas that are in such an experimental situation and are likely to terminate the experiment before they get the NAV office, I am willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e218	I thank you for the answer, because I perceive this, despite a long introduction, as an outstretched hand, so that the urban areas that are now running trials on which there is a broad political consensus locally – no parties have opposed it – will continue the period until the NAV office is established. I understood the answer this way. So they have been notified of a halt in the trials at the end of 2007, or at the end of 2008 – there are a little different periods of time for the trials – but I now perceive the signal of the Council of State as different. I also see it as different from what is in the state budget. This is due to a change in policy. Because I agree with what the Council of State said, namely that these attempts locally have been the pattern of the NAV reform in many ways. This is how it should work: active, close follow-up and close contacts between what was previously a social office and is now part of the NAV Office, which is active in dissemination, qualification programmes, etc. So I see it as a concession that the tests can be passed on to a new NAV office.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e225	I'll try to be precise, because this is important. I have told Mayor Erling Lae that if there are attempts in urban areas in Oslo that will be completed before the same district has possibly received the NAV office, I am willing, on the initiative of the Municipality of Oslo, to look into continuing the experiment in the relevant districts. Initially, I am very positive about this, because I see that it is important that we do not get a stop during the trial period and then we should start again when the NAV office is in place. But then I think it's important to stress that as far as I know, subject to doubt, it's not 100 pst. identify the urban areas of Oslo that will have NAV offices in 2007. If Oslo has now decided, we can already respond to enquiries from the Municipality of Oslo. If it has not yet been decided, we will have to decide when it is decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e232	There will be three follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e235	The government has said on several occasions that the most important thing about NAV was to get more people to work and fewer to work. At the same time, it has also been seen in the welfare communication that time is needed to get qualified social welfare beneficiaries to go out to work. As Foss points out, there are some places in Oslo where one has tried, and in the cases has also tried very positively. Social assistance recipients have been given back and forth to work. Can the Council of State guarantee that the ongoing trials will continue? And will the Council consider extending this pilot scheme, when it is as successful as it is, and when it reaches the goal of getting these social welfare beneficiaries into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e242	As far as I know, the cases are one of the districts that have established the NAV office. There are two urban areas in Oslo that set up the NAV office this year. The cases are as far as I remember one of those neighborhoods. There we are in the situation that you have a community, consisting of those who worked in Aetat before, and those who worked in the Social Security and Social Security Office. It is then possible to place all these resources in the NAV-Reform in the NAV-Office. So with the kind of experience you gained from the project on the Sagens – which I know very well, and which I think has inspired both myself and former government councils with my responsibility – it can be completely possible within the NAV reform not to run an experiment, but to run the business that has happened on the Sagens, as a permanent arrangement. But that means that the municipality of Oslo will also add the delegation opportunities that lie within the NAV system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e247	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e250	I would like to compliment the Council of State on the offensive way in which he continues the reform of labour and welfare management, both in terms of the organisation that we are now talking about, and in terms of all the arrangements that need to be coordinated and directed much more towards getting people from passiveness into work or other activity. What is my concern about this reform is that some of the purpose was to tear down the walls between the employment offices, social security offices and social security offices, and to make sure that the focus is on the individual person and not on the systems. I think that I see a lot of leads when I'm out traveling, that a person organizes the business very after old shots, that's NAV/work. We also see that the municipalities, which are a very important partner here, are somewhat lagging behind in this major cultural change process. How does the Council of State assess the potential for success in the significant cultural change he has launched?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e257	Yes, the Højbråt points here to the core of the NAV challenge. I believe that we are doing a great deal in common, both in position and in opposition, to facilitate. But the moment of truth is what happens out there. What is really affected by the two previous questions as well is getting to this NAV office where one gets to tear the walls. It's a little about changing the people's rights law and stuff like that, but it's also about making an agreement between the state and the municipality in each municipality. At that time, not least the local municipality must also be prepared to grant a wide range of powers in its budget and its system to the NAV Office, and the State must do so in the same way. I've told the state we're going to give authority and delegate. But it is clear that we can experience that many municipalities are skeptical, and then I think we are going to have to get to some good offices that work properly, so that we can gradually adjust cooperation agreements that may not work well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e262	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e265	It's a time for battle and a time for praise. I would like to say to the Council of State that on the left, we are pleased that the Council of State has raised the idea of welfare contracts, in order to have dignity and respect in its life, through the NAV reform. We call it a citizen's salary, some call it guaranteed minimum income. But we meet in dignity. Then, as a representative of the City of Oslo, I would like to say that I am pleased that we have a council of states that is now actually going to have a dialogue with the city's management, as it turned out in the reply to the representative Foss, and not try to act as an extra municipal government for Oslo, even if you don't necessarily agree with the policy being pursued in the city. That line has previously been expressed by the Council of State in an inter-pelling debate where I took up integration policy, and the Council of State is continuing it. It's a line we're basically on often in Norway, because when we can find the arenas for community, we're building something that's important together. And when we have a fight, we have room for that. Building the cultural change that the Council of State is now talking about in the case of NAV, that is, not just tearing down the walls, but mentally filling in the image between the senses, it's a difficult cultural job. I'd like to hear the council talk more about it, because it was exciting when he started talking about it instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e275	Thank you for your words. I must admit to remembering a past on the opposite pulpit where I wasn't always as good at it. That's why I notice it when it comes. What is our challenge is that we should build a new NAV culture that is not based on the culture that was in the old social security system, not on the old culture that was in Aetat, nor on the culture that was in the old social services. Now we have to build the new common NAV culture. I think the Højbrätt said well when he said that there is a culture that should be less concerned with rules and arrangements and more concerned with the user's needs, where the case handlers literally have to get their noses up from the rulebook and their eyes up on the user. Then we have to dry down to give them flexibility, dry to relieve the rules so that they can tailor the packages that the user needs, that is to say, build down the rules for the benefit of the user perspective. It's easy to say, but it's hard to do, but we're going to try everything we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e282	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e285	I also have a question for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. The Christian People's Party is concerned that children should not grow up in asylum recipients. The Storting said in June that we should have a new legislation specialising in the care of children, which focuses on children's living time and ties with the kingdom. Furthermore, the majority said that we should not coerce any children who could be expected to receive new treatment under the new rules. This clarified the Council of State in the autumn in a separate press release; no children are to be sent out pending a new legislation specialising in the treatment of children. Nevertheless, last week we experienced that two small boys were sent from Stokmarknes to Kosovo. Fortunately, the foreign authorities changed the decision the same day, so the case ended well, and the boys were sent back to Stokmarknes. This thing ended well. They'll have a new assessment. Can the Council of State guarantee that no more children will experience forced dispatch now before the new rules are in place? And then the boys were picked up and were to be sent out of the country in the middle of the night. Can a really treat a child like that? What will the Council of State do with the way in which two minors are treated, or does the Council of State think that we should continue to risk having such a course of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e298	It was a Document No. Eight proposals – it was called in the past, it is now called representative proposals – from among others. Bjørg Tørresdal and Jon Lilletun, it was well, which was the starting point for the policy change we are now implementing in this area. I agree with the way Tørresdal describes it, that in the future children's living time in Norway should be given greater weight, and children's situation should be given greater weight in the management of foreigners. There we now have a proposal for a new regulation out at the hearing. The consultation round is now either just concluded or soon concluded. Then we're going to review the hearing opinions with a view to implementing the regulation for the spring. What I have done then is that I have asked UNE to put all matters at risk for children who have lived for more than three years in Norway. It is certain that the future regulation will not go on for three years, but in order to identify a possible target group, we have done so. UNE has said that it means that their starting point is that there should be no forced transmission of children within that group. So we saw, as Tørresdal says, that something happened last week related to two kids from Kosovo. When we discovered it, there was immediate contact from our side with UNE, where we clarified the letter I had sent to UNE. This led to our turning around, and the boys got returned – I think it was in Bulgaria that we managed to stop them. The starting point, of course, is that this shouldn't happen, and that's why we also intervened.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e307	I thank you for your answer. I just have to be allowed to comment: we still must not send children out at night. Whether they are refused or not, a child must be treated as a child. In the course of this extension, Rogaland Avis had a headline on Monday saying, ‘No one wants to have flights.’ It is about refugees who have been granted a residence permit in Norway but who remain on asylum reception because it is today that it is voluntary for municipalities to accept. Some stay if they have a disability or other health problems. The size has said that no one should be more than six months in the reception. What was the example of Rogaland Avis was one who had been in reception for several years after receiving a residence permit. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this vulnerable group also has a decent stay in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e314	I did not get the time to say that I agree that we must have a dialogue with the police that broadcasts as happened in Stokmarknes, we must avoid as far as possible. So to the second question. My position on this is that it's obvious that we're not doing any good on the part of the state to make our grant systems work. Above my budget, we will provide an integration grant that will in principle be sufficient to accommodate the municipalities. Then we have a challenge with regard to disabled children. There is a system of grants, which is probably located in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, in order to deal with the costs of cost-intensive users. As a result, my deposit – that is, the grant from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion – disappears. And I don't think it's possible to have a system like this, because it means that we don't have people with disabilities, whether they're children or adults. So I'm set to engage in a dialogue in the Government with a view to making this grant system work better, and so make the housing even for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e323	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e326	I have a follow-up question to the Council of State. In 1994, the UN proposes, in 2000, and in 2005 the UN urges Norway to ensure adequate support and supervision for lone minor asylum seekers. So far, yesterday we got the first NGOU – there are 15 voluntary teams and organisations who, in cooperation with the Children’s Ombudsman, have developed it and investigated how asylum seekers are receiving it. Does the Council intend to ensure that the lone asylum seekers are now also subject to the law applicable to all children in Norway, namely the Child Protection Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e333	I would like to say that there is a great deal of attention attached to the question raised by the representative. We also see that there is a great deal of commitment from different organisations in this field. Therefore, it has been important for the Government to start work on transferring responsibility for this group to child protection. But we also see that this is a matter with great consequences. We could not transfer responsibility within two months. We had to do a thorough preparatory work in order to have a transfer to child protection, which just ensures these children a qualitatively better offer. The whole purpose of transferring the children to child protection is that these children are properly followed up. We know that this group is very complex; there are many different types of children in this group who need different types of help and treatment. I can tell the representative that we are in the process of working, but we have not found in the next year's budget to be able to meet financially at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e338	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e341	My follow-up question goes to State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Things that concern children, children who have been in Norway for a long time, are matters that we are going to take most seriously. All children deserve a good and worthy childhood, and they must have the best possible relationships. It is not desirable to get into all the situations we have seen in our country with regard to children who have had to spend a long time in asylum recipients, children who have been in unsafe conditions in Norway for a long time. There are two things I want to draw. One is the time for proceedings, and the other is the time for appeal. We know that in our country we have a number of appeals. You anchor, and you anchor again. In the past, the Council of State has gone out and said that he wants to reduce the appeals, and then my question becomes to the Council of State: What will the Council of State do to further reduce the usual procedure time? And what will the Council of State do to reduce all the opportunities you have to appeal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e351	The first part of the question is the simplest. The trial period is very often about resources, that is, we manage to have enough people to deal with the issues that come to the UDI and into the UN system. What we are now seeing is that although the number of asylum seekers has fallen somewhat, the issues we are getting are more complicated and more demanding to address, and therefore, in the Government's draft budget for next year, we have substantially strengthened both the UDI and the UN, with a view to improving the quality of the Graver Commission's report, but also as a result of the need to reduce the balances, i.e. to reduce the length of the procedure. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, it is easy to wish that matters should be decided more quickly in the appeal system, and I have stated that we should look at the possibilities for that. But it's hard to put it into practice. That's why it's a topic that we'll be able to deal with in the proposal for a foreign law, which comes in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e358	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e361	My follow-up question goes to Councillor Karita Bekkemelm. Asylum is a compound group, and I'm glad that the government has started a work to look at the care associated with this group. It's kind of two pieces. One is that many of them have had traumatic experiences. Many of them have experienced the death of close family members, while others have a completely different background when they get here. The second is on the treatment side, as the Council of State addressed in its previous reply. But what I want to lift up a bit is the general care and security you can create around such children, in general, having a stable arm hook that they can sleep in in the evening. One of the suggestions that have been made, and that the Left has been asked to do, is to make models of the SOS children's cities for these children to make a stable care. Are there models that the Council of State might think of? And are there models you can work with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e368	I want to continue a little bit where I left off. It is about looking at the content of this reform. There is no doubt that this will be a major reform with economic but also professional implications. That's why it's important that we do some proper preparatory work, so that we can get these children properly. As the representative here points out, this is also about an important piece of care. These are children who have had a very traumatic childhood and who may need many different forms of support. I see very clearly that non-governmental organisations can also make an important contribution to how we can take care of these children. But the important thing is that we take greater social responsibility. As I see it, I'm proud, because this is actually the first government to start a job at least to get these kids out of reception. So it takes some time, but I can promise that both Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and I are working intensively on this, and we are going to make suggestions as soon as we're done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e373	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e376	My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. We have an emerging feminist debate in Norway. In the last 20 to 30 years, Norway has spent millions of dollars on gender equality work, research and investigation, not forgetting gender ombudsman activities. We have allowances in schools, in jobs and later on in company boards. In all this business, there's a group of women who seem to be forgotten, and it's the immigrant women. We see the development of ghettos, parallel societies, which are dominated by the lack of human rights, with major social problems, women and children suffering from unworthy conditions, girls and women who are covered, who are sexually mutilated, and we see that violence and rape are increasing and becoming more serious. We've also seen killing. Women as individuals are crushed in a cynical game of visa, citizenship and money. In this book here, Hege Storhaug’s ‘But most of all freedom’, the blame is mainly on felony, sibling childhood and family-accompanied marriage. Is it not time, on the part of the political majority, in particular from social democracy and the so-called feminist, and also from researchers, journalists and others, to admit that they have been rescued? Isn't it time we took a solid settlement with the view of women that exists in some immigrant environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e387	I want to say that the commitment of the Progress Party to immigrant women is commendable. This is also about the fact that we have to follow up on concrete actions. When it comes to assigning blame – whether it is in the lodge over there, here in the hall or in the first row here – I think that the responsibility for how we come out as a society, and how we are judged for how we treat our new countrymen, can be distributed quite equally. But the important thing is that we take the political responsibility we now have. I actually believe that this government does. Among other things, we have amended the marriage law, with clear improvements just linked to the girls with whom Ulf Erik Knudsen is concerned. In addition, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen works with a revision of the Foreign Affairs Act, which is, of course, complicated, in the balance of being able to address some measures that will protect this group, versus that others could in a slightly unfair way be subject to the changes in the laws that we might have to make. Obviously, these are difficult balances in a society. That's different opinions. That is why I believe that it has also been set up by my colleague to deal with this matter that just shows that we might come to the right solution in common. So I just want to say that we're working intensely. We put more money into the question of forced marriage. We're working intensively against interception. We work with different types of support to organisations, which means that even this youth actually feels confident about being able to seek help from the Norwegian authorities. I would like to say that the government is doing very well with the work that the representative is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e398	It's true, as the Council of State said, that you're doing something in relation to the marriage law, and in Ot.prp. No 100 for 2005-2006 are tightened against bigami, against proxy marriage and against marriage with children, and it is easier to dissolve forced marriages. At the same time, the statements relating to divorce are partly diluted, and it is said that the so-called arranged marriage is completely ok. This is to shoot yourself in the foot. Another issue is that the measures taken in Ot.prp. No 100, come ten years after everyone knew about the problem, and ten years after the Progress Party had notified how this was to be resolved. Isn't it time to stop pulling your feet after yourself, to get a 24-year detention age as soon as possible, and to get a ban on fats and cousins?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e405	I want to say, as the representative well knows, it has been more than the Progress Party that has had a strong commitment in this Chamber for many years to be able to come up with a policy that is better than what we have done. That's exactly where we're now, that we're going to conclude. I will not go into the field of my colleague. He who has the constitutional responsibility gets to answer himself. But it is quite clear that here the government will come up with completely concrete measures. I also want to say that on the question of siblings' childhood and the age limit, I think we have to be honest to say that opinions go across all parties. But what the government is concerned about is to take as a starting point that we want to protect both young girls and boys from being exposed to a number of acts that are of such a nature that it would have been inappropriate for us to accept that our own children had been exposed to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e412	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e415	It's good to be a immigrant woman in Norway only when you know the Norwegian language, when you know our society, when you participate in our society and contribute according to your ability. In order to achieve this, conditions need to be established. Avoiding coercion is essential. In this context, as also mentioned earlier, a proposal for a 21-year-old age limit, which has been put forward for consultation, is being put forward. But in our globalized world, where young people travel around the world, they meet and will be together. The aberration with an age limit is that it will make everyday life difficult and take away the freedom of many of our young people. The right has a better option. We want to raise the requirement of maintenance further. Several people would then have to work and be self-sustaining in order to get a spouse. It will also contribute to fewer coerciveness. I think it is good that we have both the Minister of Gender and the Minister of Inclusion here. Cooperation between the two is essential in these matters, and therefore I would like to ask the Council of State here: will the Government now contribute to the lifting of the maintenance obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e423	I'm looking at my colleague who's here. He actually has the constitutional responsibility at that point, so I guess the right thing is that he answers that. But I can assure the representative that the situation for immigrant women is high on the agenda, and the cooperation between our two departments on these issues is ongoing. But I think, since the Council of State is actually present in the Chamber, he's going to be allowed to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e428	Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen - there are 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e431	Then I think the answer must be that all of this comes back to us when we propose a new foreign law, where both rules related to family reunification and questions about age limits, maintenance requirements, etc. is an important theme. We are now working intensively on this. Now we're done with the pension message, and we're done with the job, well-being and inclusion message, so now it's full pressure to make proposals for a new foreign law, which is coming to the Stortinget in the month change of February/March next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e436	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions. The representatives mentioned the name of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e439	I would like to follow up with the Minister for Gender Equality. I notice that this question comes from the party that in protest refused to participate in the equality debate that was attempted to start in Egypt, linked to the Ibsen anniversary. I would like to ask questions to the Council of State. There are also many positive things about equality, especially for second-generation immigrant girls. They're taking over Pakistani Student Association. There's a lot of tough, good girls doing a good social job. What we see now is that to combat the evil that we see here, you take very general measures. We need tools that work in general, while we know that these are problems that need to be addressed in particular. When we were going to fight them down as Norwegian phenomena, we also had to attack them specifically, and not with general instruments. So I'd like to ask the Council of State to confirm that here it's actually fighting for the individuals and fighting for the individual issues that are important, and not general instruments to take the big groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e450	I want to give the representative Skei Grande quite correctly. It is clear that we need to move away from having only general tools to start going on concrete measures. The Government has done so, for example: in the marriage law, and we're doing it now in the Foreign Affairs Act. It is important that we can also dry up some concrete measures that reach the target audience if we are to be able to provide help. I was visiting SEIF yesterday, an organization that helps young girls and boys who have broken out of the family and who fear forcibly. There is no doubt that today we have many organisations that work very well in order to give young people the opportunity for a better life. I personally believe that the key to being able to give the immigrant girls or boys a new life is actually education. Getting immigrant youth to take education could give them the key to living a completely different life and also dry to resist the pressure they experience from the family in relation to forced marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e459	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e462	We heard the representative Knudsen mention Hege Storhaug's book "But the greatest of all is freedom". How can we ensure that women who break out of these oppressive marriages have a safe stay in Norway? What happens is that they actually live with constant anxiety. We see them being persecuted. We see them being mistreated. We see them being raped. They're even being killed. Not even outside the crisis centres is it safe. Now, in Nordic cooperation, we have decided to build safe houses. I wonder, can the Council of State also imagine establishing safe houses for these women here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e469	I want to say that we are open to all new and good proposals for solutions for these groups. As I pointed out in my previous answer, today we have an incredible commitment and a lot of important knowledge to be able to provide help in these situations. Our challenge is just to provide information to our new countrymen that forced marriage is not acceptable, it is prohibited by Norwegian law. It shall be prohibited to engage in cutting operations. That's why it's important that we play on the organisations, so that this knowledge reaches out to our new countrymen. But quite specifically in relation to the question, I would like to say that we are open to considering the proposal, and will come back when we get to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e474	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e477	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: A traditional centre profile has been to balance the economy between the public and private sectors. The Norwegian economy today has a very fast pace. The latest figures from Norway’s Bank and the SSB show that one of the biggest challenges in the Norwegian economy in 2007 will be labour shortages, with the corresponding wage pressure and the risk of interest rate increase. From history, we know that such economic growth is centralising, and that growth in the public sector in such a situation is like throwing petrol at the centralisation stake. Back as losers stand entrepreneurs and the small businesses in the districts. Does it not worry the Council of State that the economic situation is vacuuming the districts of the labour force?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e485	The government is concerned that we should pursue a policy that contributes to decentralisation. Therefore, any trend towards centralisation will worry us. That's exactly the basis for us taking up district policy in a whole new way. We presented a June announcement to the Stortinget entitled "Heart for the Whole Country". There are a number of different instruments that we can use to ensure that District Norway has both the competence and the willingness to address the challenges they face, and that has been carefully reviewed in the district communication. If we are to succeed in regional policy, we must be able to think districts in all sectoral policies. I can come up with a lot of smart actions, specific, targeted actions, on what we refer to as the narrow district policy, and there are many of those kinds of things inside the district communication. It is important, but if we are really to succeed, we must have the ability to think district policies in general industrial policy, in education policy, in environmental policy, in transport policy, etc. And that's what we've taken as the starting point for the government's policy. Districts and decentralisation in all sectoral policies should be considered. In addition, we need to strengthen the efforts of the narrow district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e492	I thank you for the answer, and I have the following follow-up questions: the evolution rate is not getting us until about a year. My prediction is that we can stand here in the hall next harvest with a moving statistics showing a further centralization. In its programme for 2005-2009, the State Councils own party have a chapter entitled ‘Stop centralisation of Norway’. I quote from that chapter: ‘Through a series of independent policy decisions, the bulk of the population has been undermining parts of the rural labour market.’ We have a centralising economy and a government that in the district notification does not focus on the decentralisation of state jobs. Is the majority of the population not now in the process of making a series of new decisions that will further undermine the labour market in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e502	Firstly, I must stress that this government represents something completely new in the area of regional policy. Unlike the previous government, we are now taking a district political lift. We simply say that if people are to live and live where they want in this country – and there are a lot of people who want to live in District Norway – there are three things that must be in place: people must have jobs, they must have services, and they must be able to live in relatively attractive places. In terms of services, we take a promise for the local economy that a rare person has seen in the past. Attractive sites we work with in many different ways, including: with a completely new focus on local development. Then we come to the center – workplaces. There, we need to facilitate state jobs – spread them well into the country – and we need to facilitate the new jobs. It's just with a combination of this that we can give it business around in District Norway that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e509	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e512	Let me first say that there is a little mixed reception outside the municipalities of the promise that the government claims they have given. The Progress Party is fully in line with the Government in relation to the need for municipalities to have increased transfers. But the issue is a little different, because there is a shortage of the workforce that is the big issue, and we have heard that in the Questionnaire today. That's how we have over 430 municipalities, and we have 18-19 municipalities. In the fight for skilled labour, it appears that the public sector is gradually becoming the loser. Among other things, there is a look-up in the Municipal Report today that says recruiting young people into the public sector almost becomes impossible in the future. It brings me to the discussion of the structure we have. This government now wants to build new regions, which are also to have labour, in addition to wanting to maintain today's municipal structure. Is it not time for us to look at the entire government – municipal structure and regional government together with government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e519	It is a challenge that, in many sectors, we lack labour today. We have to be serious about that, and we're serious about that. Not least, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has presented a message that, hopefully, will give relatively rapid effect to this, namely the welfare message. There's the whole idea that we should be able to take out the difficult potential of having 600 000 – 800,000 people out of work today, and that we should at least be able to achieve to some extent. In relation to the attractiveness of the public sector, and perhaps primarily in the care of the elderly, where we have major challenges, I am convinced that strengthening the economy of municipalities makes working in the care of the elderly more attractive. Employees don't have to run properly as soon as they've done before, it'll be a better working environment, it'll be more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e524	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e527	The question that Left travels today is absolutely essential, because it's a question of how a person distributes the whole big pie. The Council of State's response is the district announcement to the Government, which is in reality only cocky in relation to the social development you are facing. The scarcity of Norwegian society today is not economic, but labour supply. It is then very important to have the right balance between labour used in the private sector and labour used in the public sector. Moving that balance dramatically means that those who are going to finance our well-being will disappear, tax revenue will be reduced, and our welfare will be threatened. My question therefore goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on the Government's view of the balance of labour in society today: Does the Government have plans or ideas to start a discussion or to present a comprehensive plan on how the labour force in society today is disposed of – and not least how it will be disposed of in the future – in view of the large plans that the Government has for investing in the public sector, and how could it possibly go beyond the value creation in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e536	Before receiving the floor, the President of the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, will ask representatives who ask a question to another than the one to which the main question is addressed, to say so at the beginning of their question, so that the Council of State follows closely. That doesn't mean that State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen didn't do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e539	President, thank you for that! I want to say that I very much agree with the good description Bent Höie gives, that we need a mental reverse operation related to what is scarce. We've all grown up at a time when we've been talking about the struggle to provide enough jobs for Norwegian labour, while we're increasingly talking about the struggle to provide enough labour for existing jobs. It's a pretty hard mental reverse operation we have to go through. Now I would like to say that the reports I receive as Minister of Labour are not primarily linked to the fact that the public sector is not able to recruit, although there are some challenges in Oslo, especially in the health and social sector. The scarcity factor is reported primarily from private business. Therefore, one might say that the challenges are very much linked to both the short-term and the long-term: mobilising a larger part of our own labour force, short-term working on labour migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e548	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e552	My question doesn't go to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, it goes to the government council Haga, who got the main question. I also trust that the Councils will follow when we ask questions. The Christian People's Party is engaged in offensive district policy, and I am pleased with all the good intentions that are in the district message "Heart for the whole country" – "With the heart of the right city" for the whole country. We are also concerned that this is about jobs, and it is about good services. As the councillor and all-powerful woman at Utsira said, we must have at least equal well-being in the smallest municipalities, because we have to be attractive. It's true that we have to have attractive places where people can live. But my question is, where is it going to be of volunteering? It won't be good to live in District Norway if we don't have an up-to-date association and active teams and organisations. I miss that. What was set back after the hearing on the district notification in the municipal committee is that we need up-to-date non-governmental organisations. That's why I'm a little surprised that this government is kissing e.g. in higher education institutions, in the support of prayer houses, etc. Where is the Government’s policy on voluntary activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e561	The representative Tørresdal is quite right when she suggests that a living district policy requires that we have living volunteering and that we have fires around the country. And we are very clear on that in the district announcement. We seek to underpin all the good initiative that lies in very many communities, among others. through economic instruments. The whole idea of the district message is that we should grab hold of those who want to, and those who can, and then we use the means to substantiate them, not three solutions down on people's heads. So it points out a very important point. I believe that this is very well taken care of in the district communication, and the instruments illustrate that this is precisely what we want: to take hold of the fire souls, to substantiate them, to support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e566	We go to the last question in the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e569	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, who now has to follow! Coastalists all over the coast started a boom this winter to gain greater power in the beach zone. They wanted to take advantage of the potential for value creation that lies within their local resource, namely a large coastline. The local democracy commission put forward proposals on the same subject, and SV rapporteur Kurt Olsen in Lødingen said: «Many municipalities, such as Lødningen, are relatively desperate to create development and jobs. We have to reverse a negative trend. The beach line is one of the advantages we have." It was probably some of the desperation and impatience that the leader of the Center Party met when she was at the Senterung national meeting this weekend and was challenged as to why she had not done anything about this. The answer she gave, according to Stavanger Aftenblad, was quite surprising: ‘The reason why nothing has yet come from the government on this is that I have put my foot down. What has been presented is not good enough. We need a new beach zone policy that takes into account that we need to have a different policy on the outskirts than in press areas. And I'll sit and sit and sit until we get this in place." black Haga. But Stortinget has received the district message for treatment. It says about the coastal zone policy: ‘There is a stronger geographical differentiation in the guidelines, where protection is more stringent in areas where there is strong competition for coastal zones than in areas where there is little pressure.’ There is therefore reason to ask the Council of State: Why is the Government still sitting and still sitting and arguing about a position that the Government has already promoted for the Stortinget in June? Or is it that in the government it is the Center Party that writes the District Message, and the Socialist Left Party that writes the Plan Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e595	It's a correct quote from the district message. It's a quote that represents a position that is completely united in the Government. The government agrees with the government policy described for Stortinget. It's always been like that, it's always going to be like that, and it's like that in this case as well. Then there is a significant scope for interpretation within these general formulations, and the Government is going to hammer out a policy that is far more concrete than what these general guidelines indicate. In that process, there are a number of different considerations to consider, and that's the process we're in. The general one is defined in the district notification. Then we're going to go to work more concretely, as we have to do in legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e602	I'm recording that what the council calls "crimination" when she speaks to her own, she calls "procedure" when she meets the Stortinget. But there is no doubt that in this area there is a significant internal conflict in the Government, and everyone is excited about what will result from this. However, this is also linked to the ongoing debate on a new regional level. For there are lines of conflict in exactly the same area, namely the question of what to decide locally and what to decide centrally. Doesn't the Council of State also see that in a society where the sense is equally distributed throughout the country, if the kind of question can be resolved by politicians who sit far away from where the problems are, it will be felt as centralizing for the local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e609	When it comes to administrative reform, we're going to get back to it. We do what we say, and we deliver a message to the Stortinget early in December, and then we get to take the discussion about the administrative reform at that time. There is no one who would disagree with the representative, Höie, that it can be perceived as provocative locally that central authorities take decisions that a local authority believes one should be in charge. Then there is a fine balance between securing national objectives on the one hand and securing the local space for action on the other. There are tensions in this, and we have to look forward with light and light so that we can balance the different aspects with each other. As far as the general relation to the beach zone is concerned, I believe it is well expressed in the district message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e616	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e619	It's a follow-up question to the state council Haga. We're all concerned with a positive development in the municipalities. We ask the municipalities, we often get the answer that they want road, road, road and own resources across the municipality, and that means the development of the municipality. But they experience the opposite, with great limitations. You can't treat all the municipalities as if they were around Oslofjorden. Does the Council not see the importance of differentiated land policies — an important instrument for the positive development of municipalities, rather than a restriction? The councils even talked about not dropping solutions across the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e626	These are questions that you can deal with very generally, and then it's pretty easy. I think everyone will understand the need for a differentiated land policy. Then the question is how far a person should go when he encounters other considerations that are also to be taken care of. I think that if we're going to have a reasonable discussion about these issues, we have to be a little more precise and go into some areas of business. But the job of a government is to help us balance different concerns. In some areas, it is important that we have comprehensive national policies, and we have national ambitions, objectives, to be met, but this must be reconciled with the local space for action. We have to work towards the good compromises on this all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e631	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e635	The main issue was the coastal zone policy and the concerns of the rapporteurs, and I will follow it up with the concerns of the rapporteurs about the tasks in the municipalities. Because, in the context of the new regional reform, it has come to light that rapporteurs around the country are actually quite concerned. The Committee was recently both in Oppland and Hedmark, and some rapporteurs expressed some concern about the future when it came to the tasks of the municipalities. However, although the Council of State has assured the municipalities that, in relation to the regional reform, tasks will not be lost, there have been several written signals from the government or department, from the KS, that the municipalities will not lose any tasks in this process. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what is the motive behind the words ‘in this round’, and how does the Council of State explain the dark clouds that might hang over the Municipality of Norway in terms of task-sharing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e643	We have established on many occasions that the administrative reform will not involve taking tasks from the municipalities, and that is a matter of urgency. There is no reason for rapporteurs to be concerned about this. If they haven't been calmed down before, we're going to repeat what we've said before, and I'm going to hope that they're calmed down now. No tasks shall be undertaken by the municipalities as part of the administrative reform process. I am uncertain where the representative has these wordings attached to ‘in this round’ from. In any case, it would be contrary to my instincts to relieve the municipalities of tasks, and I see no areas per. Today, where it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e648	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e654	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen and Tord Lien respectively to the Minister for the Environment are moved and answered to question 25, i.e. at the request of the Council of State. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 14, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, from the representatives of Odd Einar Dørum, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Hans Olav Syversen and Elisabeth Aspaker respectively, to the Minister of Justice, are moved and answered before question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e669	Due to the fact that many questions have been moved on this time, at the request of state councils, the questionnaire is a little vague, and the President therefore asks the representatives to be careful when their questions come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e676	‘Friendly organisations carrying out due diligence in the settlement of rentals to, for example: government institutions are given the estimated value of dues included in total taxable turnover, even if cash sales/sales are well below the VAT registration threshold. Among other things, for volunteering's hard work on the maintenance of our guy, this has unintended effects in terms of reduced effort, with poorer maintenance and access for people to rent space on the guys. Will the State Council consider changes to the VAT Code?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e688	Voluntary organisations may be required to calculate VAT if they engage in business activities involving the movement of taxable goods and services. These are rules to ensure a level playing field for traders who place similar goods and services on the market. At the same time, we must take care of the role of the voluntary sector in society. That is why we have a number of exceptions for non-governmental organisations, so that they can obtain money for their activities. For example, the registration limit is NOK 140 000 for these, compared with NOK 50 000 for ordinary traders. Much of the effort made in the voluntary sector is done in the form of hard work, usually in order to solve the tasks of the organisation concerned — paint the clubhouse, maintenance of sports facilities, etc. Sometimes it is also organised for others – outside the organisation. If this is done now and then and does not have a lasting and professional character, it cannot be called a business. This kind of hard work will also not be in the way of the business of ordinary traders. In practice, I think it is relatively easy to identify what is a business, but there are certainly borderline cases, and then you have to consider the cases individually. Payed for goods or services by means other than ordinary means of payment, e.g. in the case of bartering, this is considered to be two sales on the basis of which a charge shall be calculated on the price of the benefit provided. Normally it will correspond to the turnover value of equivalent benefits. The objective is to ensure that the State does not lose VAT by reducing the tax base. The trade to which the representative Schlatten refers has not been assessed either by the Ministry or by the Tax Directorate. I therefore ask for an understanding that it is difficult for me to assess this question on the basis of the information I have so far. However, I would like to ask the Tax Directorate to take a closer look at this issue, including whether the considerations behind the rules warrant such an interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e701	I always understand the Minister of Finance's problems with possibly answering questions from time to time, but I see the answer as positive. I want to underline some of what she says in her listing of the legislation, namely that this has to do with competition with normal business. In my view, hard work in exchange for rent has no influence on it. I believe my advice – and also my prayer – from here must be that more consideration must be given to volunteering. Then it might be tempting to point out to the local government minister, who was just talking about volunteering in the districts, that it must be preserved, that the fires must be preserved. I think she said something like we don't have to three solutions down on people's heads. That's exactly what you're doing here, and I hope the Minister of Finance will take it with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e708	I said in my reply that I should ask the Tax Directorate to look into the issue that has been raised here. This is an example that has a level of detail that makes it very difficult to go in and say if it falls on one side or the other of the legislation. But we would like to take a closer look at the matter. The whole background to our border crossings is the situation in which professional non-governmental organisations are increasingly able to deliver goods and services, which will compete with small traders operating in the same field. That's why there's a need to look at how the rules are applied on a case-by-case basis, if we're in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e715	It is true that voluntary organisations gradually become more professional, but it is also a result of the demands of society – the society in which they live. I think that just this borderline case in terms of hard work, in particular in exchange for rent, perhaps especially in exchange for rent from state institutions, is so much so that it might require special regulatory solutions. I know the problems by changing the VAT law. It is not easy, and there are many considerations to take, and I must wish the Minister of Finance luck in finding a good solution here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e720	I thank you for all the congratulations it is possible to give. The matter raised by the representative fleet is one that has so far not been subject to assessment either in the Tax Directorate or in the Ministry of Finance. It's when that case gets there, that we can go into the question of delimitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e729	‘Bioethanol cars are badly affected by the Government’s proposed changes to the one-off fee. The Ministry of Finance considers that the type-approval underpinning the motor vehicle register does not indicate whether the vehicle can use high-intensity biofuels. The Ministry of Finance therefore considers that it is not possible to adapt a special charging treatment for such vehicles. Will the State Council, pending a new motor vehicle register, provide the bioethanol cars with a one-off charge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e736	I am pleased that, in the context of the 2007 state budget, we have started to convert car charges in a more environmentally friendly way. So we're proposing a system that premieres cars with low CO2 emissions. It is an important signal for both consumers and manufacturers. In the new system, the one-off charge will be calculated on the basis of the weight, power and emissions of CO2 of the vehicle. If there is no information on CO2 emissions, use the car’s cylinder capacity instead. The weight, power and CO2 emissions data will be taken from the motor vehicle register. The motor vehicle register is again based on data from type-approval. Neither the motor vehicle register nor the type-approval contains per information today on which cars can use bioethanol. Nor are fixed criteria for which vehicles are to be considered as bioethanol cars. All petrol vehicles will initially be able to run on the fuel involved a greater or lesser degree of ethanol. The proportion could be increased, depending on the modifications made to the cars. Therefore, as indicated in the draft budget, it is not now possible to include a special fee treatment for such vehicles in the ordinary charging procedure. This applies initially regardless of the way in which a one-off fee is to be facilitated. However, I have already commissioned the Customs and Tax Directorate to take a closer look at these issues. This is, of course, in the light of the issue raised by the representative in his question. In the light of the feedback from the directorate, I would like to assess how the tax management of bioethanol cars can best be adapted to the one-off charging system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e757	I thank you for your answer. In fact, according to the Norwegian Bioenergy Association, the Customs and Fee Directorate and the Road Directorate confirm that it is fully possible to provide a special tax relief for bioethanol cars. Starting with more cars that can go on biofuels is very positive, and the Right also supports the conversion that takes place to get a more environmentally friendly tax regime. What we see is that cars have a life span of about 20 years. And even if the pumps are not available today, they will come to us as we get more cars into the market. At the same time, we know that the tax conversion to which the Minister of Finance has been a driving force unfortunately leads to the choice of diesel cars by a great many rather than by example. biofuels cars, which result in both higher CO2 emissions and not least higher particulate emissions. How does the Council of State want asthmatics and others suffering from particulate and NOx emissions to respond to this, and what is her response to those environmental challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e772	Let me take bioethanol cars first, because I fully agree with the questioner that it is desirable that we get pumps up with this type of fuel, while at the same time getting a larger part of the car fleet over to so-called flexible cars. Today there's only one pump in the whole country, and it's at the Storo Center in Oslo. It's a little long to travel for most people who were going to buy a bioethanol car. But this pump is there because our government and I introduced a full exemption for the so-called E85. I am very pleased that the Right now supports such a tax exemption that they themselves did not implement when they had the Ministry. It may seem that both in the motor vehicle register and in the type-approval specifications that make it easy to identify bioethanol cars, so as to agree on the definition of them, and that it is then possible to differentiate the one-off charge, so as to arrive at a favourable tax rate. The price is for the negotiators to decide at last. The rest I unfortunately cannot answer, if the representative does not ask me an additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e781	Sweden has about 30 000 E85 cars, the United States has about 3.5 million E85 cars, and Brazil has 2.5 million E-100 cars. Norway is perhaps selling as little as 350 E85 cars this year. This is due, inter alia, to: that these cars cost NOK 6000 to NOK 8 000 more than normal petrol cars, and unfortunately the charging system does not take account of the environmental aspects that it has. I therefore ask the Council of State to speed up the work of getting a tax conversion that actually gives biofuels cars a tax relief. It has been said from Nobio that it is assumed that a tax reduction of approximately NOK 20 000 will lead to a sale of between 2000 and 3000 cars in 2007 alone. It is now known that hybrid cars have a special exception because their batteries weigh considerably more. It was not possible to imagine such a stencil charge for hybrid cars, for example. 75 pst. of ordinary CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e791	Luckily for the work on getting to a more environmentally friendly car park, there has been a government change, because immediately after we started, I started to work on this work over a wide range. These are the general changes in the one-off charge, this is what we are going to do in terms of the annual tax on local emissions – which is also announced – and all of this work is to increase the use of flexible cars or much greater use of bioethanol. Hybrid vehicles are identifiable in the motor vehicle register today. The job we're going to do now is get the biofuels identifiable. It can go faster than we thought when we provided the budget. I have a high pressure on this work, because it is a strong wish from this government to get up the market that makes it interesting to buy a car that can go on the E85, while we continue to get the pumps up. However, there are differences in the charging system based on different models, so that the picture of the representative Skovholt Gitmark drawing from the differences in charges for flexifuel cars becomes somewhat too general.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e802	I would like to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: «As a wholesaler from Hedmark, I have received many enquiries from people, most of them, about long processing times for different applications. In the Glåmdalen newspaper of 30 October this year we could read about someone who wanted to sell a farm, and that the trial period took exactly one year. Is the Council of State satisfied with current practice, or will the Government work to ensure that the processing time is as short as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e811	For individuals and businesses, effective public sector procedures are very important. I have to limit my response to what falls within my remit, that is, the state's relationship with municipal administration. It is my opinion that the municipalities must ensure efficiency and user-friendliness in their proceedings. A nearby idea of reducing the duration of proceedings may be to introduce time-limits of procedure. However, a dilemma with regard to time-limits of procedure is that the total resources allocated to the proceedings do not increase as a result of time-limits. As a result, municipalities may have to transfer resources from other sectors to the sector where deadlines are introduced. So you just move on to the problem. It is also the case that it is the individual municipal maritime that is closest to knowing which matters are most urgent. At the same time, we must always assess whether, in the priority sectors, we should have procedural deadlines for the municipalities. In this area, too, we are facing the classic balance between state governance and local maritime governance. In my opinion, the role of the State must, however, be primarily to provide the municipal sector with sufficient resources, so that municipalities have the capacity for efficient and rapid processing. The government's contribution to the local economy is an important contribution to keeping procedural time down. The local government sector needs to ensure that the growth that municipalities now have is used to provide better services to citizens. We are now in the situation that Norwegian municipalities in 2006 and 2007 will have a growth of over 18 billion kroner. This money is supposed to go to a lot. They shall be used for maintenance and for the amortisation of debts. They shall go to better school and care services, child protection, culture, etc. However, it is doubtful that Norwegian municipalities now have the opportunity to strengthen the processing capacity, and thus the processing time could also be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e824	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which, to my mind, was good. I hope and believe that the Council of State understands that when a case goes out, it imposes large extra costs on the applicants. It also causes applicants, both anxiety and uncertainty about what is happening. In the example I mentioned, someone wanted to sell a farm. It took exactly one year for them to get a positive answer. I hope the Council of State agrees with me that this is too long. State councils talk a little about procedural deadlines. Then it might be interesting to hear a little bit more from the Council of State about how long the deadlines might be, with the government we have today. Things take a long time, and it creates, as I said, uncertainty, extra expenses etc. It is therefore important that there are clear guidelines on how long a case should take. No matter how large a municipality has, it must give priority to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e833	I have to ask for an understanding that I cannot go into this single matter that the representative, Mr. Bredvold, refers to, but on the general we fully agree. We have too long processing times in many municipalities today. We have to bring them down, and I think we are making a solid contribution to it when we now strengthen the local economy as significantly as we do. Then we always have to consider which sectors it is wise to have procedural deadlines in. In the case of construction products, we have established an intricate system of deadlines. Whether to do so in other matters, we want to have a continuous assessment, but then all the way in this perspective: what is it wise to impose on the municipalities? What's the wisest thing for the municipalities to do with the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e840	I thank the Council once again for the answer. Many municipalities are struggling with population decline. When you have such a long procedure that you don't get to move because of it – in this case, the farm is empty, but there are many such things, this is just one example of many – it doesn't contribute to the growth of a municipality, nor does it lead to population growth. Rather, there will be a decline in population, because in the meantime, those who were interested in a property or a house might find themselves somewhere else. In addition, the economic aspect for applicants comes. Could the Council of State imagine that if you exceed the time of proceedings – many hope that the work will be continued, and that you think a little more about it – can the applicants at least cover some of their expenses? In this case, the applicants had to leave with approx. NOK 50000 extra due to a long procedure period, according to this newspaper article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e847	And once again, on general terms, we're in complete agreement. It is not sustainable that the length of the procedure should be as long as it is mentioned here. I see clearly that it has consequences for the individual, and it may be unfortunate also in terms of what the representative, Mr Bredvold, mentions here, as if you do not want to live in a place, but choose completely different solutions. So the question of penalties in relation to time limits. First, we need to clarify the areas in which these deadlines are to be met. But if you decide to have deadlines, I think it is quite reasonable that you also have sanctions, that it has the consequence that you do not meet the deadlines. There is a track you have chosen to enter in the case of construction products, where the system operates in such a way that if the deadline is exceeded, the construction fee will be reduced. So it's perfectly obvious that deadlines should be set, there must also be a clear incentive here in order for those who have been given the deadline to actually follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e854	So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e861	This question, from Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e864	I will be asked the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions, but they are well answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘It appears from the Evening Post on 26 October this year that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the costs of making public buildings available to everyone. In a public investigation, the cost is 80 billion. kr. [[NOT 2005:8]] Now a review of Civil Engineer Finn Aslaksen has shown that it will cost down to 10 billion. to make the public building of the country available to disabled persons. What will the Government do to arrive at a real and secure numbering material?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e873	As part of the work on the revision of the Law on Planning and Buildings, I have commissioned an investigation to calculate the costs of requiring universal design in existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas aimed at the public. Universal design means that products, construction works and outdoor areas should be designed in such a way as to enable all people to use them in an equal way, as far as possible, without special adaptations or aids. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research, NIBR, is carrying out the work, and we expect the report to be completed in March 2007. The investigation shall provide a more precise estimate of the cost of upgrading buildings to the public. The government is in favour of following up the Syse Committee's proposal to require universal design for new buildings aimed at the general public. We can't help but realize that the NIBR price tag will be crucial for how fast we can follow the selection's proposal to require universal design also for existing buildings. But let there be no doubt about our goals and ambitions relating to availability. In addition to what I mentioned, the NIBR asked to point out building types where an upgrade would have the greatest effect on expenses. Furthermore, they are asked to provide advice on the priority of type of building in relation to its utility and importance. In addition, the Ministry has asked the State Building Authority to determine which specific requirements they consider should be laid down in the regulations, i.e. the specific nature of the universal design requirement, including the elements of construction, facilities and outdoor areas which must comply with universal design requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e884	The Council of State itself mentioned the review of the Syse Committee and the requirement there. This is politically an old thing, to say it like that. There is nothing new that has come on the table in this round. I looked at the budget for 2007. It states that universal design of dwellings and other buildings should be given high priority and that the construction industry should be encouraged to follow up, as the Council of State said. Furthermore, there shall be an assessment of the technical regulations of the Law on Planning and Building, as the Council of State also briefed. But there is little or nothing about concrete measures or the allocation of resources by the Government. I therefore want to be quite concrete and right on the matter: When and how will the Government improve the conditions of the disabled? When can disabled people expect to see concrete results?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e891	The representative Holmberg is quite right in that this is an old political matter, and it has been done far too little in the field of universal design in the later years. Now we have a review of the building part in the Planning and Building Act. It is an important field in which we must be clear about universal design. Now the discussion is on how to design the requirements. In addition, we have the House Bank as an important instrument. The House Bank has a clear focus on universal design, and there is a lot of good work in the House Bank in this area. But I don't think it's hard to say that we have many large unsolved tasks in the field, because it wasn't much to take over after others in this area either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e900	It is likely that much is in contrast to the election campaign that the government parties led at the last big shot, also in this field. When it came to improving the conditions for poor groups of resources, it was almost not the way to do what to do, just to get into government. Now we see that many tasks could well be solved, because the tasks are clear, but there are questions about funding, and there are questions about the willingness to get it done here and now. However, the 2007 budget does not contain any measures. Does not the Council of State think it is a little strange in relation to the election campaign that the party of the Council of State also participated in, and all the promises made to vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e905	I'm happy for the commitment of the representative Holmberg. We need attention, we need to move, and we need to focus on these questions. But it's a little special when she refers to the will for implementation, for the Right put in government for four years and showed very little ability for action. I believe that we should now have come to you that universal design is not just a proponent word, but a word of material substance. We can't help but realize that the building part of the Law on Planning and Building becomes important, because that's where we'll be able to influence the actors in the construction industry to facilitate disabled people. In addition, we're going to do a lot of things, and not least we're going to use the House Bank as a central tool in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e910	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e922	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 5 and 6 will be answered in question 25, i.e. At the end of the Questionnaire, Questions 7 will be answered to questions 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19. So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e934	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Insurance fraud is an ever-increasing problem. The magnitude is estimated to be large, with significant darkness. This entails high costs for insurance companies, consumers and society in general. Only a minority of the fraud trials are detected and prosecuted. What measures will the Council of State take both to counter insurance fraud in general and to ensure that notified insurance fraud is followed up by police and prosecution authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e943	The statistics on reported insurance frauds for the period 2000–2005 show a decrease in reported ratios, from 367 in 2000 to 196 in 2005. However, there is reason to assume, as the representative Odd Einar Dørum also does in the question, that the darkness figures in this area are large and that the notification figures do not give a proper picture of the situation. There is also a background for the Government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, to take action to increase the percentage of information in this area as well. Effective prevention and crime prevention of insurance fraud requires inter alia: good cooperation between the police, prosecution authorities and the insurance industry. I have therefore submitted the question to the Police Directorate and the Riksadvokat. The Directorate of Police reports that close cooperation has already been established between the Directorate and the Principal Organisation of Finance to discuss actions aimed at the development of insurance fraud. In order to increase the possibilities of detection and criminal prosecution of financial crime, including insurance fraud, the police will continue to work with measures to enhance their competence, which I believe are clearly necessary. The eco-teams in the police districts, which the questioner is well aware of, will be developed to become competent and stable professional environments to deal with, among others. this kind of thing. The Police Directorate, in cooperation with the Police College, will continue to work on further developing financial research as a subject, in particular by strengthening the subject of primary education in higher education. It can also be mentioned that the main organisation of the financial industry contributes to the teaching of insurance frauds at Politihøgskolan. The Parliamentary Advocate shows to me, among others. to a report received on 9 August this year from the Main Financial Industry Organisation on the follow-up of notified insurance fraud by the Police. It appears from the report that the insurance companies reported 806 cases to the police in the period 2001-2004, and that by far half of the reported frauds were committed. And then 68 pst. of all reported frauds, were either committed or not completed before more than one year had elapsed. The investigation also shows that complaints about police detention rarely occur. On this basis, the Advocate General has called on the insurance companies to bring an action against orders in which the companies disagree with the Advocate General, even in cases where the appeal would constitute a ‘third-party appeal’ in which the Advocate General’s decision cannot be appealed. This will apply in particular if the insurance companies consider that they have identified systematic errors in the handling of the cases by the police and, where appropriate, by the State attorney. Such a complaint would be different from a complaint against a refusal on a case-by-case basis. So far, the lawyer has not received any complaints from the industry. The Advocate General is in dialogue with the Principal Organisation of the Financial Industry, and a meeting is planned in the near future to discuss the report and the issues which, in the opinion of the insurance industry, give rise to concern. The Advocate General states that, after the meeting, consideration will be given to the need for further investigation or action in this field. I would also like to take the initiative, as I have stated in the media, in a meeting between the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice and the relevant organisations that have addressed this issue. I would like to emphasise again that the fight against economic crime is a high priority for the Government. And there are actions in place to improve the situation. First of all, it is essential that we get enough staff out in the police districts so that you can just see your advice to also go into these kinds of things that don't seem to be current, but are perhaps more in the dark than the other type of crime is. That's why the Government has granted nearly 100 million. extra to the police in the current year. It is also important for us to signal that when we want a maximum admission to the Police College, as we are now proposing in the budget for next year, there should be a basis for dealing with these kind of difficult issues, as I think it is commendable that the representative Dørum is dealing with this way. Then I also want to refer to the additional proposition that the government made last year, where we strengthened the allocation to Ecocrim by a total of 6.2 million. kr, which corresponds to approx. 11 years of work, this is precisely to strengthen the Whitewashing Unit – money laundering, which is closely related to the type of crime that the representative Dørum is now bringing forward. In addition, I believe that there is good reason to continue the good actions of the Action Plan against economic crime launched by the Bondevik II Government and the then Minister of Justice Dørum in 2004, and they need to be followed up, among others. with specific appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e964	I am pleased with the seriousness and the weight that the Minister of Justice puts behind looking at this topic. The description that there are large numbers of darkness, we share. I am also pleased that there is a systematic contact and should be there between the police authorities, i.e. the Police Directorate, and the industry. I welcome the fact that, after the briefing with which I am also familiar, from August this year, on how to deal with reported cases, the Riksadvokat simply calls for an appeal against the provisions of which you disagree. I think this is a constructive contribution. What is alarming, I think, is that the industry tells me that the fraud in Norway is considered to be greater than the profits in the insurance industry, and that it is being passed on to consumers. So that way it becomes a consumer question. But what I think is more alarming, is exactly what the Council of State points out, that we can risk money laundering. I have money laundering examples associated with car fraud, and we may be concerned that it is linked to the fact that the Mafia can have links with Norway. How do the Councils of State view these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e975	It is alarming when we look at the extent of insurance fraud in Norway. And it is particularly alarming that it is more than – I was saying – de minimis errors from everyday policy holders. Because we see a pattern that can mean that there are close links between those who commit insurance fraud and organized internationally directed crime. That is why the Government – so early after joining – chose to increase the allocation of Ecocrime, and precisely in relation to the Whitewashing Unit. A very good effort has been made to make legislation, to make instructions and to impose, among other things. the financial industry, lawyers and others to report suspicious transactions. We were totally dependent on tying up the team on Ecocrim, to analyse and interpret the messages coming in. Now we're going to take the next step to next year, when it includes. the upgrading of the equipment for the whitewashing unit. It is my hope that some of the crimes associated with insurance fraud can be discovered by the work on Ecocrime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e980	Of course, I take a positive view of what the Council of State has said about Ecocrim, and share it well. But through contact with the industry, I am aware that they are also dependent on what is happening in the individual police districts. The industry has informed me that they, for example. has had a very constructive meeting with the police district of Hordaland, in order to establish forms of work that are mutual and good, as the Council of State draws up. I myself have been present at a meeting where I have had to listen with concern, for example. the ability and ability of the largest police district in the country, namely the part of the economy of the Oslo police district, to deal with these matters. I would simply urge the Council of State, through its practical craftsmanship – I would say in that way – to look at what this unit is, whether it is well organised, whether you have concentrated enough handling of matters, whether things that might be put out to urban stations, should be centralised. I would simply ask the Council of State to follow up this concretely, including here in Oslo. Because the threshold is going to be lower here, the path here is also the easiest one for organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e987	I will answer yes. I'll do that. I'll take that call. The message in this line is what I also think is very important. We can build a central ecocrime that is strong and does a good job, but we are totally dependent on the police districts out there also being able to deal with these kinds of issues. That's why I think the work done by the previous government in building up the eco-teams that we now have in all the police districts is important. At the same time, it is also important to obtain qualified financial advice into these eco-teams. That's also the background that the government in next year's budget, among other things. propose an increase of 10 million in the contribution to the assistance auditor in the police districts. kr, which is very useful for precisely giving status to this type of investigation. Because it's obvious that this is hidden crime, which doesn't always get the same focus as it actually deserves, either politically or in the media. In this way, I will direct tribute to the questioner, who chooses to take it up in Storting's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e998	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The undersigned has noted that the Council of State is satisfied that the average percentage of detection of all crime shall be at least 38 and that this shall be a national average, with the possibility of local deviations. What is the cause of the low level of ambition of the Council of State, why is it accepted that more than 60 pst. not necessarily resolved, and is not the Council of State at the same time concerned that this may be contrary to the general sense of law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1007	One of the main efforts of the Government is just to increase the clearance rate, next to react faster and better, get rid of the reconciliation queue and prevent better. This is, of course, one of the most important areas of the criminal policy of the Government. To the extent that some of my statements earlier, or budgetary documents, have been interpreted in the sense that I now settle for the fact that the percentage of clarification in Norway is on the way up, I can immediately cancel it. It's not like that. We are pleased that the police are now actually doing a better and better job and getting the clearance percentage, while we see that the trial period goes down in the police districts, and you get rid of the leftovers. We are very pleased and proud of that. But we're not satisfied enough. We have to move on. One of the major challenges in the crime scene in Norway is, in fact, that we need to solve more of the crime, whether it be violence in close relations, sexual assault, or, as we were inside instead, insurance fraud, etc. So I don't want to be interpreted in the direction that I have now settled down on this. That's what we put in action for, and it's exciting. I also believe that much of the criminal policy should focus on how we should solve more, not just on how long the punishment should be. I've said that many times. The percentage of information varies greatly within the various offences. In 2005, the percentage of clarifications for economic issues was 72,3, for violence of 60,8, for drugs of 90,2 – it is a bit due to the nature of the issues that the police are raising in terms of drugs – and for profitability it was 17.8, while we also have police districts with a very low percentage of information, including under 17.8. I've said that many times, it's not to live with. That's the numbers we have to have up. I'm glad that the clearance rate at least for the first six months of this year seems to be rising. Sense if you want to experience being careful to interpret the first six months, I think we'll get better out this year than what we've done in the past. In the area of profit crime, there are particularly thefts in the big cities that I see as an increasing problem, with many reported relationships with few or no information about the perpetrator, time or place of the crimes. We have set ourselves a target for the next year's budget period that at least you have to raise to 38 pst. clarification of all crime. That objective has been set based on what is realistic overall for the police to clarify in today’s situation. But let there be no doubt that we want to get higher than that. We just have to have something to go after, and that has to be realistic. The government has taken several steps to increase the percentage of information, including: to increase the subsidy to the Norwegian police, to better organise the police to meet just special types of crime, and the repeater project, the effort that is now being made to address recriminal crime in Oslo, and also the work that we are going to present in the Storting before Christmas, to extend the DNA registration. I think we're going to gain an almost as good experience from such a registration as you do in England, a significant increase in the percentage of intelligence in the cases where you're struggling, i.e. those relating to profit crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1020	I thank the Council of State for the answer, first of all. After hearing the statement, I am surprised that he has chosen to lay down so low, because here the Council of State has announced that we have the tool. We have the possibilities to do something, but still he adds in St.prp. No 1 up to the point where we're going to have a slope of 38 on average. That means 60 pst. actually not necessarily to be resolved. I also perceive that the council here says too little about what he does not want to get enough hold of. Because it's a fact that when you've gone into a 38 pst number, it means, as I see it, that a significant part of crime will not actually be solved. When the Council of State then explains what he intends to do, the level of ambition should also have been in line with that, I think. Or is it that the Council of State uses this as an alibi if he doesn't succeed? So he's doing a lot of new things, but he's getting so low that he can show success afterwards. Isn't that very defensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1027	No, I think here's an opportunity for the police to reach out for targets that we actually see can be achieved. We must have so many thoughts in our head at once that we can say that we have some targets along the way, especially in the areas where we labor. There is also reason to point out that the average percentage of information has remained stable at approximately. 36 since 2002. However, for the first half of 2006, there has been an increase, to 39.7 p.m., overall. It represents a good job, for which this government cannot take all credit, but it also represents a good job from the police. I see that we have to go on: we cannot live with an explanation rate – especially in the case of winning crimes – that is below 20 pst. That's exactly why we're implementing these measures. I also hope that the Advance Party and the representative Ellingsen will be pleased when we come to Stortinget before Christmas with proposals for an extension of the DNA registry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1036	Finally, the answer will probably be an unreserved yes. Of course, we should support all the good suggestions that the Government makes. It was just supposed to be missing. We probably have a common goal in that way. As I said, I am still concerned that the level of ambition is so low – at least percentage – even though the ambition of the Council of State is clearly higher in what he is presenting now, in relation to what is in the proposition. In this way, it might have been tempting to challenge the Council of State on a specific topic. It's about the type of crime. I assume that there is a different degree of seriousness within this. Winning crimes may not be the worst, but the most annoying and frustrating, and the volume here is very large. Some time ago, Secretary of State Anne Rygh Pedersen was interviewed in the investigation of a murder case. She stated that it was not necessarily the most important priority to investigate murder cases. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State share this view, or should it still be such that there should be no doubt that the most serious crime should have the highest priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1045	I dare not approve of the petitioner's presentation of the quotation from my State Secretary in this respect. Let there be no doubt that the most serious crimes are going to be high priority in the police districts. So do they. In relation to the issue of the percentage of information in relation to, for example: Kill, we'll get out well. The police are putting a great deal of effort into resolving such matters. In Norway, the percentage of deaths reported in the last 10 years is good. There are very few killings that are not solved. Many of the killings actually resolve pretty quickly. That means, however, that we have another type of serious crime that is not very close to having such a good percentage of information. This is particularly true of violence in close relationships, for which we never get any reports. It concerns violence against children – I will answer questions about it later in the Questionnaire – and also questions about rape. We're facing a situation where 95 pst. Of the girls raped in Norway, there is never a sense of punishment. I warmly welcome any political pressure on this, and we are working on measures to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1058	‘Unfortunately, violence and alcohol are often two sides of the same coin. In parts of the Oslo Centre, the number of service points is very close, triggering the need for significant police efforts to ensure order and quiet. These are police resources that could have been used in other ways, including: to increase the presence in several parts of the city. There are now proposals to reduce the number of donations by 25 pst. in the most congested city streets. Will the Council of State support such a proposal in the work of a safer Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1065	I will be careful to provide support for concrete local measures for which I am not fully aware. I want to say right away: let there be no doubt that the kind of action the representative here is asking for, which is about being able to mitigate the crime in the city, has my support. I don't just support this, I think it's actually one of the most important things you can do locally. One of the most important things we can do in criminal policy is to prevent criminal acts. The relationship we see between alcohol use and violence is one of the most well-documented contexts that exists, but sometimes I feel that it is these contexts that are least respected politically. We're totally dependent on the fact that we're going to have to put the search light on this to a much greater extent. It is good that questions are asked about this in the questionnaire. I am very pleased that the Police Joint Union in these days is just putting this on the agenda. After all, it must be much better that we manage to prevent crime before it happens, before the battles come, instead of creating a repair society with police and hospital employees – and in what it may be – that is often accused of being ‘on the heel’. With regard to the direction of the type of action requested by the representative, it is the responsibility of the municipality. I believe that it is also an obligation for us in the government and for the politicians in the Storting to put the spotlight on this to a greater extent. We need to facilitate policy-making so that we can see more clearly the consequences of local policy decisions and have a framework law that may focus much more on this. Questions relating to the alcohol law relate to a department other than mine, but I would like to mention in particular that such issues have a major impact on criminal policy, such as the use of drugs. questions about how many outlets you need, how long you need to open up, and what kind of process you need to give an authorization. I would particularly like to point out the work we are doing now to establish police councils in the municipalities. I hope that just discussing alcohol and alcohol policy will be central to that, not only in the way that the police say it, but that they also have the opportunity to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1076	I don't think I disagree with any of what the Council of State said in its answer. Let me follow up on one point, namely the issue of framework legislation. The Alcohol Act lays down rules on how to grant and how to exercise the authorisation. The police are the consultative body – just as many others are – in an application situation. I am aware that this is not within the prime area of the Minister of Justice, but there is such a strong link between the police's ability to influence this positive and the alcohol law, that I nevertheless want to ask: Could such an assessment by the Government itself envisage a strengthening of what we can call the police's right of objection linked to law and order and to the need to prevent criminal acts, a strengthening which I understand that the Council of State, in cooperation with its colleague, is prepared to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1083	The answer is yes. That's the relationship we're looking at. Initiatives have been taken, both at the State Secretary level and by me and the Minister of Health and Welfare on this issue. I believe that every government is totally responsible for all policies. As the representative says, one of the main reasons for both an increase and a decrease in the crime of violence in society is so closely related to the development of special skepticism that we in the Ministry of Justice cannot overlook it. We just want to look at the framework. We'll see if there's anything we can do, especially up against the police councils, and, as the representative asks, see if there's any chance of giving more power, among other things. to the police when they come forward with their objections and their statements in relation, inter alia, to: bulwarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1090	I do not need any further follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1099	‘From 2001 to 2004, a research project was carried out by the Forensic Institute which examined the causes of sudden death in young children. The project proposed improved procedures for suddenly dying studies in infants and young children. In such cases, thorough investigations are important both in order to provide good information and in order to ensure legal certainty for children. The project's recommendations have been supported by several professional bodies. How will the Government follow up its recommendations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1106	Children who are subjected to violence affect us all. When it is the smallest, this affects us all the more, not least in the case of violence committed by caregivers on whom the child is closest and totally dependent. My starting point is clear: Small children have an unconditional requirement for protection against abuse and full legal certainty. Our laws and our organisational systems are not created in view of conflicts of interest between the children and their parents. These are difficult and complicated issues. The report mentioned by the representative Syversen represents an important work and shows how difficult the question of early infant or infant death is. On the one hand, there is a need to clarify the actual circumstances when a child dies. On the other hand, caregivers are cared for in grief. Both considerations must be taken into account when following the recommendations contained in the report of the Child Death Project. As in so many of the difficult areas of life, we are also dependent here on cooperation and open dialogue to find the good solutions that ensure the competence and responsibilities of both health authorities and the justice sector. The government is currently working on an action plan to lift, among other things. the issue of violence in close relationships. Many of the measures we are looking at will also be relevant in relation to children, including children. issues related to the resource situation, out-of-office staff, own teams and issues raised by this working group. For my part, as part of the follow-up to the Child Death Project, I took the initiative for a broad-based screening conference which was held on 10 May on children who were subjected to family violence, with the participation of both the National Attorney's Office, the Police Directorate, the Children's Ombudsman, the Ullevål Hospital, the forensic institute, the police and others who have child-related tasks. One of the objectives of the conference was to look at the tasks of different agencies in the event of unexpected infant deaths, and how to promote solutions such as: ensure legal certainty for young children in this context, including the assessment of the introduction of site of death testing as a compulsory scheme. This conference will now be followed up and seen in the context of the work of another working group, set up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which assesses the conclusions and proposals for solutions presented in the report of the Child Death Project. I have been informed that the work of this group will be completed with the first and handed over to the Minister of Health and Care, who will have the primary responsibility for the follow-up in the further work. I would therefore like to await the completion of this report and the further treatment in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, so that we can obtain good quality assurance of the proposals in order to develop the best possible procedures in the work in such a sensitive and professionally difficult area as what we are talking about here, before deciding on what follow-up we are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1119	There is an important balance that the Minister of Justice points to in his reply. At the same time, there is no disagreement – I hope – that we must first of all have the child’s interests in mind. This situation is now, we know that we have a number of deaths among young children who may not have been followed up in a sufficiently good way. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice spoke of children having an unconditional requirement for protection and that their legal certainty should be ensured. But also for parents in cases where nothing criminal has happened, it may be the best consolation to know the cause of the death, so that they get calm about it. My question is: will you ensure that the organisation of the follow-up does not become such as to prevent what might seem to be criminal relations from coming to the attention of the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1128	When it comes to violence against children who end up as dramatic as death, I believe that it is vital that any criminal relationship be revealed. At the same time, I think it's actually good for many parents, as the representative was about, to know what caused it all. It doesn't mean that it's not hard to know how to deal with a situation that's so critical to your parents as well. At least you have to do everything in your power to find a good and proper way to approach a family that has experienced this. In fact, I think it can also help to make sure that we get all the information we need, because the most important premiscuous providers and those who sit on the most important facts in many of these cases are just the closest. Therefore, good dialogue in many of these situations will be crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1133	I am aware that it is a working group that is now in the final phase of its work. We have heard that there may be a slightly different view of where such a follow-up group – what to say – should be anchored. My concern is that we should not get into a situation where the organisational solution becomes such that it, for example. one and only ports in the health care system, which will make it possible sometimes, unfortunately, to hide behind the rules of professional secrecy. I would like clear answers from the Council of State as to whether he agrees that such an organisational solution should not be the fasit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1138	At least we should not create organisational solutions that give actors the impression that they have confidentiality rules that prevent dialogue between, among other things. police and health services. What we often see is that the rules of professional secrecy, as many claim, are actually not there, so that you have put a constraint that might be a good excuse not to do the job you're actually going to do. One very important element in the follow-up to these reports and these working groups is that we have an organisation of this that helps those who need information actually get information. And I haven't experienced many times that those in such a difficult situation have something particularly against the fact that the police are also getting the information. The problem has also been about how the police and the justice sector have been involved, whether or not we should overdramatise that relationship. Many parents who are in a difficult situation feel that it is really about how the police meet them, and not when.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1158	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘NRK Nordland has focused on issues with young drug law offenders on 31 October this year, with the most common form of reaction being fines. The police in Northern Ireland are quite clear that the fines do not work as intended, but the drug addicts cause debt problems that too many lead to new crime. At the same time, the police state that they lack alternative criminal responses. Will the Council of State consider whether it may be appropriate for this type of crime to identify more appropriate forms of reaction and which are sufficiently preventive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1167	The question of how society should respond to young offenders is both important and difficult. I think it is very positive that this comes from right-wing representatives here in Stortinget, because we are totally dependent on that we can now respond differently, especially to the younger lawbreakers. In this way, this is a very good example that fines for a 16-17-year-old in many respects can only work against their purpose. We in the government believe that it is necessary to think again about how we react to children and young people who have committed criminal acts. That was the background for our promotion of St.meld on June 9, 2006. No 20 for 2005-2006 on alternative criminal responses to young offenders. As Mr Aspaker knows, this is now before the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I think it is good that we are getting a little bit of a warm-up to the debate that will come up in connection with that communication, but the question, the issue that the representative of Aspaker is raising here, is a problem that I absolutely invite to be addressed precisely in the context of the discussion of the communication here in Stortinget. It will be very important to get a signal – not only from the government parties, but also from the other parties – about what you actually think is useful. It is particularly important to find an alternative response to prison for offenders under 18 years of age. It is also important to find alternatives to fines. Fines are widely used in response to young offenders, and for many young people such a reaction will produce a very small rehabilitating effect. Sometimes it works against its purpose. It actually involves more crime, among other things. to purchase free of fines. An action that may be considered is a change in the criminal law so that the courts in cases where young people aged 15 to 18 will be sentenced to prison sentences under conditions must assess whether conditions are to be set that are particularly suitable for having a rehabilitation effect. The whole spectrum of conditions and the type of conditions that we can set should be the subject of debate in the context of that notification. I also see the work on the new penal code, with which we have planned to come to Stortinget in 2008, as a good opportunity to assess new ideas, and I look forward to exciting discussions with the members of the Justice Committee in this way. It is also announced that we are going to deliver a criminal health report, which is more focused on the reaction pattern against those who commit criminal offences. Here too, it will be appropriate to raise the debate that the representative of Aspaker has now taken up. I would also like to mention that in 2006, four local follow-up teams – in Kristiansand, in Oslo, in Stavanger and in Trondheim – focused entirely on responses, with responses that meet the individual’s needs. The cooperation between law enforcement officers and the auxiliaries is central to these pilot projects and it is intended that these follow-up teams should ensure an overall follow-up to the youngest offenders. Furthermore, we have set up a system of judicial control drug control programmes for drug users convicted of drug crime. They're a different reaction than the usual one. Fortunately, there is broad support here in the Stortingen for it. The scheme allows the court to make conditional judgment conditional on the judgment being subject to a rehabilitation programme. As a result, drug users who are motivated by it can be sentenced to treatment instead of prison sentences. Finally, I would like to stress that it is also possible today to use completely different forms of reaction than fines against young offenders. It is, in particular, the social penalty that is central. There have been several parties, including the former government, that have done a good job in expanding the use of community sanctions. It's an incredibly important reaction form to the younger ones. Research shows that just – just – 20 pst. by those who are being penalised by society, commit new crimes. We look at those who are in prison, and at young offenders who are sentenced to prison sentences, the rate of relapse is as high as 80. There are not necessarily fully comparable groups on a permanent basis, but it provides good coverage for a good response.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1190	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that effective, long-term crime prevention requires responses that work, not just to avoid the first crime, but even more important, perhaps, to avoid repeated crime for those who have ended up on the outside. I think it is very commendable that criminal justice in freedom in Northern Ireland has put this on the agenda, that they have brought their experiences into public space and called for innovation and alternatives to fines. It is also important to note that the police actually agree that you are a little upset, and that there is reason to take this situation seriously. In addition, there is one reason for concern about this particular issue. It is that drug crime is no longer a city phenomenon. We'll find it everywhere. That's why it's very important that we have good ways of dealing with this. I want to challenge the Council of States in how he wants to facilitate the exchange of experience, to learn from each other if you have succeeded better than elsewhere – an exchange so that we can tackle this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1201	Yes, it is commendable that the Nordic Criminal Office addresses this question, but it is also commendable that representatives here in the UK address it. I must be allowed to say that. Because it is not everyday food that we are now discussing other measures against children and young people who commit criminal acts than what we traditionally discuss when discussing criminal policy, namely how long they will be inside prisons. I think that's very good. The point that the representative Aspaker is now raising in relation to gaining experience on how to do it around the country is absolutely important. We see large local variations, in the use of community sanctions, in the use of conditions and in the use of alternative forms of reconciliation, for example. as regards the issue of more progress in the settlement. We see that there are local variations, and that's exactly why we have to listen to more people. I use the forums where I meet the criminal services and the police, to just bring this up, and these are the forums that I feel are the right address for this. But now, before Christmas, the Justice Committee has a golden opportunity to present this in the context of the great news we were about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1210	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I understand that the Justice Committee has a challenge in relation to the communication we have before us. But I would also like to stress what the Council of State itself had to say, that when the special part of the penal code comes to the Stortinget, it is important to think in a wider range, and to take this problem seriously. It deserves it, otherwise I think it might grow big. I would just like to have the Council of State's assurance that you will actually get a proposal to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for a penal law that places particular emphasis on that perspective in relation to young offenders in general, but also in particular on drugs, which unfortunately is a growing problem whether we are in cities or in rural areas in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1219	I'll take that challenge. It's absolutely central to the Government. I believe that one of the most important things we can do is to think differently especially towards the younger offenders, and not to invite to a criminal career. What often happens is you get a fully conditional judgment, which is really not a reaction, or you get a fine that you can't pay, and that really doesn't work. We should really respond more actively to those who commit criminal acts, and put them into a framework and context that can contribute to more education, so that they can get work together and get a normal social framework around their lives. I believe that we now have many good opportunities to discuss this, while seeing that we also have reaction forms that need to be used more by the courts and the police. There's a problem, and I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1226	We're going back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1233	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The builders of micro, mini and small power plants are now in a state of despair over a long process of NVE. Some builders have been waiting for more than one year for their applications without a response. This is not sustainable! Hydropower plants below 10 MW will usually be built within a period of less than one year. The potential for micro, mini and small power plants is so great that it has a security of supply significance. What will the Government do to shorten the procedure time for power plants below 10 MW of installed capacity?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1242	In recent years we have had a huge increase in the number of concession requests to build small hydropower plants with installed power of less than 10 MWh. As the representative says, this large amount of work has helped to ensure that the processing time for these applications is now too long. There are many factors that affect the timing of concessional treatment. The degree of conflict, complexity and need for coordinated treatment with other applications in the same area varies on a case-by-case basis. Measures to streamline the procedure and increase the NVE’s procedural capacity have already been initiated. Exemptions from the overall plan and delegation to the NVE by the concession authority for projects below 10 MWh have significantly simplified the procedure for the action holders. The NVE has also implemented measures to improve the effectiveness of its internal procedures and to make information and application templates more accessible through the Internet and seminars. These measures have already produced results and will be followed up. The 2007 government budget provides for the NVE to give priority to concession treatment and security of supply-related work. This includes, inter alia: strengthening the process capacity of the NVE in the case of power generation plants. A one-sided focus on reducing the duration of treatment of NVE for concessional applications would not be appropriate. It requires time and resources to carry out sound, comprehensive assessments and a treatment that includes impact assessments, hearings, public meetings, inspections, etc. within statutory requirements. We need to be sure that the decisions that are taken will take place afterwards. The government is therefore in the process of implementing measures to strengthen the decision-making base through procedural and regional planning guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1258	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was partly disappointing. As usual, the Council of State refers to the laws and regulations in force, and believes that there is no point in changing that much, just to put a little pee here and there in the law and bureaucracy, and then everything should be so much better. I don't think so. The case-handling time has become a major problem for builders of micro, mini and small power plants. I recently spoke to a builder of a micropower plant. He had waited over a year for a response to his enquiry. It shouldn't take that long for that type of power plant. Therefore, my question is: does the Council not see that delegating the concession authority to each municipality for smaller hydropower plants will of course lead to a much faster procedure? It will also provide increased local self-government, which I believe is the centre party and the council are strong followers of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1265	Let me first make it clear once again, as I stressed in my first answer: the case handling time is too long, and that is why a number of measures have been taken. We will follow developments in the course of the procedure carefully in the future. This type of power plant may initially be treated locally under the Planning and Building Act, unless there are conflicts related to these projects, inter alia. environmental conflicts. In that case, concession treatment shall be applied. In recent years, 300 such installations have been treated under the Planning and Building Act, while a much smaller number have been treated under the Concession Act. Now that there is so much concessional treatment, and probably a major part of it must have a concession, it means that these are facilities to which conflicts are linked, which means that they cannot be treated locally. We have a general national responsibility for these kinds of things as well. It is also – as I said in my first answer – necessary in some cases to see more installations in the context. It has to do with exploiting water strands, and it has to do with network capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1272	Yes, I thank you once again for the Council's reply. I don't think it seems like the Council of State is willing to take any major steps to shorten the processing time for this type of small power plant. I think that is very disappointing. We know that we need increased hydropower production in Norway. With regard to this type of power plant we are talking about here, it is perhaps both the fastest and the easiest way to quickly achieve new production in Norway. I registered that the CEO of Småkraft AS, Rein Husebø, was out in the evening post on October 4th and said that in the next year, if everything went on rails, you might realize 3 TWh within the power production segment we are talking about here. That seems pretty good. Then I'll follow up where I ended last: why in the world can't the concession assessment be transferred to the municipalities? Does the Council of State consider that the municipalities are unable to carry out this concessional assessment of a number of these power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1279	This does not mean that I am not interested in taking any action to shorten the processing time in the NVE. On the contrary, we have taken a number of steps. It also takes time for the NVE to strengthen the manning necessary for proper concessional treatment. However, what I do not intend to cut down on is to have a proper concession treatment, where the decisions taken are to be ex post, both in relation to local opinion and in relation to environmental conflicts, and also in relation to the fact that the development is to be carried out in the most robust and good way possible. At that point, I do not intend to compromise. This means that there is a need for thorough treatment, which we must make as effective as possible within the framework of the situation there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1290	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In connection with Telenor’s sale of Telenor Satellite Services, State Secretary Frode Berge stated: ‘In general, it is important for the board of a company to follow clear signals from its majority victory.’ [[TSS]] [[TSS]] Do the Councils agree to such opinions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1299	First, I would like to stress that the Council of Ministers of Navarsete has not stated that she will cast the director of Telenor. What she actually pointed out and agreed to was that there is a need for an active ownership policy, and that she will support the Minister of Industry and Trade if he chooses to take action, understood in Telenor. The sale of TSS has been carried out following an assessment by the Board of Directors of Telenor. Before the final treatment on the board, they knew that the state had remained Norwegian-owned, either by Telenor or by other Norwegian industrial owners, on the basis of industrial and strategic objectives and the efforts we want in space and satellite activities. The Telenor Board is accountable to all its owners. But we want the state's and government's industrial and strategic assessments to be known. At the same time, the statutory division of roles between the board and the owner must be followed. This means, in practice, that there will be cases where the Board of Directors takes decisions other than those requested by the individual owner. If the State or other shareholders are dissatisfied with the work of the Board, it must be addressed in the election of the Board. Governing Board elections will be based on an overall assessment of the company’s development and the efforts and performance of the Board of Directors. There will be a discretionary and concrete assessment of whether disagreement on individual cases will have consequences for the choices to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1310	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I refer to in my question is what has been in the media, among other things. in the NRK and the Newspaper. Nor have I seen that the Minister for Transport or the Secretary of State have corrected these statements. It only merges into the sequence in the case of fuzzy signals in relation to the management of state ownership. The Council of State has probably recorded a significant opposition in its own rows here in the Storting regarding the way the State manages its ownership. Does the Council of State not consider that the Shares Act should be amended at least before government members give consideration to reasons other than those laid down in current laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1319	In the question, in the form of a quote, reference was made to State Secretary Frode Berge, who was correctly quoted. In the case of the National Council of Navarsete, it was a representation that was not correct in relation to the print we have of the NRK program to which it was referred. That's why I nuanced between the two. When it is said that there is an opposition – whether it was the Council of State or the Government it was meant to be – on the parliamentary basis of the Storting, I totally disagree with that. There are very clear signals from the Government and from the government parties in Stortinget that we are impatient to produce a much more clear and clear ownership policy. Providing ownership signals does not require changes to the Share Act. The stock law relating to options and how that kind of thing is to be treated is currently in force. to be treated here in Stortinget. As for our position as owner, it will be clearly expressed through the ownership message, in a way that I believe the representative Korsberg and others will perceive as clear and clear, if there is any disagreement about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1326	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That there is an opposition to the Government and impatience in waiting for the ownership message, I think everyone has registered. It has been well over a year since the government joined, and it has not yet been possible to provide the ownership message. So, in the political debate, there is still disagreement as to whether the government is not taking any active action to complete the ownership message. It also gives some vague signals to the private shareholders acting on Oslo Stock Exchange. Is the State Council satisfied with the job that the Telenor Board of Directors has done with regard to the company's price development on the stock exchange?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1335	In terms of ambiguity towards other shareholders, it is my clear objective, and I believe that I have achieved so far, to act clearly as one of the several owners of that company. That's where we're supposed to be clean. The board should have its tasks, and we as owners should clearly express our industrial ambitions with our ownership. In this way, anyone acting on the Stock Exchange can be confident that at least the State shall be a clean owner. In addition, we have to be a clear owner. Of course, as far as the Telenor board is concerned, any government is assessed on an ongoing basis, but evaluated as we approach a general assembly. It's going to happen to the Telenor government, like any other government. It is correct, as the representative points out, that the course development in Telenor is good. I'm glad. It's true that the third quarter accounts show very good numbers. I am, of course, pleased about that, and it should be assessed in relation to other results achieved by the Governing Board in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1346	‘The daily economy recently reported on red-green politicians who believed that the government’s proposal for a sky-high yield from Statkraft was due to the company’s lack of willingness to take the government’s signals seriously. SV’s Depositary Representative Inge Ryan specifically mentioned Statkraft’s lack of commitment to bioenergy. SP's depositor Ola Borten Moe thought Statkraft had to discharge its foreign involvement. Has the Government given concrete guidance and signals to Statekraft, which the company has not followed up on?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1353	The Government has designed its proposal for dividends from Statkraft based on knowledge that capital has so far not been restrictive in terms of the development of the company's establishment of new production in Norway. The determination of dividends from Government must be seen in the context of the general budgetary situation. In the 2007 budget, we are campaigning for research, innovation, travel, maritime industries, business simplification and the North. The size has previously agreed that Statekraft will compete on equal terms with other power producers, cf. St. Prop. No 53 for 2003-2004 and Innst. S. No 248 for 2003-2004 on the same subject. Furthermore, it is envisaged that the company should focus on its core competence and that State power should concentrate on the conduct of profitable trading and production of renewable energy, but with a view to operating activities naturally related to it. It states that any investment outside the Nordic region should take place together with industrial partners. This is the current framework The Stortinget has set for the exercise of ownership in Statkraft, which has laid the basis for all contacts between the owner and the company. I see the statements to which Mr Solvik-Olsen refers as constructive reflections on what should lie in an active ownership policy in the future. As you know, the government is now working on a separate statement on ownership policy, which I will present to the Stortinget later in the fall session. In the Communication, this government’s ownership strategy for State Power will be put into practice. This will include the framework to be applied to the renewable energy work of Statkraft, research and development efforts, and the assumptions that will apply to investments abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1362	I record that the Council of State does not respond to my real question, namely whether there have been signals from the Government that the company has not followed up. That's what representatives Inge Ryan and Borten Moe use to justify making a profit so high, a profit that goes across all the signals that the red-green parties gave when they themselves were in opposition. Then the maximum yield percentage of about 50 was a good suggestion, they meant red-green. When you take 98 pst, there has to be a special reason for that. So that reason came from Inge Ryan, that's because the company doesn't follow the government's own signals. I would like to see the Council of State respond to this. Is Inge Ryan right in that State power does not behave as they should in relation to the owner's signal? Or have the representatives Ryan and Borten Moe made solo recordings here that aren't right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1369	First, the representative's claim of a cloud-high dividend. I understand that it can be formulated this way, because the dividends that were collected this year are on the level of what it did under the previous government. So the high yield is not sensational. This has been a common practice. But it's true that we've been skeptical about it and will come back to mention of it in the context of the ownership announcement. When it comes to giving signals to State power and others, especially whole-time state companies, our ambition is that the ownership message should add up to giving signals to the owner in a way that makes it possible to control by the signals. This means, of course, that the signals are not to be given via the dividend policy, but that they are to be given by the owner prior to the processes that companies are to operate. It's in the context I'm saying that I perceive the input of the two representatives mentioned as a recording of the process, which is about clear, clear ownership strategies in the ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1378	I thank you for your answer. Obviously, the government's policy cannot be defended on the basis of what the representatives Ryan and Borten Moe make in the media. It shows that you have solo players in the area, but that's to the extent of the government's problem. What I'm more concerned about is that the Council of State in the answer says that e.g. The lost Moe's performance is a constructive performance in the government's work on ownership and state power, for Borten Moe has been very clear that state power should not engage abroad. I think it is quite alarming if we are now suddenly to refuse Norwegian companies of the calibre to engage in the energy market abroad. What I also react to is that the Council of State said in its first reply that there was no signal from Statekraft that this dividend would be a problem for Statekraft's equity, when we know that the Governor of Statekraft said on 9 October the following to Bergen's Official Journal: ‘It is very disappointing that the country takes 98 per cent of the profit or loss in dividends. State power needs several billions in fresh capital.» The question is: does the State want State power to invest abroad, or is State power to be a purely national company?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1394	I keep in mind that there is an opportunity for the Government to record with regard to the ownership notification also with regard to any engagement abroad, but the Government has not given any signal to Government that that involvement is problematic or will cease. So it's the representative of the owner who answers the representative, who's asking what's the government's official policy. With regard to the reference to the Governor of State Power – it was well – about equity, what I said in my answer, was that the huge dividends that have been taken out now, and that have been taken out earlier from State Power, have not prevented the business development that State Power has wanted to pursue. It is a reality. Over a few years ago, state capital was strengthened in response to the need for new investment, but the withdrawal this time does not destroy the ability of State to invest and act in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1405	‘Styret in Oslo Airport AS has decided to build a new car park that will increase the parking capacity of private cars on the Gardermoen. Have assessments been made in this context of the impact on public transport of the aerodrome, which has reduced its share of passenger traffic year after year?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1412	The aim of the Ministry is to strengthen public transport as a means of achieving good performance and improving the environment. It's the government's policy. Oslo Airport AS, a wholly owned subsidiary of Avinor AS, is responsible for facilitating parking at the airport. I think functional parking conditions at the airport are necessary. Therefore, I do not intend to intervene in the company's development of parking capacity at the present time. But I want to clarify for Avinor the responsibility of the company to ensure that a high collective part is kept up. This will also be clearly specified in the owner's notice on the activities of Avinor, which the Government intends to present to the Storting in a short time. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the national policy guidelines adopted in the context of the planning of new main airfields set out a 50 pst collective objective. The translation is confirmed in St. prp. No 90 for 1991-1992, Development and financing of the main Oslo area airport on the Gardermoen with associated accommodation system and defence implications. Here it is stated that it should be realistic to achieve the goal of a collective part of 50 pst. That is to say, at today’s 59 - pst collective part. is still well above the goal. The extent to which the collective part of the Airports in the other Nordic capitals applies, it may be said that in 2005 Arlanda had a collective part of 43 pst, while Kastrup has a very high collective part. Nearly three times as many passengers take trains in relation to those who use a private car. Finally, I would like to refer to the Government's general measures to increase its share of passenger transport in public transport, and once again stress that it is a goal for the Government to keep up and expand the collective part of transport to our main airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1425	I am pleased that the Council of State says that she will clarify to Avinor that the objective of a high collective share should be kept up. I'm also aware that we're still over 50 pst. which is set as a premise from the Storting. But then I'm nervous, because this collective share is falling instead of rising in a situation where we have such a strong focus on getting transition from road to train, not least in the Oslo region. I have registered that the management of the OSL says something like that the market decides, and that it is completely inappropriate on the part of the airport to downgrade the availability and parking facilities of cars, in order to force more people to choose public transport to the main aerodrome. My problem is that we also know that the road system in Akershus, the road system against Gardermoen, is under pressure. The objectives of the OSL should not be overshadowed by the ambitions of high collective participation in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1432	I share the concern of the representative Sundsbø that more and more cars are going to the airport. It is not desirable, either according to the general state of the road network or according to the large traffic in the area. Of course, it is not inconceivable from an environmental point of view and many other points of view. Therefore, on the basis of, inter alia, This question is addressed with Avinor the duty they have to see their work as part of the society of which they themselves are part. The airport – OSL and Avinor, which is the parent company – have a responsibility, of course, not only to control the market, but also to take political action. And for the government that is now ruling, the political signal is clear: we want a bet on public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1437	I thank you for your answer. It shows that the Government will follow this up with the development of the passenger transport to Gardermoen and bet collectively. That's what was the starting point for the questioner, so I thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1446	‘The Council of State has stated that the Government will implement projects already under way. E18 through Eastfold and Akershus is such a project. KS1 shall be a tool for better government governance with planning and ensure that the most relevant options are explored. There is disagreement between the municipalities concerned as to which routes for the new E18 from Elvestad to Winterbro are to be investigated. This can lead to great delays. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that this route is subject to KS1 treatment as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1453	The Ministry of Transport has, in the complementary guidelines of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency on the relationship between the national transport plan, NTP, and KS1, external quality assurance in the early stages, done well for the scheme of KS1. The external quality assurance scheme, KS1 and KS2, ultimately in a later phase, is a liability for State investment over 500 million. kr. KS1 shall be implemented at an early stage as the basis for an overarching policy decision in the Government on the choice of project or concept. The aim of KS1 is to better manage the planning of large projects at an early stage. Prioritisation between different projects shall take place through NTP. E18 from Sweden to Knapstad in Østfold is under development during the current planning period and does not meet the requirement for project processing after KS1. Further development of E18 from Knapstad in Eastfold to Winterbro in Akershus is under planning. NTP does not foresee investments on this route in the period 2006-2015. The project must be quality-verified according to the guidelines in KS1 before it can be prioritised in NTP. Planning of E18 from the Eastfold border to Winterbro after planning and building law started in 2001. In the context of impact management and community plans, there is no doubt about the options to be passed on to final management, under this ski option which will lead to the connection of E18 to E6 north of Winterbro.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1462	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council's description of KS1. It also says in St. prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Finance that some of the projects to be included in the NTP 2010-2019 may be exempted from the KS1. This situation is now with regard to getting E18 in place from the Swedish border and all the way to Oslo, we need to raise our eyes a little bit. We need to take some principle decisions so that we can identify the most likely pathways in relation to the population and in relation to resource use and how much money we need to spend on different investigations. Our challenge to the Council of State, which was also addressed in the hearings with the Committee yesterday, is that we are now looking up a little, so that we can get an investigation in place in relation to which pathways are most likely not life-created.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1471	I fully agree with what has been said by the representative Holten Hemdal that it is necessary to get the planning of the E18 in place and into good practice. I have this project in focus. I know that Eastfold County is waiting for clarification. They are also keen in their dialogue with the Council of State on this. I'm going to do my job so that it doesn't drag out more in time than is absolutely necessary, until we get the necessary processes in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1476	I thank you for the good clarification of the Council of State, that we should not spend more time than is absolutely necessary to get good practice in place. It is now important, both for the Akershus population and for the Eastfold population, that we do not go back to the trasé elections in Akershus, because then there will be a great delay. This is an important national road — in relation to high traffic but also in relation to road safety for normal users. This is what I want to challenge the Council of States to, that she's taking the right steps now, so that we get the effort that we need on this important route.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1481	I am working on a briefing on the Eastfold package, and under this E18 issue, which I am going to present to the Stortinget. I'll come back to Stortinget with something more complete about this, and it won't take very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1490	‘The forecast of growth in road traffic in national transport plans continued in individual projects is significantly lower than the actual growth of traffic. This means that new roads are dimensioned incorrectly. Such errors may include: result in the need for upgrades/extensions to report earlier than normal and with the associated additional costs. This kind of management provides a poor economy for society. How will the Council of State ensure that both road plans and concrete road projects are based on more realistic traffic forecasts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1497	I have previously answered an almost identical question from the representative Arne Sortevik. That was question No. 866 for written answers. There is not so much more I can say about this than I did at the time, but I can use the opportunity again to inform you about what is being done to make as good predictions of the traffic as possible. It will never be an easy task to predict traffic. This applies not only to road traffic but also to other modes of transport. The driving forces for the development of traffic, the choice of means of transport and travel are combined, and of course not known for years to come. One may not expect to meet well for individual years, but it is important that over several years we are not consistently too high or too low in relation to actual developments. In the directions given by the Departments for Eta and Avinor AS for their preliminary work on the NTP, it is clear that they need to work together to produce forecasts that are as forward-looking as possible. In the follow-up, transport modes and research and distribution institutions are involved. For freight and passenger transport, this includes: developed better models to help us create better projections. It is also important that we use projections for economic development and population consistent with those used in other planning. Both the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bureau of Statistics are therefore involved in the forecasting work. It's per. I can assure you that I am currently not making new projections, but I can assure you that the most realistic predictions will be the basis for transport planning, both in connection with the NTP and in connection with the design of the individual projects. I am confident that this will be the result of the ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1508	I thank you for your answer. It's both interesting and promising. But it was the case that when the Stortinge in 2004 dealt with the transport plan that we just started, there was also concern about the forecasts, and it was expressed a desire from the Ministry to make better forecasts with greater emphasis on the benefits of the forecasts for planning purposes. Unfortunately, when we turn back a few years, we see that there have been a lot more traffic growth than the 1.5 pst. which is now included as the official planning figure. Then the question is whether we have to wait for a new transport plan in 2010 before doing anything about this factor that is involved and dimensional and prioritize new road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1515	As I said in my written reply to Sortevik earlier, and as I repeated now, we have new traffic development forecasts in preparation. In this work, take into account the experience gained in the previous national transport plan. I will take with me the concerns expressed by the representative Sortevik – as I share them – because no one is interested in us building our plans on wrong intentions. And put a traffic rate too low, a significant premise is wrong, because it's exactly the traffic rate that might be with and to a large extent the dimensions expand at least single sections, and maybe also the totality. I have this with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1520	Thank you, that's good. And it is not the representative of Sortevik alone who is concerned about this. The Transport Committee has just visited Oppland and Hedmark, and the same concern arose. Yesterday, during the hearing of the Committee on Transport's budget, the same concern and frustration were repeated by the rapporteur-general in Eastfold, who has specific projects for the development of E18 and, in fact, is building with poor assumptions, so that new parsels are undersized by the opening. Therefore, the main concern is that, while we are working on the basis of a new transport plan to be in force from 2010, we actually operate at different levels on a number of road projects that are towards start-up – or are in the process of starting up – and that are actually based on wrong traffic. Traffic growth has been between 3 and 5 pst over a number of years, and we're planning to build for 1.5 pst. growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1527	In the written answer that I mentioned earlier, it is stated that the analyses that are now being done, and which hopefully will be completed during the winter – I suppose that is, at least the signals that I have received – will also be available at project level when they are finished and quality safe. There will then be some wishful comments from country spokesmen and others who are of course concerned that one does not get the right dimensions of the road projects. So I hope that when we get into 2007, we're going to have new projections, and then one can use them to quality the projects one already has in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1537	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion: ‘A 70-year-old woman in the Vesterålen applied to the Auxiliary Centre for the Loan of Trimcycles on the recommendation of the ergotherapy service in the municipality. She was refused on the grounds that the age limit for lending such equipment is 26 years. It seems very unreasonable that the lending of equipment from the assistance centre for training is age-limited and not guided as necessary. Could the Council of State help to change the legislation so that documented needs provide a basis for the loan of equipment from the Emergency Centre irrespective of age?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1546	An age limit of 26 years has been set to provide support for training, stimulation and activation aids. From 1996 up to 18 years of age, children and young people were entitled to this type of aid and the age limit for 2003 was raised to 26 years. The reason for this was to provide benefits also to those who become disabled in their youth, especially traffic damage. This type of aid helps to limit the medical and social adverse effects of such disability. It is considered particularly important that children and young people receive this type of aid. However, tricycles are no longer part of the range of auxiliary centres, i.e. that children and young people under the age of 26 can no longer benefit from trim bikes as a means of training, stimulation and activation. The 2004 State budget proposed some reductions in social benefits for some aids that have become relatively cheap and are also common to the population as a whole. This was also done to strengthen other measures and thereby better target the scheme. As a consequence, ergometers and other training cycles were removed from the range lists. The former Rikstrøgdeverket, now NAV, also suggested in December 2005 that a general lifting of the age limit for training and stimulation aids would lead to a cost increase in the population’s population of just under 100 million. kr. If the age limit is raised only for training aids, this will lead to an increase in expenditure of about EUR 10 million. Forty-four million. kr. However, such legislative changes have not yet been prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1555	I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that there are questions about money that have been restricted here, even when previous governments have dealt with this issue. But what's the matter here is that this woman, who's specifically mentioned in my question, got this message: you can't get a trim bike, but you can get an electric wheelchair with a garage, or you can get a motorized stairlift. Could there be some kind of logic in this, that if you just get bad enough, then the purse opens? That's really what my question is about. There must be a hole to close here for a government that likes to have people rehabilitated quickly, because the cost just gets bigger and bigger when the plague increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1564	At least I don't want to draw the limit where the representative Jan Sahl is now trying to draw it. The limit is in the direction that all people, regardless of disability, injury or disease, must be prepared for some costs to be covered even by their own social security, pension or income. If, because of a disability, injury or disease, very large, or disproportionate costs are incurred, society will have schemes that are supportive. Therefore, there are no arrangements for borrowing a tricycle anymore. Well, I guess both I and the representative Sahl might have to come up on occasion, but we have to sort that out ourselves, just like everyone else. But should we ever get into the situation that we need to rebuild a car, an electric wheelchair or get that kind of expenses – and that's 100 000 kroner – it could be socially exclusive if we didn't get support. But we're going to get our backs on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1571	I thank you again for the answer, and understand that the minister has no plans to look further at this problem. This is a matter raised by the Trade Union, the Norwegian Handicap Association, the Organisation of the Disabled and other user organisations. I can't see it any other way than that it can be a matter of limiting costs if you can offer appliances at an early stage – now I'm ignoring trim bicycles, which you can't borrow anymore – that can make you feel better about your health. In this case, there was a retired person with bad advice. Let's say it's a 27-year-old with poor advice asking for training help, who doesn't realize that the age limit is set to 26 years. Isn't it true that maybe you should look at and test this more closely rather than set an artificial age limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1578	Let me first start by saying that this tightening of the legislation was done by the previous government. What we're doing now is continuing the policy that former government council Hojbrätten implemented when he sat in my chair. That's point one. The second is that there is no doubt that we are going to have an active policy in the area of aid, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. But I think that we're going to be able to do it, it can't be that all the equipment for training and activity etc. will be financed by the public – then we can say in the next round that he needs very good jogging shoes to get out and move on. A couple of good jogging shoes today often cost more than a trim bike. I think it's very artificial to draw a limit to this kind of general training activity that Sahl expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1585	Questions 14 to 19 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1592	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘In the context of the discussion on the reconstruction of the old Steinmeyer organ in Nidarosdomen, there has been a lack of clarity about the responsibilities. In a letter from the Ministry of Culture and the Church to the Riksantikvaren, the Department disclaims responsibility for this organ case. It is known that the unique organ from 1930, which still serves as the main organ of the national sanctuary, is in a wretched constitution and needs restoration. How does the Council of State evaluate the organ case, and what will he do to find a solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1601	The ministry's letter, to which the representative Lånke refers in his question, is the answer to an enquiry from the Riksantikvaren where the department is asked to clarify who is the owner of the Nidaros cathedral with furniture, including the Steinmeyer organ. In its reply, the Ministry has argued that Nidarosdom is in a special legal position, but that in the Ministry's opinion it is not necessary to decide who has the ownership of the church building with furniture in this context. As in all church administration, one will have to distinguish between the property issue and who has the administrative or financial responsibility for the church buildings and their furnishings. The central question in this case is not who owns the Steinmeyer organ, but where the administrative responsibility for drawing up plans for any restoration or reconstruction of the organ lies. The ministry is of the opinion that through its general administrative responsibility for the churches in Trondheim, Trondheim Church Council is also responsible for furniture and equipment in Nidarosdomen, including the cathedral gel. It also appears to be consistent with the understanding of the Trondheim Congregational Council, which, by March and June of this year at the latest, has taken decisions on further progress in the organ case. The decisions show that the Joint Council's progress plans require close contact with the restoration work of Nidaros Domkirke, who, on behalf of the State, has the administrative responsibility for the church's antique maintenance, and also with the Bishop of the Riksantikvaren and Nidaros. I am prepared that the Trondheim Joint Council may at some point wish to bring the matter before the Ministry, and will of course decide on such an enquiry if it should come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1612	First, I have to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the success of the anniversary celebration! So I thank you for the answer, which in some ways was a little more clarifying than the letters that have gone into the matter. Nevertheless, I would like to go a little further. I assume that the Council of State also agrees that Nidarosdom will in the future be Norway's national sanctuary and will not be considered in line with any other church in the country. The question then concerns the repatriation of this perhaps the largest organ in Northern Europe – we are talking about a significant cultural memory. It was built in front of the 900th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad. At the time, the state and the ministry were both responsible for the reconstruction and were involved in financing parts of this organ together with private donors. So whatever law and departmental definition power: can the ministry not disclaim political responsibility for this clenoia Will the Council confirm that the department will answer yes when the enquiry may come from the Council of Churches? [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1619	The President must ask the representative to respect the time!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1622	The representative Lånke does not need very much time to convince me that Nidarosdomen is in a very special position in Norwegian church history and Norwegian history. The State has taken a great deal of responsibility through the restoration work, and in fact through an operating grant, so that Nidarosdom is one of the few churches in Norway that have a grant directly from the State budget. The point here is, who is sitting in the driver's seat around a possible restoration of the Steinmeyer organ? It must be Trondheim's church council. It is clear that there can be – probably not surprisingly – an application for money to support the project. Then we have to decide. It probably depends a little on what the entire financing package looks like. There has been a great deal of progress in the field of church economics since the examples that Ola T. Lånke referred to, so here are the local councils responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1629	I thank you for the answer, which I understand is well on the way, even before the application has arrived. At least I take the answer as a very positive signal that you would like to meet such an application. I understand that Trondheim's church council is responsible for running the process. That's not what we're asking. When the organ in Oslo Cathedral was to be restored, we know that the department was heavy with many millions of dollars – I think it was 5 million. kr in support of the repatriation of the organ there. At that time, former Minister of Church and Education Gudmund Hernes stood up and blew two organ pipes – at least according to the evening post from that time, and I think it was called a glan number from Hernes’ side – to demonstrate that the state would be involved and take responsibility for this. Can we see that the Council of State Giese also does the same thing, that he's standing and blowing in organ pipes from the Steinmeyer organ, to demonstrate that the state will be on the team and take its share, so that we finally get this amazing klenoie back?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1636	I, who come from a family full of church organists, understand the meaning of this. If I'm going to blow the church organ pipes or if I'm going to try the keys instead, we're going to see if there's such a restoration project. I'm happy for the representative Lånke's involvement in the case. I hope that the local church authorities take the responsibility they have. Then, of course, the ministry will cooperate in the best possible way in order for the Nidarosdom to emerge in the beauty of our national sanctuary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1647	I have allowed myself to promote the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘For many years in Hamarøy and Nordland it has been working to realize the Hamsun Centre with location in Hamarøy. Municipalities and county councils have made available a significant amount of equity. This has not been lacking in political promises. State involvement in the project. In August 2009 the 150th anniversary of our most famous and read author, Knut Hamsun. Will the Council of State now ensure that State financial assistance is put in place so that the Hamsun Centre can be ready for the 150th anniversary marking?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1656	This is a matter mentioned in the budget proposal with an application amount of 32 million. kr from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. Of this sum, 21 million is. kr already granted. In meeting with the county council of Nordland on 8 August this year and a new meeting on 25 October, the Ministry of Culture and the Church was informed that the cost of the project has increased from 70 million. NOK 82 million. kr, and that the project costs are divided into two: 60 million. NOK to the building and SEK 22 million. kr for exhibition and contents in the building. The County Council informed that the municipality of Hamarøy and the county municipality of Nordland have allocated a total of 28 million. kr to the building. The building itself will then be financed with a grant of 32 million. kr from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. With regard to the status of financing of exhibition and content in the planned building, the Ministry of Culture and the Church is briefed on the commitment of 1.5 million. NOK 22 million in need. kr. The Ministry has been informed that efforts are being made to provide funding for the remaining part of the project. In line with the practice of the Ministry of Culture and the Church always follow in assessing grants for such investment projects, the Ministry will be able to promote proposals for funding the project when the means of exhibition and content in the building are in place, i.e. when the project is fully funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1667	I thank you for the answer, which I can't even see bringing the matter a millimeter further. I honestly don't think you can compare the question of the realization of the Hamsun Centre with everything else you have of applications that the Council of State in this context chooses to call for similar projects. What has been the case is that the municipality of Nordland has taken the initiative to raise both local and county capital. It is not least strange that the project is increasing in costs as time goes on. The order must be in place before you can even invite sponsors to get this project, which goes on the decorating part, so-called fully funded. This is about political will. From the point of view of the Council of State here, I wonder whether the political will of the state is present on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1674	I appreciate the commitment of the representative Kristiansen, both in relation to Hamsun, the Hamsun Center and the 150th anniversary. I know the matter well from my time in the Culture Committee in the last big time period. Then we were also the proponents for this. But the representative is simply wrong when he says that government funding must be in place first, and then sponsors and private, public and local investors will be put in place afterwards. In all projects, regardless of whether there is a project for hundreds of trillions of dollars or, as in this case, a project for 82 million. it is an explicit condition on the part of the State that the full financing must be in place before the State grants its funds. It's always like that, anniversary or not. The reason for this is that you do not want to risk a project being half-completed, so that you stand without funding for the end part, and that government money is locked up in projects that are not yet feasible. Therefore, it is an explicit premise that local authorities have to do the whole job, not just half, in obtaining local funding. And then, of course, we'll be as positive in position as we were in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1681	I register that the Council of State believes that I am wrong. In fact, here we are dealing with an application from a legally and economically responsible entity, namely the municipality of Nordland County. If the Council of State looks at this issue about the same way as if a sports team were applying for drugs, I'm just recording that he has that approach to this issue. But will the Council of State be willing to take a meeting and enter into a dialogue with, for example, the municipality of Hamarøy, to see if this project can be carried on? Fortunately, we rarely see a large national — and international — case as a defensive approach. This is about political will. The question is then, in order to try to bring the matter to the fore: Is the Council willing to take an initiative on this issue in order to have a dialogue with those who have taken the leading and best initiatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1686	I am uncertain whether the representative Kristiansen was a little inattentive when I gave my first answer, where I showed that we had a meeting with the county council on 8 August and 25 October – i.e. two meetings in three months. So there is not a lack of meetings here, but there is a lack of full funding locally. One can't expect the department, which has been willing to set aside $32 million. kr – exactly the same amount as the Kristians own government, the previous government, had committed – should also do the job of obtaining the local funds. The county must do that. We have communicated that clearly to the county council, and we expect that job to be done. The last number we have is 1 and 1/2 million. NOK 22 million. kr to the last part of the project. The project as a whole must be fully funded, and the day it is in place, we will of course follow up on what we have said in the opposition, and as we say in the position, that we will carry out the project of getting to a Hamsun Center.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1695	I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘We have recently seen several documentaries on serious adverse reactions to vaccine programmes. The questions they raise are important to those directly affected and to avoid similar problems in the future. It is essential that people have great confidence in the vaccine programmes, and that the digestion of them is close to 100 pst. Otherwise we can get more cases of, among other things. contagious meningitis. What will the Council of State do to increase confidence in the vaccine programmes and to ensure that all children receive the necessary vaccines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1704	Norway has a long tradition of using vaccines to prevent infectious diseases in children and adults. In the past, as the questioner knows well, some vaccines, such as vaccine against copper and tuberculosis vaccine, mandatory. Today, as you know, all vaccination is voluntary. The aim of providing vaccines in a national vaccination programme is to prevent serious illness and death in individuals, but also to increase the general immunity of the population in order to prevent infection. Today, the national vaccination programme is enshrined in the Law of 5 August 1994 on the protection of infectious diseases and in the Regulation of 3 April 2003 on the Community’s health promotion and prevention in the health and school health services. According to this legislation, the municipality is to provide all pre-school children and children of primary school age with vaccination according to a specific childhood vaccination programme. It is as well-known health centre and school health service that will inform and implement vaccination according to the programme. The National Institute for Public Health provides details of the professional content of the programme, including the vaccines to be included, target groups and frequency of vaccination. The vaccines in the programme shall prevent a number of diseases in children, including tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis, meningitis, tuberculosis, polymyelitis and several other paediatric diseases. The last time was known as the Pneumococcal Vaccine Prevenar, which included: shall prevent pneumonia, meningitis and other infections caused by pneumococcal infections included in the vaccination programme from 1 July of this year. Today, according to the paediatric vaccination programme, the vaccination coverage in children is above 90 pst. Working for high levels of vaccination coverage has been and remains an important field of activity. The main measure to increase confidence in the pediatric vaccination programme is targeted information for users. Health professionals in municipalities are key people to strengthen this trust. It is those who have direct contact with parents and children, and it is the local health care sister and doctor who are perceived to be most credible by parents who assess whether they should have their children vaccinated. It is therefore essential that health sisters and doctors are well informed and remain safe in relation to the vaccines in the paediatric vaccination programme. Their knowledge must be based on expertise and accurate information so that they can provide information in a good way on the diseases against which it is vaccinated, both the consequences of examining the diseases and the possible risks of vaccination. There is a lot of good work today, both at the central level and in the municipalities, to ensure that vaccination coverage is as high as possible. Work on knowledge dissemination, information and support for community health professionals will also be intensified in the near future. I would like to stress the importance of parents having confidence in the vaccines offered to their children under the pediatric vaccination programme. It is therefore important that all questions raised include: in the TV 2s Document 2 programmes on 9 and 16 October respectively, and mentioned in the Dagens Medisin on 12 October, are fully illuminated. The Institute of Public Health has previously been asked to make a written statement on these matters. The statement from the Institute of Public Health is on its way to my table now, and I will immediately go through it carefully to assess what follow-up we are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1726	I would like to ask an additional question related to things that appeared in these TV 2 documentaries. This applies, inter alia, to: That it was just 57 pst. of those who went through the extensive vaccination programme who became immune to meningitis. There were adverse reactions in such a large number as 512 – including some very serious adverse reactions, which were not accurate in a small number. Unfortunately, some of the latter also had to undergo very burdensome and long processes to obtain compensation. So I want to ask whether the Council of State will look at whether the quality assurance procedures for major vaccination programmes are good enough, including the procedures for following up those who may be exposed to side effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1733	Yes, I believe it is absolutely essential that we have confidence in the vaccines that have been offered to our young people, and it is of course also essential that the quality assurance procedures are very good. I would like to await the statement from the Institute of Public Health on the specific questions raised in Document 2 – I did not like what I saw there either. So it's right around the corner, and I'll immediately go through it, and also suggest how we're going to follow it up. I can't go into the details any more until I have done so, but I can assure the asker that this is going to happen very quickly. It is absolutely essential that if something goes wrong, you also have some routines to follow it in different ways. But this I will come back to as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1740	I thank you for the answers. I want to add another problem. The council says that 90 pst. coverage has been achieved in relation to the degree of vaccination. It is also necessary in order not to undermine the immunity of the population. Some places in the country have spread concerns about some cases of tuberculosis and some cases of meningitis with tragic outcomes for children. A natural question has been about the vaccination coverage there is good enough, for behind the number, 90 pst., it can hide huge variations from cultural and social conditions. What I want to ask is whether the Council of State will look into how the vaccination coverage is for different groups of different places in the country, in order to get the basis for possibly putting in special bets to get the coverage up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1745	I would first like to say that I fully agree with the questioner, and that I share the concern that I perceive that the questioner has in relation to some of the developments we have seen in the late days, perhaps especially in some places in this city. I am concerned that we should go through this in order to ensure that it is within the framework we have, namely volunteering, at least very well informed as to why it is important to vaccinate, what the consequences – both for a sea and for society at large – may be if you choose not to do so. So I can answer confirming that this we want to go into more detail and see if there might be a need to put in special bets in some places.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1754	I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘The new Patient Rights Act grants patients who do not receive a public offer within a specified period of time the right to treatment at private clinics. In a chronicle in the Evening Post, Falkum, who is formerly chief and superior at the Aarhus-related Lillestromklinikken DPS, sends out a serious claim. Patients are rejected as before, in violation of the law, and many are given too few hours of treatment. So to say no one gets any private offer. Can the Council of State ensure that patients are granted their rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1763	The amendments to the Patient Rights Act, which entered into force in September 2004, were known to strengthen patients’ legal rights, including: in relation to the individual deadline for special health care treatment and the subsidiary right to health care in the event of a breach of this deadline. The provision to which the representative Giltun refers shall ensure that patients are granted the right to the necessary health care immediately after a period of grace. Thus, the level of use of private service providers does not reflect whether patients are granted their rights. I would like to stress that I consider the claims made in the evening post to be very serious. I follow this up through the ministry having asked Health East for a written statement on the matter, and Health East has been given a two-week response period. The Ministry is also aware that the Health Authority in Oslo and Akershus has chosen to open the supervisory case at Akershu University Hospital on this matter. I have asked the Health Inspectorate in Oslo and Akershus to be briefed on the outcome of this oversight case. On this basis, I would like to make a more detailed assessment of the case when the Health East statement and the Health Authority conclusion are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1770	I thank you for the answer and I think it is good that the Council of State takes the claims that are made so seriously. There's a lot of evidence that there might be something wrong, or that there's a lot of evidence in the statements. The extension of psychiatry rights and escalation will naturally lead to more people getting the help they have the right and the right to demand. When you see that it was previously 500 penalty breaks per person. Years at this clinic, you can now wonder where these 500 fractures have gone off. Has the average number of treatment hours been reduced? Has the capacity increased so that more people are treated? Is that a logical explanation? You should also look at how many people are being rejected. It is said that approx. 80 pst. of the patients referred to shall receive an offer. Is this going to be fulfilled? These are the things I hope the Council of State will take with us, so that we can prepare this both at this clinic and at other clinics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1779	Yes, I can again stress that I take the matter very seriously. I will of course go into this from all sorts of angles, just as Giltun's representative is here, as soon as I get the statement from Health East and the supervisory report. Then we have to take the matter from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1784	I want the Council of State also to look at a slightly different matter. In psychiatry, there is still no input-based funding system in place, and I would like to ask: is it the case that the Lillestrøm clinic and other similar clinics have to pay for what they get in their framework when they have to refer patients elsewhere because of breach of contract? If that is the case, it is natural that they hesitate very much to send patients off the farm, as this goes directly beyond their own budgets and the possibility of treating patients further. I hope the Council of State will also look at that matter. I trust that the Lillestrom clinic is effective, and that the clinic does what it can to keep the budget. That's good. But it's not good if it turns out that we have a funding system that leads to patients not getting the treatment they're entitled to due to under-budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1791	In general, I have to say that there is a very clear priority on the part of this government: those who need help within the psychiatry and within the ru area will be given even higher priority than those who need help within the somatic environment. We have told our healthcare companies about this for the current year. It's also so that for the first time now it's actually such that the growth is greater within the drug and psychiatry. It's because we're totally dependent on the money being used as we think they should be used, for the benefit of the patients, and that we get to treat the most possible patients. I believe that in the system we have directly through the hospitals, through the psychiatry escalation plan, there is a lot of money in it to take care of those who need help within the psychiatry. That doesn't mean we're in the goal, but I'm going to make sure that we do what we can to follow up, and make sure that the money is used properly, for the benefit of patients, so that we get the most treated, but with a qualitatively good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1800	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘Every year, about 200 people in Finnmark have a stroke for the first time. 2/3 of these get permanent outcomes. Health Finnmark now proposes to include the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in the Medical Department of the Church Hospital. [[FMR]] The result of this will be that the rehabilitation offer we have today will cease. Is it in line with the Government's commitment to rehabilitation to downgrading county-wide offers?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1809	I fully agree with the questioner that it is very important that the rehabilitation offer for stroke patients is started as soon as possible when the patient's condition permits. Where the provision of rehabilitation services within the specialist health service is to be ensured, it is the regional health undertaking that has to be assessed. Victims may be treated in rehabilitation wards, or they may be offered in their own posts or sections for rehabilitation, for example: related to the medical department. Here we have variations. Many stroke patients also need rehabilitation services in the municipality. At this stage, advice and guidance from specialist health services can be very important. Some patients may have problems that are so demanding or rare that there may be a need for hospitalisation in university hospitals. Health Nord has briefed me that on behalf of Health Finnmark HF, Sintef has produced a report on the operation of the Church Hospital. The report, presented in July of this year, proposes a number of measures to improve efficiency. One of the measures is that the patient’s provision at the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department is sought to be integrated into the medical department. This involves a reorganisation, but after I have been informed about it, not a closure of the rehabilitation offer. The administration of Health Finnmark HF is now working on the 2007 budget and is assessing many different measures. Budgetary matters shall be promoted to the Health Finnmark Board at its meeting on 12 December. Health Nord RHF has confirmed that they will follow closely the measures proposed, and in particular consider whether the ‘provide for’ responsibility is respected in the event of any conversion. It's absolutely crucial. I have also been informed that Health Nord has a long-term commitment to strengthen the care of chroniclers, including rehabilitation. I stress that the rehabilitation offer to stroke patients is organised in an appropriate way, so that those who need it get it. In a specialised offer there must be sufficient competent staff and necessary medical devices. I assume that patients from Finnmark will receive the necessary rehabilitation both in the specialist health service and in the municipality, and that Health Nord has a follow-up on this as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1826	I thank you for your answer. The length of hospitalisation and the diagnosis being made determine today whether the hospital or a rehabilitation institution receives the income and how large they become. This creates a conglomerate of calculations, with associated uncertainties and low predictability, not least for small rehabilitation institutions. My next question will then be: will the Council of State consider the funding system for rehabilitation institutions in the context of the rehabilitation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1833	We're spending more on rehabilitation this year than we've done in a very long time, but it's also absolutely necessary, because there's a lot of people who need it to help. The government is very concerned that anyone who needs help will get it at all stages of the hospitals and in the municipalities, when necessary. We see that it doesn't work everywhere as well. There is also a background for the Government to present in a very short time a separate strategy for how we will have the rehabilitation in our country over the years to come. There we probably have to be open because there might be variations. But the point is that we need more rehabilitation and not less, and that's what's the starting point for the job we're in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1838	I also thank you for this answer. As I can see it, it is possible to raise doubts about the legality of putting down the only little rehabilitation offer we have for the population of Finnmark, a small department with only six beds. I show you, among other things: for habilitation and rehabilitation regulations, specifying: «The regional health undertaking shall ensure that persons with permanent residence or residence in the health region are offered and provided with the necessary rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the specialist health service». Furthermore, in the notes to § 12: «Rehabilitation and rehabilitation in specialist health services constitute the services which the regional health undertaking is obliged to provide to the population», and which require specialist competence. And further, in the notes to § 1: «The offer shall be made in or as close as possible to the user's usual environment as practicable and as sound as possible.»; I could show you more documents and plans in this regard. My last question will then be: will the Council of State in its 2007 mission document require action in health businesses to prevent the closure of rehabilitation sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1862	I can confirm that the Government is different, i.e. through a separate rehabilitation strategy and also in the context of the mission document to regional health businesses, of course will also be concerned with rehabilitation, and that we are getting it in practice in all parts of the country. With regard to the cases in Finnmark in particular, as I said in my first answer, at the meeting on 12 December this is decided. I have asked Health Nord to make sure that if there are any changes, the responsibility must be taken care of. That means that someone then has to make sure that someone has an offer that makes those patients who need it actually get an offer. Then it's up to regional health companies within the framework of organizing it the way they think is best. But the point is that patients who need it should have an offer, and Health Nord must make sure that it actually happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1873	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘More municipalities are building up nursing homes for nursing homes. Municipalities refer to economic considerations when they have contacted the county councillors for permission to do so. I fear that there may be a lack of hospitalization facilities so that users with high care needs are not adequately met. What will the Council of State do to ensure that professional and non-economic considerations underpin the choice of form of care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1882	As the questioner is well aware, municipalities have over time placed greater emphasis on the provision of services in their own homes and municipal housing and less emphasis on traditional institutional care. This is a result of professional development, but it is also, of course, a municipal strategy to make better use of resources. I understand that this is essentially a long-term development with good professional reasons, that people can live at home as long as they want it and there are opportunities for it, and that we put great emphasis on what the users themselves want. It is also reasonable for municipalities to assess how the provision of the population can be delivered in the best possible way in relation to the use of economic resources, but to take into account what users themselves want. As is known through the action plan for the care of the elderly and the escalation plan for mental health, almost 25 000 care homes have been built. Nursing homes are built in such a way that they can be used for day-care services, and in 2005 as many as 15 000 nursing home staff were present throughout the day. However, it is a major challenge to ensure that nursing homes are perceived as safe and good services for people with extensive care needs. This is not least about the local economy, which must provide room for employing enough people in this important service. When it comes to the representative's questions, I perceive that this is about municipalities that, without changing the building conditions, change the organisation of the service from home to home. This may, of course, be related to the country’s financing of housing aid, aids, blue prescription medicines and parts of the medical services for non-institutional users, while similar expenditure is the responsibility of municipalities if the services are provided in hospitals. In isolation, this means that the conversion of nursing homes to nursing homes triggers a certain amount of government funding. To the extent that the municipalities that convert the nursing home into homes with home services have received grants for the construction of nursing homes, the Husbank shortens the grant accordingly. First, I would like to stress that the prerequisite for converting decisions from home to home based services is that the offer is as good as before. If the municipality redefines its places of residence, the needs of each resident must be re-evaluated and new individual decisions must be taken for all residents of the hospital. As you know, the individual has access to appeals against the decision. It is, of course, unfortunate if the purpose of maximising transfers from the State is to govern the organisation of the service and the provision of services to the inhabitants. The government has in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, on future care challenges, discussed the issue and various options for more equal treatment of services provided in hospitals and nursing homes. So far, the Government has found that today's drawbacks do not defend the implementation of a comprehensive new reform. The fact that users should not be weakened after conversion suggests that the current system should be maintained until further notice. But there should be professional considerations, i.e. the best of the users, which shall be the basis of the offers, and not economic considerations. I would therefore like to stress that this is a development both myself and the Government will follow very closely, and when we now in that message – the representative is the case rapporteur – we have also signalled that we want a new investment grant to build nursing homes and nursing homes and what is needed in the future, there is no doubt that this is something we are very much aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1897	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am equally deeply concerned. I have recently been in a number of municipalities, and in one case, where also a party trap of the Council of State was present, it was a municipality that had not even built the nursing home, but they had redefined the very home, which was a nursing home. It was really dramatic for some of the people who lived there. The supervisory function was removed, and there are other matters, which were also covered by the Council of State, which will be different if you live in a nursing home. I am concerned that this can be done in a hand-turn in the municipalities. So my question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State know whether this is being done to a large extent in our municipalities, which I have been given the impression of?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1902	From the overview I have per person. Today, there is no reason to believe that this has a large extent. But that happens, that's quite right, there are some examples, and I can fully agree with the questioner that the balance in some municipalities is not good enough in relation to home-based services, nursing homes and nursing homes. I would also like to repeat that I think it is unfortunate if the arrangements we have from the state make some municipalities different from the ones that would be best for the user. The starting point is that the service is organised according to the needs of each user. So, as I've said to the questioner earlier, we're from the government's side of the round we're now going to have in the care notification, open to evaluate all sides. We are following developments very closely and, as I said, are very concerned about this when, if the Storting supports it, we are going to design a new grant scheme for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1907	I thank you again for the answer. Very many parts of the country still lack some health care facilities. In connection with the fact that I have started working on the care message as the case rapporteur, I am also concerned about the sickest of the elderly, and I have seen that in some places people redefine nursing homes even for the most ill patients. It's the same patients lying there, and it's done with economics as justification. The infectious disease regime and the same infectious disease protection requirements are also absent when it comes to nursing homes versus nursing homes, and we have recently seen a development of resistant bacteria that are quite dangerous. This worries me. What I want to ask the Council of State is: can the Council of State imagine going to the municipalities through a circular etc. and warn the municipalities against reorganisation, or at least inform them of the rules that apply, namely that there must be new individual decisions here, and that it must be precisely the needs of patients that govern this, and not the economy, as we see today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1912	I am interested in both clarifying and informing about what needs to be done if conversions are adopted, and what law applies in relation to what users are actually entitled to. I'm very open to do that. I would also like to stress that in our proposal for the new investment grant – as the questioner knows well – one of the requirements is that there is a need for good luck and care. It's a very important criterion. At the same time, we also need to take account of the many users who are now under 67 years of age and who also have needs, as well as the elderly. Like the questioner, I am concerned that we must ensure that there are good enough services for those who need it, and in particular for those who need the most care and care. I will follow this in an appropriate manner and in dialogue with the representative of Davøy and others who are working on this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1919	The size then goes back to the questions 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1926	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Minister for the Protection of the Environment is sticking to the Robbery Agreement of the Storting. It must be clear to the Minister for the Environment that the outcome of the conciliation is that a small part of the country bears the full burden of loss of well-being and income. The northern part of the wolfesson along the Swedish border has become a wolf reserve where most of the land-based industrial activities are gradually displaced without compensation. Does the Council of State consider this type of discrimination to be a sound instrument for good environmental policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1935	The size established by the 2004 agreement a management area for breeding wolves and a stock target of three annual juveniles. The frontier fleets are added. The management area of the wolf includes Østfold, Oslo, parts of Akershus and parts of Hedmark. I answered a similar question a short time ago to a written answer from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen. As I pointed out in this answer, the predators in regions 4 and 5 could in the long run have a room for action in the field of targeted wolf management within the wolf zone. The action room is located among others. in the possibility of geographical demarcation of the scope of breeding authorisations. In this way, the names could influence the presence of wolves in different parts of the management area. However, this space for action is only achieved once the stock target of three Norwegian young wolves has been reached. It is only at that time that the power to take a decision on the quota for contingent damage and the licensing of the predators will be vested in them. This implies, in principle, that the flexibility of wolf management within the wolf zone will be greater when the population has increased slightly beyond the current level. Here it's relevant to draw a parallel to yours management. The stock of yorks is above the stock target, which includes, among other things: This means that spring peaks could be targeted from the point of view of the potential for damage in different parts of the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1946	In Solør we record with great amazement that there are polls that show a great desire to get robbers around the country. In fact, with us, both the traditional business base and new outland-based income opportunities are being displaced with a significant potential now, and it is unremunerated. There is also talk of compensatory measures, but building up bureaucracy, which in turn focuses on airy and resource-intensive fence projects and their likes, does not help those who have lost or lost their nutrient base and their quality of life today. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Minister for the Environment does not lift a finger to defuse the areas and to direct the game management also to those areas that might want something else. Will the Minister for the Environment take seriously the wishes of the majority, deal with the rapprochement and do something active both to reduce the conflicts along the borders of Sweden and to satisfy the vast majority of the Norwegian people who want wolves in their territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1955	I think it is important to emphasise that the government is laying the groundwork agreement from 2004, which was also part of the Right, for its predatory game policy, even in the case of wolves. As long as there is no political basis to derogate from the agreement, the administrative principles that we have set out today will be continued. But I can assure you that I am following developments very closely and have regular contact with the predators, which means that we are constantly seeing how the settlement is implemented in practice, and what consequences it has for different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1960	I'm also dealing with the predatory game deal, and it said something more than just stock goals. It said something about scattered loads, and there were a number of assumptions there. There are not many things that I really see as more fundamentally interesting in relation to Norwegian democracy than today's predatory game management. The extent to which discrimination can be achieved between people and nutritionists within Norway’s borders is not compensated. Does the Minister for the Environment, with his view of value-based life, consider that it is reasonable to use opinion polls carried out in the broad, untouched population to keep a small and heavily affected part of the population in place in relation to taking on a national burden? A society is characterised by how the majority treats the minority when the majority has power. It is not the opinion of the majority that is interesting in this context, but whether the minority feels right and fair. Had environmental policy methods been used within the school yard, for example, it would have been quickly classified as bullying. Is there any way the Minister for the Environment feels a need to defend, or will she take the conflict seriously and see that this is a matter of nutrition and quality of life today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1969	The robberies deal that came in 2004, to which the Storting joined, and which, as I have said before, also the Right was part of, came through democratic processes, how many different interest groups were heard, how many different environments were addressed. So Stortinget has made a decision and said something about what the majority of Norwegians want us to manage our predatory game after. So, of course, as the representative says, there's a conflict between a majority and a minority. We then try to mitigate the conflicts as far as possible, for example. in the proposal we have presented in the 2007 budget, which has thus increased the position of anti-conflict measures and in this way seeks to meet the minority and those affected in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1980	‘Nation’ — in an incubation, the original question said that it was the News Agency of the newspapers — ‘declared on 28 October this year that the People’s Action will not receive support for its work over the top. 1400 Item 70 of the Ministry of the Environment's budget. The reason is that the organisation does not agree that there should be breeding wolves in Norway. Ola Borten Moe, the central party’s biggest representative, calls it undemocratic and says ‘this is similar to political censorship’. Is it the case that only organisations supporting the Government's policy in one or more cases receive support for the State budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1987	The objective group of the Ministry of the Environment's sub-chapter grant scheme. 1400 item 70 is democratically structured, country-wide organisations with environmental protection as their main field of activity. The spectre of environmental protection organisations is great, and organisations are, with their professional understanding and competence, important precursors in the formulation of environmental protection policy. Organisations have a significant role as information channels, opinion-makers and critics. It is desirable to continue this diversity while continuing the principle of allowing organisations to develop on their own premises. I think it is clear to everyone that organisations in many contexts do not agree with the government's environmental protection policy. But we demand that those who receive basic support have environmental protection as their main field of work. Any organisation with the main environmental protection activity will be evaluated. The public reaction to new predatory policies is not the only voluntary organisation working on environmental issues, which has been refused basic support because they do not have environmental protection as their main activity. Just because the Ministry of the Environment wants to enter into dialogue with those who have different positions on predatory policies, the People's Action has been given a permanent place in the Contact Committee for the management of predators. In line with other organisations, inter alia: through representation in advisory forums under the research project Rovvilt and society under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, the public reaction was also given the opportunity to exercise influence on the report of robbers. In addition, in the current year, the public reaction receives NOK 250 000 in support from the Directorate for Nature Management for the operation of its Internet pages. For the Ministry of the Environment, it will be essential to manage the basic support of the environmental protection organisations meeting the criteria for such support. In addition, the Ministry of the Environment emphasises the ability to provide project support on the basis of concrete project applications to organisations that do not have environmental protection as their primary purpose or for other reasons do not meet the criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e1998	Now I really don't think that the People's Action on new predatory policies is concerned about whether the money comes from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget or from the Ministry of the Environment's budget, so maybe it was the Minister of Agriculture who should have been here today and told us why he hasn't given money to this association either. So here we are talking about nation-wide organisations that are going on the environment, and we are saying environmental protection. It is worth pointing out that the People's reaction to new predatory policies would possibly have been the fourth largest of the organisations that had received support from this budget, only turned off by the Federation of Nature Conservation, the Association of Norway's Hunters and Fishers and DNT. I think it's a little suspicious, especially when I compare it with the Association of Our Crustaceans, which is a very similar organization, and which is working on the very same theme, namely only predators – a smaller organisation, a smaller nationwide organisation, but which is supported by the Ministry of the Environment's budget. Can the Council of State explain to me why the one association that takes one position receives support, while the association that takes another position does not receive support?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e2010	That was to the extent that I tried to explain myself in my previous answer, because in the Ministry of the Environment we relate to more than 60 different organisations. What we're trying to do is to be consistent with the fact that those who get basic support are nation-wide democratic organisations that have environmental protection as their primary purpose. In addition, many organisations are supported by projects or other special events or actions. Thus, the public reaction to new predatory policies has been supported in, among other things. 2006. It is clear that this is a continuous assessment as we do. Organisations also change, so that it is also organisations that received support in the past that do not receive it because they have changed their profile, and organisations that have received support, which may be involved in the following year. This is such an assessment, but we're trying to say that it has to be environmental protection that's the main purpose, and not just that a driver of environmental issues. Another example of a similar organisation is, for example: The rainforest fund, which also does not receive basic support, on the basis of the exact same type of justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e2022	As far as I know, the Rain Forest Fund is also an umbrella organisation, and there has certainly been a debate on which umbrella organisations are going to receive support or not. It's not just any organization we're talking about. It's a big organization, much larger than many of those mentioned under the hood. 1400, heading 70. But I am glad that the Minister for the Environment points out that they have received support for their information work this year, and I assume that this support will also be given next year. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I would like to mention – and this is stated in a Oslo District Court ruling today – that the Berne Convention points out that anti-conflict measures, pest reduction and stock management are actually useful in protecting predatory populations in Norway. So the boundary between environmental protection and not environmental protection is pretty thin, I feel. Last year it was said from Stortinget's pulpit by the position in Stortinget and also by the State Council itself that a clean-up was now to be carried out in how to finance all these organizations. There are several questions about this [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e2031	I want to comment on three things. One is that the draft budget that we have now presented is precisely what the representative is asking for, an increase in anti-conflict measures. I think we all know and have experience to increase what work produces good results. I will also confirm that the Association of Our Carnivores received project support, as mentioned here, in 2006. There's no reason to think they won't get it in 2007. So I want to say at the end that it's a pretty complicated job to have very solid criteria for different categories of organisations, but we're working on it, and we think we're going to be able to clean up even better until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-08.ana.ud1671e2040	Thus, today's map has been processed.
