ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e31	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth is unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e38	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Erna Solberg, Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to make a private proposal on the position of the Norwegian authorities on proposals for boycott by Israel. The proposers would like to seek a prompt treatment in accordance with Section 28(c) of the Storting Rules of Procedure. Second, the proposers accept that the matter is sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e45	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. In the light of the request made by the proposer for a reading under Section 28(c), a meeting of the Presidency will take place as soon as possible, so that the proposal will be referred to the minutes at the end of today's meeting to determine the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e53	The ordinary Questionnaire is a body where it is possible for large-scale representatives to enter into dialogue with a State Council on matters on which each representative is involved. We have introduced a reform of the Question Time Institute, which means that we only have regular Question Time twice a month now. When you look at the list of changes in the questionnaire today and see the number of defaults from government councils to the ordinary questionnaire, I have to be allowed to say that it shows a little lack of respect for the country's national parliament. I have therefore decided today to send a letter to the Presidency and ask them to take up this relationship with the Prime Minister's office, because it is not possible to organise a government's work so that the majority of the questions in the ordinary Question Time fall or are answered by government councils other than that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e58	The President will state that when there is a letter with such content as Erna Solberg referred to, it will of course be discussed in the Presidency. Based on the discussions and conclusions, the Stortinget may later be informed of its outcome. The same will, of course, possibly be the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e82	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. For information, the President will mention that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is present to attend the oral Question Time and that he is to answer the first question-time question in the ordinary Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e91	Recently, there has been a lot of noise around the issue of boycott by Israel, not least created by the government party SV. But other related government parties have also contributed to this noise: Senterungdom, local elected representatives of the Workers' Party, the AUF leader, who also has his daily work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and several of the workers' party’s and SV’s staging representatives. Yesterday the Prime Minister said that the opposition proposal is completely unnecessary, that this is only a mark from the opposition, an overplay, that there is no doubt about Norway's position, and that the Norwegian Government is against this. It is reassuring, but SV has at the same time announced that they want to work further into the Storting, and there are also workers' party representatives in this room who have notified the same thing. My question to the Prime Minister will then be as follows: Does the Prime Minister have a safe majority behind him in this matter? So far, he has it if he leans on the opposition. The entire Prime Minister's election campaign was driven from the point of view that it would be so excellent for the nation now to have a majority government, which would not have to deal with the opposition on the Stortinget, which would clarify its policy in advance. It is that a government must have a majority behind it. Does the Prime Minister look forward to the support of the opposition in this matter, or does the Prime Minister guarantee that his own parliamentary basis is behind the Government's view of the boycott of Israel, and that it is entirely unthinkable that the Government will allow itself to be pressured internally to change its view on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e100	Since it is my first meeting with Stortinget after New Year's, I would like to take the opportunity to say good new year to the opposition and the representative Jensen. Then I will answer the question by saying that there has never been any uncertainty that this government is against consumer boycott of Israel. It was clarified in the first interview with Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, and it has been repeated several times. For security reasons, it is also repeated in writing in letters including: to the Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am absolutely sure that the parties to the Middle East conflict, that the international community, that everyone who follows closely, has no doubt as to what the Norwegian government thinks on this issue. The only ones that in case have to be in doubt are the opposition parties that are now trying to keep their lives on a matter that is really completely settled. We have a long tradition in this country because, when you have multi-party governments, parties have positions that are not necessarily government policy. The right was a member of the EU and had a large number of decisions about it, but they were placed in a government that was not a member of Norwegian membership of the EU. The left was opposed to drilling in the Barents Sea and made decisions about it while they were in government, but put in a government that opened the way for drilling in the Barents Sea. This is a very normal problem, that parties have positions that have not been implemented in the political platform of government. Here the opposition batches try to create an uncertainty that is not the basis for this. Therefore, the opposition parties’ proposal is also completely unnecessary, and it is a proposal that serves only to contribute to political games, to create uncertainty where there is no basis for uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e109	I see that the Foreign Minister is also present, but I suppose it is perhaps more to be a hand to hold for the Prime Minister than to be available for questions. Then I also ask the next question to the Prime Minister. I can read from Dagbladet.no today that there have been some internal reactions in the government parties to the wording of the letters from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it says that ‘The letters of Størers will be reproduced internally’. What kind of aftergame are you talking about here? It could have been of considerable interest to the opposition to know, simply because we have had several days with considerable uncertainty about an important issue in Norwegian foreign policy. And with all due respect, I think it is necessary that the government not only trivialises this issue, when one knows that there is considerable unrest in the government parties, and that there are several representatives in this Chamber who, by voting, will probably vote against the Government's line on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e120	There is no reason why there should be any uncertainty about the position of the Norwegian Government on the issue of boycott by Israel. Even in the first interview with Kristin Halvorsen, she made it clear that it was not the government’s policy. The government has never had as a policy to go for the boycott of Israel, it has never been a matter of promoting the proposal, and it has been rejected all along that it is the government's policy. On the other hand, SV is a supporter of it, and what I tried to convey in my first answer was that it is nothing new that parties have special points for which they have not been impressed in a majority government. That was the case with the previous government, and that of course also applies to this government. The decisive thing is what is the government's view, and the government's view is brightly clear. There will be no aftermath after the letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Norwegian position and the Norwegian position state that we are concerned with respecting internationally recognised borders and safe borders. It's been, and it's, the Norwegian view, and it's solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e127	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e130	In the newspaper today, which is a friendly newspaper, I assume the Prime Minister thinks, it says of this government: ‘The potential for improvement is enormous’. That must be an encouragement to the Prime Minister. It does not refer to the content of this matter, but it refers to the Government's way of working, and not least the Government's way of communicating with the outside world. It is not daily food that a Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs has to write letters to foreign ministers to apologize for what the Deputy Head of Government has said publicly in Norway. Hopefully the Prime Minister doesn't think there's any reason to minimize this. It affects a small country like Norway at the most sensitive point; we cannot afford to pretend that the outside world is wondering what the Norwegian government is actually doing and standing for. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that he will take advantage of the potential for improvement before they communicate with the outside world? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e137	The number is over!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e141	I do not intend to minimize the issue of Norway’s position and attitudes in the Middle East conflict – on the contrary, it is a very serious and important matter. That is why we were concerned about removing any doubts that might have arisen. That was also the reason why the Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote a letter, which was the full agreement in the Government that one should do to remove any doubt that might have arisen. Then it is my absolute opinion that there is now no basis for continuing to raise doubts after the Government – the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I – have expressed both verbally and in writing what the Government's view is, and that is that we are still opposed to consumer boycott. What I've said, on the other hand, is that when the opposition continues to try to create uncertainty, it creates the impression that there is some confusion, and it promotes a proposal that is completely unnecessary, in Stortinget. I stand by that, because the government believes that you are now playing games on a basis that there is no reason whatsoever to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e148	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e151	Since the change of government in October, we have witnessed several cases of internal conflict and double communication by the government parties on several foreign policy issues. This applies, inter alia, to: use of veto against the Services Directive, as regards the Norwegian contributions to the international operation in Afghanistan and, last but not least, against the boycott of one of the best-developed democracies in the Middle East. This led to the Christian People's Party's big group choosing to send a letter to the Prime Minister about this, and it was absolutely right and necessary that the Minister of Finance deplored his boycott play. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also shown a commendable clarity in order to correct the impression that has been created. My question, also in the extension of the Prime Minister's reply to the representative Inge Wohnning, is: What will the Prime Minister do? What action has he taken, and what action will he take to prevent the Government from acting in this imprudent way in the future, in order to send letters to important partners, and to ensure that prominent members of the Government have to complain publicly in the manner that has taken place in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e158	Here it's a mix of different ratios. It is not new that SV, for example is a consumer boycotter and opposes the sending of F-16 aircraft to Afghanistan. But this has not led to uncertainty about what is the government's policy, because the government's policy has been clear with regard to Afghanistan, and it has been clear with regard to the view of consumer boycott. Then there was a discussion after an interview with Kristin Halvorsen. In that interview she explained that the government was opposed to consumer boycott, and in order to remove any doubts that might have arisen after that interview, we chose to send a letter of complaint to the Minister of Finance. So there is no longer any basis for doubt, and that is the matter in my eyes out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e163	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e166	I would like to begin by returning the wish in a good new year also to the Prime Minister and his government. They need it! Now the situation is that the new year hasn't started so well for the government, and the old one didn't end so well either. An unclear situation has also arisen in an important question. The Prime Minister summed up in a New Year's interview all last year's debates, far on the way created by his own government, calling them media-created non-debates and noise debates, and that he rises above all these debates. My question to the Prime Minister is simple: Does the Prime Minister think that the important debate that began with the unexplained situation of his Deputy Minister of State made about boycott of Israel, and which, in my opinion, has contributed to this clarification the Prime Minister is right now saying, was also a noise debate or a non-debate? Or was it necessary to get the clarification he is now expressing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e175	Before the Prime Minister receives a reply, the President will draw attention to the fact that we have no title called ‘Minister of State’. I believe the representative Lars Sponheim believes the Minister of Finance, which is no. 2 of the Government. However, the title ‘Minister of State’ should not be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e178	I think there were many interesting debates last fall. I participated in several of them, and I look forward to many interesting debates in the new year. I believe, of course, that it is important that we have debates on the Norwegian attitude to the Middle East conflict, but at the same time I believe that it is important that those debates take place on the most real basis possible, and that we find out what there is real disagreement about, and that is a genuine consensus. Therefore, it was also important to remove what might be in doubt about the Norwegian attitude to boikot. It has been removed, and the opposition that is now involved is trying to keep alive in a debate that has actually ended, namely whether Norway should go to the consumer boycott. There is no one who has put forward proposals, and that is why there is no basis for debate on this issue any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e183	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e186	I would also like to be allowed to say congratulations on the new year. I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on something else, namely his contributions to the NHO Annual Conference with views for North Norway on the future oil and gas extraction. It was an article that made great enthusiasm. It created great optimism and showed that the Prime Minister is probably sharing our views on how the development of oil and gas in the Barents Sea and North Norway can also help to create new optimism and a completely different type of business and development in the North. At the same time, we've had some good news from the actual test drilling. In the Goliath field, the oil company Eni has found propelling oil deposits. It has to be seen as positive, because we need to add more oil and gas to the production, not least because production has now gradually begun to fall. That's why it was all the more disappointing for all those who had been excited by the Prime Minister that the next day they experienced a debate on whether to for the first time – and I say, for the first time – say no to the development of a driving find. We've never done that before in Norway. Once granted exploration permits, it has been implicitly part of the political stability of Norway. It has been a pretense for Norwegian oil companies and for our business that even though we are a more expensive country, we have actually been credible in that if you find something when you have invested, you can run. Then my question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with oil director Gunnar Berge, who believes that it is not possible to bring petroleum-free zones after an area has been allocated to oil companies, and that we need to remove that uncertainty as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e195	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we continue to provide oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. It says explicitly that we should carry out the 19th concession round as foreseen. This means that new areas will be allocated for exploration activities before Easter. The second thing is that we are going to present a management plan, and on the basis of that management plan, we are going to decide where there is going to be petroleum activity and where there is not going to be any activity. The work on the management plan was started by the previous government, and we are continuing that work, based on the same premises. We have the same approach to the fact that there are areas in the Barents Sea that are so vulnerable that it's right not to have any business. Where this is, we'll get back to when the management plan is available and we'll present it to the Stortinget. In the case of the Goliath field, the rightholders of the Goliath field have not only received a permit of convenience, as the representative Solberg says, but they have obtained an exploration and extraction permit under the Petroleum Act. The exploration and extraction permit is, of course, by law. That's a right they've been given. However, both the Minister of Energy, the Minister of the Environment and I have emphasised that it is only when we receive an application for a plan of development and operation, a PUD, that the Government is to decide on the development project. On the basis of a comprehensive management plan, we will then impose the requirements and provide the leadership that we consider necessary for such a development plan. There has been a long tradition of doing so in Norway. We'll continue to do that from the Government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e205	I think the answer is interesting, but it's hard to read what the Prime Minister is actually saying. I believe that the permission given to Eni actually means that we have to give them permission to build. What environmental requirements are being imposed is another matter. Requirements are relevant for the purposes of the development consent itself. But precisely because they have a permit that makes them expect for good reason that there should be no stoppage for political reasons, it should be a point for the Prime Minister to be able to say clearly that it will be a yes to development, but that environmental requirements will be discussed. The reason why I'm concerned that this is important is that when you're going to award 19th-round exploration concessions, it's important not to have any uncertainty about how the outcome is for Goliath, because it'll have something to say about how fast the oil business, which 19th-round would give North Norway, actually gets going. If there is still to be uncertainty about government policy in this area, there will be a problem. Can the government clarify its position quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e212	I believe that it has already been clarified what should and should be clarified now. One is that they have been granted an extraction permit. They have been granted an exploration and extraction permit. They've been light, and then they've found oil. Then they still have an extraction permit. It's at work. It's a legal right they have. At the same time, they must apply for a specific development project if they make an investment decision and want to move forward. Of course, that application must be dealt with when it comes. It is crazy administrative order if we should decide on an application before it has arrived. Then there would be no point in looking. We are awaiting a plan for deployment and operation and an application from the rightholders, when it has to come. Then we will set out the requirements that we believe are necessary for such a development plan. That's how it's been done. I have been involved in doing so in previous governments, and so will this application be handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e219	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e222	Political signals mean something. It is obvious when Eni says that they will assess the search stop in Norway as long as they do not know what they have to do with the framework conditions. The Progress Party believes that strict environmental requirements should be imposed on oil and exploration activities, but we must not talk about introducing protection zones. It is better to say what environmental requirements the oil companies will meet, and then they will extract. The Prime Minister refers to the granting of 19th round in the first quarter, but the framework conditions for the oil industry in the north are not to be adopted until the second quarter. As a result, search sites such as Stortinget are at risk of being allocated if they have an influence on the framework conditions, which can actually change and close. The Minister for the Environment has said that she does not exclude oil-free zones in the north. Many speculate that the management plan will involve entering the Goliath field under petroleum-free zones. Can the Prime Minister assure us that the Goliath field will not be protected?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e233	We propose to provide the management plan and the allocation of blocks in the 19th concession round at the same time. It's coming before Easter. In the management plan, we will balance different interests – shipping interests, fishing interests, petroleum interests and environmental and natural interests – in line with what the previous government provided. That is the purpose of the management plan. I think it is a good and important document. So that same day, we're going to assign the blocks in 19 rounds. You know well about the frame conditions on the Norwegian base. They're described in the Soria Moria platform. Part of the framework conditions are therefore included in the management plan, which was notified by the former government, with broad support here in Stortinget. In the case of Goliath, the situation remains that they have been granted a exploration and extraction permit. Of course it's at work. But we can only decide on the development project itself when we get a plan for development and operation. It's always like this. It is never the case that a government takes a decision on a plan for development and operation before the application has been received.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e242	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e245	The oil and energy minister claimed before the weekend that no extension of Goliath would be approved. Oil Director Gunnar Berge today says to today's industry that the Petroleum Act makes it difficult to refuse the oil company Eni to expand the Goliath field. Such prior approval by the oil director seems strange to me, since the matter is to be dealt with in the Storting and a comprehensive management plan is to be presented before Easter, as confirmed by the Prime Minister in his previous reply. My question will then be: Does the Prime Minister think that the oil director's interpretation of the petroleum law at that time results in the correctness of the permits granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e252	I am pleased to note that there is a slightly different approach from the different opposition parties to the question of Goliath. The answer is still the same, however, and it is that they have been granted a exploration and extraction permit. It's a legal right that the companies have and that stands by. At the same time, such an extractive consent does not automatically grant approval for a specific development project – which shall be subject to requirements, conditions and conditions. The requirements, conditions and conditions can only be met once we see the application and have reviewed it and established environmental requirements on the basis of a management plan. Therefore, it is still the case that we take a final position on a development plan once we have received an application. It's completely independent of what the oil director had to think or not. Gunnar Berge is a nice man, but it's the government that rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e257	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e260	The Minister for the Environment has created uncertainty as to whether the Goliath field will be granted oil development permits. That uncertainty has been cleared up by the Prime Minister today. This means that the Minister for the Environment and the SV are out of date. What remains is to see what conditions are set for such expansion. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Stortinge must deal with the management plan to reconcile fishing interests, environmental interests and petroleum interests in the northern regions. It says it's The Storing to determine where it will be opened for activity and where there will be no activity. Is there a real invitation to the Storting to be able to influence this management plan? Can the Prime Minister confirm that there is an opening so that views of the parties in the Stortinget could lead to adjustments to the management plan, as part of the process to take place in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e269	I'm a little bit unsure of what the left really is concerned about. To those who are now concerned that there is uncertainty about Goliath, I would say that in all the years I have been involved in these debates, the years I was the Minister of Energy, and when I was Prime Minister last time, the Left has been opposed to any activity throughout the Barents Sea, including search concessions. What's absolutely certain is that we wouldn't have found oil in the Goliath field if we didn't have the light. The left was against looking, but perhaps to expand what they were against finding. The management plan shall be dealt with in Stortinget, and we will be listening to the recordings and assessments from the parties involved, from all parties. demanding and important balances of different interests shall be made so that we have the best possible regime to safeguard commercial interests, but also to safeguard environmental and natural interests, which are important and important in the Barents Sea;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e277	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e280	In a New Year's Interview with NTB, the Prime Minister characterised the debate on porridge in school as incalculable noise. The same was true of the issue of who is most suitable for raising young children, parents or kindergartens. All the debates he saw as immaterial, misunderstandings and hesitations. It was only the tax debate between the LO and the Workers' Party that the Prime Minister found high enough to characterize as a real and honest debate. When Linda Austnes from Godøy saw the statement in the VG that the minister of knowledge would stop the prayer at school, she was so provoked that she spontaneously launched a signing campaign at her local store. The campaign has received a lot of attention, and has per year. today, 57 000 signatures have been collected. It was a pity the Prime Minister did not find time to meet Linda Austnes when she was here before Christmas to deliver these signatures. I did it, and she could tell that there's a lot of anxiety in the country about these questions. Such an involvement, as shown by Linda Austnes, cannot be characterised as either inexcusable or reticent. Nor can the debates on which the Prime Minister has expressed himself be explained as misunderstandings. They have simply come as a result of statements by the Government's own members, and not as the evil will of the media or individuals. In these days, the government will spend a few days traveling around Norway, and the goal, according to the Prime Minister, is to get recordings from ordinary people. I will not exclude that the members of the government will meet much as they will perceive, based on such thinking, as immaterial, misunderstandings or hesitation. But the Prime Minister has invited dialogue and cooperation with the opposition, and then it must be expected that there will be resistance, debate and disagreement. What the Prime Minister sees as immaterial is too many people in this country very important. The government has said that it should change the content and form of the policy. Is it the case that the new form of policy is to dismiss unpleasant debates as unnecessary, immaterial and reticent?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e289	The answer to the question is no. On the contrary, I warmly welcome debates, and we shall not dismiss important debates in which we disagree or where there are difficult issues to debate. I am pleased with the question from the representative Højbräten, because I am given the opportunity to state that of course I do not believe that the only interesting debate last autumn was the debate on the tax regime. There were many other interesting debates last fall, and we both participated in several of them. On the other hand, what I was concerned about, and I would like to repeat, is that I believe that two concrete debates, namely the debates on child rearing and table prayers, are based on misunderstandings. I'm not going to go into who's responsible for the misunderstandings, but just notice that in the case of prayer, Øystein Djupedal believes exactly the same thing as Kristin Klemet. I mean exactly what former Prime Minister Bondevik meant as Prime Minister, so there is no change. When there is no change and no disagreement in how the legislation on prayer is to be practised in school, it is an unnecessary debate that we are discussing something we agree on. I mean, I'm going to repeat that, and I'm going to say that. Similarly with regard to child rearing, I know that Øystein Djupedal does not believe that kindergartens are better suited to take the primary responsibility for child education, and therefore I believe that a debate based on that premise is an unnecessary debate. It's enough of other things to discuss where we're quite disagreeing, and where it's actually that it plays a role who decides. In the case of pruning, it does not matter whether the Prime Minister is called Stoltenberg or Bondevik, because it is the same legislation as it applies. For example: biotechnology law, free school law or property tax, there is disagreement – there are important debates. Let's take the debates where there's real disagreement, and not where there's a discord that's really not based on real contradictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e298	I feel reason to remember that it is the government that raised the question of the value base in school. It shall review the value base of the school, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Minister of Knowledge has said that he wants a more inclusive school value base. It is not a continuation of Bondevik's policy. If Prime Minister Stoltenberg has understood it this way, it can be clarified here and now. But what's underlying my question is that we have a government and a prime minister who defines attack, playout, debates and opposition from the opposition as unnecessary, as hesitated and built on misunderstandings – every time they face resistance. And if this is the new form of politics, then I really have to ask: what is it that makes it the government that can define which debates are unnecessary in a democracy? Is it true that 57 000 people who have signed the contract from Linda Austnes have totally misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e305	I must obviously repeat the following: I believe there were many necessary and important debates last autumn. For example, there was an important debate last fall in which the Christian People's Party believed that the municipalities would have 5 billion dollars less than the Workers' Party was for. It is an important debate. The Christian People's Party believed that we should have great tax relief on the wealth tax of the richest – the Workers' Party was against what the Christian People's Party was for it. It was an important debate. The debate on the Law on Secondary Education is an important debate. The debate on biotechnology is an important debate. There were many, many other important debates last fall, and also going on now. Of course, many important questions are raised in the appeal, but I have pointed out that with regard to the two specifics that I believe are based on misunderstandings, namely the question of prayer and the question of the role of kindergartens in the assignment, I do not think there is any real disagreement. There are very many other issues where there is a need for debate, where there is real disagreement – and then let us discuss them. Obviously, we can also have a discussion about the value base in school, but there is a different debate than the question of prayer, because there is the law, and the practice of it, exactly the same with the new government as with the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e312	The President allows three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen, then Lars Sponheim and Bjørg Tørresdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e315	I also think it is quite special that the Prime Minister defines some of the debates that were very central for weeks before Christmas, as misunderstandings. But what I may think is even more special, is that on a number of occasions the Prime Minister has had to move out either to defend state councils, to expound state councils, or to punish state councils. Is there a comfortable situation for the Prime Minister that he must spend more of his time on it than to lead the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e320	I can reassure the representative Jensen that I am taking all my time to lead the country. And when I don't, I relax and do completely different things. So that's how I have a very comfortable situation. But leading the country means both making suggestions, leading the government's work and clarifying things if there's been a lack of clarity. And to the extent that it was unclear about e.g. Norwegian attitude to boycott of Israel, I feel that it is very prepared now. There is no need for further clarification there, and I intend to spend my time on other things. For the sake of order, I would also like to stress that I did not believe that all the debates last autumn were unnecessary. These are two things I think are based on misunderstandings. When this government believes exactly the same on the table prayer as the previous one, I have some problems seeing that there is a basis for a long and comprehensive debate on it. In the case of child rearing, Øystein Djupedal and I agree that kindergartens are good, but that parents have the primary responsibility for child rearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e329	The President will draw attention to the fact that Erna Solberg believes she has drawn herself. It's not registered up here, but the president doesn't ignore the fact that there's a very small chance that it's made a mistake, and so Erna Solberg will also ask a follow-up question before Bjørg Tørersdal, who we don't want to punish when she's advertised. Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e334	I'm afraid the Prime Minister didn't lead the country, but I guess he relaxed a lot when he gave this New Year's interview that was referred to. He has now contributed to modernising this significantly today by saying that the general nature of the significant democratic activity in the debates in the autumn has been the subject of two substantive debates. And of course, the Prime Minister must be allowed to have an opinion on that. However, I think it is quite striking how the Prime Minister, and also others in his government, have made it a point to say how important it is that the colorful community in seminars and government must be allowed to live with differing views, while he puts a hard hand over the debate to be in a democracy, and so to speak, cancels some of the main instruments of democracy. It has been moderated in this debate, but nevertheless I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the Prime Minister, in the form of question: can he not make it a New Year's resolution rather to raise what he has said so well sometimes in the Storting, namely to listen, to be inclusive, to accept that there will be new positions in the Storing? I know that a government has not thought all things into it. Sometimes good things appear in the debate after a government has finished. Build it, Prime Minister, and make it a New Year's resolution. Isn't that smart?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e341	The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e347	Nice, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e352	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e355	Thank you for giving me the floor. I have a lot of understanding that it can be frustrating when media debates run about things that you might not have thought would give it the potential that it has. But I want to say that a lot of the election campaign last year turned around, among other things. from then opposition leader Jens Stoltenberg to try to reject debates that were also considered critical at the time. the challenges with the foreign policy base of the red-green option in Norwegian policy. We have well been proved in retrospect that it was an area that should have been discussed more deeply and more closely, although I have registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that SV's activities in the foreign policy debate are refreshing. I'm not sure if last week has been as refreshing. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister now see that there had been a basis for the Government to discuss a number of matters more thoroughly before they went out? Now the Prime Minister has just parked the Minister of Environment's play last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e364	I think debates are refreshing and I would like to welcome many debates. I think we're all going to try to participate in them, and it's good that we agree on that. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it is very much discussed in the Soria Moria Declaration. It's actually one of the things we spent a lot of time on, and where it's comprehensive, precise and well-considered sentences. That is also the reason why, when uncertainty arises or some claim that there is uncertainty about our positions on Afghanistan, we can refer to the Soria Moria Declaration, which makes it quite clear that we must step up the Norwegian presence in Afghanistan. It's also clear that there's no coverage in the Soria Moria statement to go in for some boycott of Israel. Then I would also like to remind you that a party believes something that they haven't got through to in government, that's how it should be, as it should be, in a multi-party government. The right was too much lower alcohol charges and profiled it even though they were in a government that did not lower the alcohol charges. The right was for the EU, even though they were in a government that was not going to apply. The left was against any activity in the Barents Sea, but opened to it while they were in government. So this is going to be something we have to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e375	One of the major debates in the autumn concerned the question of fresh oils. In the election campaign, the government parties said that they wanted to return to the old private school law, which facilitates life-vision schools and schools with alternative pedagogy. In the fall, Prime Minister Stoltenberg in Stortinget repeated that the Soria Moria Declaration stated that we should have a private school law that facilitates schools with alternative pedagogy or religious bases. Then we experienced that the Minister of Knowledge and the Government had stopped all the schools that had been approved but had not started. The government also stopped Christian and other life-vision schools, Steiner Schools and other alternative pedagogical schools. Can the Prime Minister understand the turmoil it has created, and can the Prime Minister remove doubt and guarantee that approved life-sight schools and alternative pedagogical schools are allowed to start up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e384	We're going to allow life-vision schools and schools based on alternative pedagogics to get started. What we've made clear at the same time is that we needed a temporary stop because we had to make a new law. 22,000 new student places were authorised, most of them related to commercial schools — schools not based on alternative life views or teaching options. Therefore, we had to have this stop until a new law was passed. On the basis of the new law, authorisations will be granted for the operation of private schools based on alternative life and pedagogy. It has been clear all along, but I would like to remove all the uncertainty about it, insofar as there are some.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e389	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e392	We have put behind us a year that has been some of the best, perhaps the best Norwegian business ever had. We have record profits, we have amazing results for the nation of Norway, and it is that having profitable businesses is a prerequisite for getting a large and important community. We have to create to share, as the prime minister so often said once in a while. The fact that we now have a business life in Norway that is so modern, which captures the opportunities of the global economy, is mainly a result of the fact that business has been able to change over the last few years. The Prime Minister knows a lot about, as former Minister of Industry, and also signed, that the assumptions underlying conversions, that Norwegian companies were investing much more out than non-residents were investing in Norway, that they were investing as much outside as they were investing in Norway, were a prerequisite. Unfortunately, jobs are sometimes lost in such a transition, but it is necessary to strengthen future-oriented jobs in Norway. Then his State Secretary, at the Prime Minister's office, and his Minister of Economic Affairs in various interviews at Christmas, arranges for businesses to be fined, a million-dollar fine. His State Secretary refers to Germany, where there is 1 million fines for each job that had to disappear. It's a shame that workplaces disappear, but it's necessary to get a forward-looking, modern business life. That's to say tax on conversion they're calling for. I'm pretty sure that had it been policy when the Prime Minister was Minister of Industry in his time, and when I signed it, through changing governments, we wouldn't have had the globally competitive and profitable business that we have in Norway today. Does that mean that the Prime Minister here in the Grand Duchy today can announce that there will be policies from this government to tax the kind of necessary conversions, these million fines that are announced here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e403	First, a little general consideration. When representatives from the former government parties talk about the Norwegian economy in 2005, they always say that it is the best year ever and unusually good. There is a lot of good in the Norwegian economy in 2005, but at the same time it is a year when unemployment became very high. So maybe the most important measure of whether things are going well or bad in the Norwegian economy – because there are many of them, but one of them is unemployment – went in the wrong direction. Unemployment got stuck at a very high level. I think that's an addition that the representatives of the former government parties should notice a little more often, namely that we had a very high level of unemployment in an economic boom, that we saw that there was a risk of permanent high levels of unemployment in Norway. In this case, we have no plans to introduce any taxes on conversion. But we have a discussion about the new acquisition law. We're going to send it to the hearing when we're done with it, and then we're going to decide how it's to be designed. But the new acquisition law is, if I am allowed to remember it, a continuation of the old concession laws, which were the image of the left at the beginning of the last century, and which the Left boasted in all respects beyond the 1990s, and which was replaced by the acquisition law at the beginning of the 1990s, as a result of the EEA Act. The strange thing is that the Left, who has been a member of the concession laws and in a way was the father and mother of the concession laws, now denies that whole idea and thinks it's old-fashioned. Well, it's good, old-fashioned left-wing policy to be a follower of that kind of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e412	I am very pleased with the little effort the Prime Minister has made to know Left history. I would like to contribute in the future to deepening knowledge in that area. One important historical knowledge is that the Left has shown the ability to convert, including by politics. We have been given the floor to be the business manager of necessities. Fortunately, that is right, for reactionism we do not need, nor in Norwegian industrial policy, in relation to the global economy. I am glad that the Prime Minister does not confirm that there will be that kind of tax on conversions. I would like to remind the Prime Minister of an interview he has given. I very much agree with what he said in that interview, and I would like to say that it was not my intention to take credit for the results in 2005. On the contrary, I divided it with changing governments and business ministers over time – I fear the future in the short term. He says in an interview that the worst enemy of the welfare state is those who are against renewal. That's absolutely right. He also boasts of the important changes in Posten and NSB, which are now going with amazing profits, where we broke with the opposite a few years ago. Conversion is necessary, and I just want to remind you that when you have to think about these approaches to private business, you can't imagine a tax on the conversion of that kind of transformation in the public sector. They must be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e419	I am a hot and strong supporter of the renewal of the public sector. It is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that we must continue to work hard in the field of public sector renewal, because all of us who are followers of a strong public sector and strong public services must be the first to renew them, so that we are sure that they are working well and that we spend the tax money in the best possible way. Those who are in favour of privatisation are somewhat easier, because they believe that an alternative to strong public Community solutions is privatisation. I believe that one of the main instruments for privatisation is the renewal of the public sector, so that it is well-run for the sake of the community and contributes to fair distribution. That's why this government is going to continue the renewal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e425	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e428	I fully agree with the representative Sponheim that jobs are coming and going. In the middle of the election campaign, some jobs were about to go and received considerable attention, not least from the Prime Minister himself. He was on a torch. He spent a lot of time talking about the lack of tools in the toolbox, and you could get a very clear impression that both the Prime Minister and the two parties with which the Labour Party is now ruling had the plan ready for how to save the Union. What is the Government's plan, both in relation to the Union and in relation to other similar issues that will certainly have to come to Norwegian industry in the years to come, simply because there is a need for natural renewal and conversion in Norwegian industry, in Norwegian industry, to meet the tough international competition to which Norwegian companies are also exposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e433	First of all, as far as Union is concerned, we have followed up exactly what we said, among other things. what I said in the speech I had in Skien during the torch. It was that we should go in with the tools that were available, among other things. through Innovation Norway, through power contracts and through dialogue with the company. We've followed that up. But there was not a majority in the company meeting for any further operations. We have never guaranteed anything – I was very careful about that during the election campaign. It was even in newspapers after that meeting pointed out that I didn't guarantee anything, because I know from experience is a wise approach. As far as other enterprises are concerned more generally, it is the case that we are going to have an active industrial policy. First of all, it means keeping track of the economy, interest rates and exchange rates, as opposed to the Progress Party, which will build up Norwegian industry through irresponsible use of oil money. Secondly, it means more bet on things that are important for Norwegian companies, such as Norway. carriage. That is why we have increased investment in transport by about DKK 0.5 billion compared to last year's budget. And we also have other important tools to strengthen Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e440	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e443	The discussion on the acquisition law is, in my opinion, a purely commercial policy paper tiger with no significance for Norwegian jobs. But what's new is the Minister of Industry's threat to millions of fines to put an end to what he thinks are profitable jobs, which came now at Christmas. And then I'll quote the Minister of Industry from an interview with him in the VG on December 29, where he says: ‘There is no phase for the concept of profitability. This must be assessed on a case-by-case basis and in the discussion prior to a closure.» Does not the Prime Minister see that this becomes completely arbitrary, and that it will be easy for a company to run down a department or a subsidiary in such a situation and produce them as unprofitable, and that it will also be a discussion of future profitability? Does the Prime Minister think that such arbitrary legislation would make it more attractive for companies to be located in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e453	I believe that there is no clear fasititude about what is the correct concept of profitability. This is partly due to the fact that there may be different assessments of private economic profitability. In the discussion around the Union, we have just had it, and not least the former Minister of Industry, Mr. Børge Burnde, was very concerned that there was a problem that while there were some private investors who thought it was profitable to move on, the private owners refused to sell to these investors. So that idea can't be completely foreign to the Right either, when the Right Minister of Industry just forged the problem of profitability considerations, and so you weren't allowed to make a profitable purchase from those who wanted to buy the Union. That's point one. The point 2 is that there is a significant difference between private economic profitability and socio-economic profitability. Decommissioning a business and leaving people unemployed can be economically viable, but it can have socio-economic costs. It is part of the policy's task to try to correct the socio-economic costs that the type of private behaviour entails, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e460	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e463	The Prime Minister said in his first reply in this round that the labour market was going in the wrong direction in 2005. I wondered for a moment whether that was the time when the Bondevik government took over, the Prime Minister referred to, because then it went awry. However, after the figures with which we are sitting, there was a marked decrease in unemployment in 2005, and employment has never been higher than in 2005. That's whether you look at the SSB's number or the Aetat's number. So with that remark the Prime Minister had, I have a question: Is the Prime Minister and the Government sitting with other figures for employment development in 2005 than what the rest of us are doing, since he could say that the labour market has gone wrong in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e468	My main point was that unemployment was getting stuck at a very high level in an economic upswing. This was due, inter alia, to: that the government conducted a very passive labour market policy, while it is absolutely necessary to get people to work when the economy rises, and to avoid people being permanently excluded from the labour market. As regards labour market developments, I should like to clarify the following: registered unemployment fell in 2005, while AKU figures showed a different trend. And what you now choose to count — either the number of the Labour Market Act or the number of the Central Statistical Office — is at least the same picture, namely that unemployment was high in an economic upturn. With that clarification, I'm in for everything I've said. However, there are many objectives for labour market development, and there is a slightly different picture in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e475	The majority then deals with the last main questions in the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e478	I will first be allowed to wish the Prime Minister a good new year. It is good to hear that the Prime Minister can relax once in a while between all fire extinguishment, and it is also reassuring to hear that the Prime Minister, the Government and the Workers' Party have a task, namely to focus on leading the country. But despite the fact that the Prime Minister and the Labour Party have rejected a number of debates that hesitated from the opposition, there is one debate that has begun to grow, in view of the fact that the Party Secretary in the Workers' Party, like the parliamentary leader and Vice-President Hill-Marta Solberg today in the Newspaper, together with Valla and LO again, of course, now has to ‘knee the FrP Code’. One might think it was a crossword or a Sudoku problem we were facing. But my question to the Prime Minister when it comes to focusing on leading the country is: Is there also a government and government strategy to crack the ‘FRP code’ embedded in leading the country? In that case, I would also like to challenge the Prime Minister whether he or she is going to use resources with Valla and LO to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e486	The Office is used only for the purposes of the duties of the Office and is to prepare and process the decisions of the Government. And that's the way it should still be, and if that's what the representative asked for, that's the answer. As far as discussion is concerned more generally, I believe that, in the light of the strong call for debate, we should welcome debates in which differences between parties are brought forward, between, for example, different parties. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party. There's plenty of reason for that. We can, for example: look at the effects of the proposals of the Progress Party to say no to country-wide tariff agreements, the total irresponsible use of oil money by the Progress Party, which will weaken our ability to finance pensions in the future, or the Progress Party's proposal to remove all state support to kindergartens and turn everything into cash support, which will make kindergartens significantly more expensive, the social inequality significantly more difficult and make it much more difficult to achieve integration, not least by minority children. There are only a few examples of good and important debates I look forward to taking place with the Progress Party, and which produce important political differences in Norway. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e493	I thank you for your answer. The Progress Party likes to know who we're going to go to war against, and then it's good to hear that the government should at least stay out of the war that LO and the Workers' Party have now committed. We look forward to that debate with the LO and the Workers' Party, especially in relation to what goes on freedom of choice, also for workers in negotiating their own salaries, etc. We also look forward to the debate on justice with regard to allocating funds to families with children so that freedom of choice between kindergarten and other forms of care for their children, as the Labour Party and the LO strongly oppose. We also look forward to a debate on workers in Norway being exempted from Youngstorget and LO and the over-management that is taking place there. We want more local negotiations and more workers are allowed to decide on their own needs. Let me end with a question: Does the Prime Minister also support – indirectly, he is also head of the Workers' Party – that LO is now going to spend millions of dollars cracking the «FrP Code»?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e502	First of all, in relation to the specific debate: nationwide tariff agreements are the very pillar of what provides workers with security of pay and work in Norway, and there is a great and ideological difference. We believe in the community of trade unions by ensuring employees' rights in terms of pay and safety at work. The party of progress is against what we are for it. There's a big and important difference. Barnhager: The Progress Party has thought a little different things up over the years, but at the last national meeting they went in to remove all state aid to kindergartens. That means that in kindergartens it's going to cost up to NOK 10,000, I think, at least it's multiple of what it costs today, and it means once again that we're going to experience that the children who need kindergartens the most, at least it gets, not least children with immigrant backgrounds, who should go to kindergarten, but who, after all, will not go to kindergarten to a greater extent. So as I say, there are debates I want to welcome. As for LO's commitment, I'm not up to date with what they're going to do and not do, but they're now going to decide for themselves. At least we shall have the debate with the Progress Party in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e511	The president has registered one follow-up question – Siv Jensen. The President will allow himself to draw attention to the fact that that kind of debate, outside this Chamber, will also be able to take part in the party president of the Progress Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e516	It might have been beneficial if the Prime Minister concentrated on clarifying the Government's policy rather than trying to misjudge the Advance Party. I agree with the Prime Minister that there is a good deal of principleal ideological debate on different directions of policy. But then it would be an affordable contribution to the debate that the Workers' Party made clear what the Workers' Party stood for, so the Advance Party could clarify what the Progress Party stood for, and then we could allow the voters, with the wisdom they have, to decide who they most agreed with. It is presumptuous for the political debate when the Labour Party is going to use all its strength, if you believe Martin Kolberg, to fight the Progress Party in 2006. Is this a vision shared by the Prime Minister? Is it the case that the entire Workers' Party, including with Party leader Stoltenberg at the head, will use its resources on this kind of fight, or will the Prime Minister perhaps give priority to ruling the country? Or is it such that in this case one ‘takes a pig’, that party leader Stoltenberg does not have to face the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e521	Party leaders Stoltenberg and Prime Minister Stoltenberg are going to do the same things, and it's bringing about the happy social-democratic message and leading the government's work. Then we also get differences in politics, and an important social democratic message is the idea of community, that community is a good framework and provides security for individuals. We must then be allowed to point out that the Progress Party is against the union of trade unions and nationwide collective agreements. A community is publicly funded kindergartens, and we must then be allowed to point out that the Progress Party has now repeated its old programme formula on zero state aid to kindergartens, which means a furrowing of a very important Community offer. That is what I intend to point out whether I am a party leader, prime minister or both at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e526	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e532	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Erna Solberg to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 2, from the representative of Vera Lysklött to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who has been away. Question 3, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 4, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 5, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 8, from Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 9, from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Development, will be postponed to the next Question Time by agreement between the questioner and the Council of State. Question 13, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 14 and 15 from the representatives Hans Olav Syversen and Petter Løvik respectively to the Minister of Justice must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 16 from Mr Dahl to the Minister for Justice will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has been removed. Question 17, from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Culture and the Church, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e568	This question, from the representative of Erna Solberg to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e571	‘The Minister of Foreign Affairs has said in Stortinget that the boycott of Israel is not the government’s policy. The Minister of Finance now encourages municipalities and counties, i.e. public Norway, to boycott Israel. The disagreement between the two state councils raises serious doubts about the Government's intentions as peacemakers in the Middle East, and this in the midst of a very critical political situation in the area. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that the Prime Minister's playout harms Norway's reputation in Israel as a neutral organizer, and what is the Government's policy now?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e583	This government is opposed to the boycott of Israel. Boikott of Israel is not part of Norwegian foreign policy. The question is not reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration or in the Government's Declaration of Accession. There is also a clear majority in the Grand Duchy who have clearly expressed the same position. We can live with the fact that there are different views on such a matter. It is not new that parties, organisations and persons support such an instrument. It's a right they must have in a democracy. But it is important that there is no doubt about what is government policy. It is important in relation to Norwegian opinion and to all those dealing with Norway in the international community. Opinions last week were suitable for creating such a doubt. For this reason, an overall government was committed to ensuring clarity of Norway’s position on this issue, and we were concerned that such clarity was rapidly established. The government's position is clear from the Prime Minister's, the Minister of Finance's and my own statements last week. This is also evident from my letter to Israel's Foreign Minister, Silvan Shalom. I also chose to send a copy of this letter to the US Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice. The United States plays a central role in the Middle East peace process and should have a correct picture of Norwegian positions. Given the interest in the question, I also chose to make the letters public. The feedback we received during the weekend shows that there is now no doubt about what is the Government's attitude towards the boycott of Israel. It's satisfying. The role of Norway in the Middle East is based on long-term, close and friendly relations with the parties to the conflict. Norway is a friend of Israel and a friend of the Palestinian people who is entitled to their own state. The two countries must be able to live within safe and internationally recognised borders. The government's emphasis is on conducting a dialogue with both parties. I got my visit to the Middle East last November confirmed at the highest level, from both sides, that Norway's commitment is still desired, and both parties emphasize the fact that they are respected and listened to by the other party. This does not prevent us from sometimes disagreeing on important questions, which we also clearly express. We do so in relation to Israel's occupation of Palestinian territories, the settlement policy, the construction of the security wall and other conditions. We're doing it in relation to the Palestinian authorities, for example. the importance of defeating terrorism and of making free and democratic elections. It is part of this picture that Norway has long been a central supporter of the Palestinian Authority, both through financial assistance and as the leader of the international donor country cooperation, AHLC. Let me add that precisely this role, the AHLC leadership, gives Norway the opportunity to play a role, a role we can only have if we have confidence in all parties, a trust based on the recognition and clarity of Norwegian policy. I hope that we can now look forward and focus on what is and will be Norway's role in the Middle East peace work. There is no doubt about the government's position, and I look forward to notifying it and discussing it on the first occasion I will meet with the Austrian EU Presidency in Vienna on the first Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e596	I agree that after I asked the question, there was a lot more clarity about what the Government's actual position on the matter is. At the same time, I record that even though there has been dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Israel and the State Department of the United States, it is still true that in the media world in the international context, the statements about Kristin Halvorsen's statements were considerably greater than the statements about the corrections that have come after. It leaves an unfortunate impression. If it had been the Prime Minister who had asked to answer, I would also ask a little about the basic work. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has now stated that when nothing is not in the Soria Moria Declaration, it is clear that it is not the Government's policy. But the Soria Moria Declaration is not a document covering any foreign policy situation that will arise. It is not a four-year future document that has seen the light in any conflict that is going to emerge, and there are fundamental tensions in relation to SV, on which we also tried in the election campaign to challenge the Workers' Party. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs still see all the debates as refreshing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e603	Now I believe that there is a good light on the Soria Moria declaration, both in a pictorial and textual sense, and it provides good policy guidelines. The term ‘invigorating’ — well, it depends on the taste. It's an expression to me of a democratic mindset that we have a situation with three parties in government, a situation the representative Solberg knows. It's a coalition government that has to live with that we have different views also on issues that can have a lot of emotional involvement with individuals and people. I respect the position of SV regarding the vision of boycott. I also have great respect for the finance minister's handling of this matter. There are some claims in the media that she has been punished and called in. The finance minister herself has made clear what she said in the first interview, that this is not the government's policy. We must be able to live with this, and I think we must be able to have a greater tolerance limit also in the field of foreign and security policy, where there have been debates in the closed room for too long. Whether it is refreshing – well, I think it is a positive aspect of democracy that there are discussions, and I also believe that in the field of foreign policy we should turn to it, but we must also be clear about what is the Government’s policy. It expects a world that deals with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e610	I agree that it may be refreshing to have a foreign policy debate, but perhaps not in areas that damage our reputation internationally, and that make it more difficult for us to achieve our foreign policy objectives, if there is confusion about what is actually our line as a country. It has happened in this case. It is also important that the foreign policy debate is honest. I don't see it as that line has been, among other things. The Labour Party has been involved in the debates on the left-wing revolutions that have actually taken place in the security policy, for example. related to the participation in Operation Enduring Freedom, and in the debates we have had in the past. This is also the subject of the Soria Moria Declaration, which will not affect anyone every time they are challenged in debate on it, namely that Norway will become a footnote country within NATO, linked to the strategy of nuclear defence, which is a NATO strategic cooperation with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e617	I am not aware that the Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway will become a footnote country. I can confirm that there are changes in Norwegian foreign and security policy as a result of the government change. I can take this to the representative of Solberg and say yes, the party SV has an influence on foreign and security policy. It should just be missing, after that election, with that election result. I'm comfortable with it. There is an adjustment of foreign policy, as should be done, not in an abrupt shift, but in changes in attitudes and markers. This is going to happen over time, and it's going to happen in a way that the world knows and gets well informed about. We are also doing this to our close allies, in a way that is built on the trusting dialogue we have, whether it is in relation to the Middle East, to NATO, to Europe or to our close Nordic neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e628	This question, from Vera Lyskleätt to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e631	I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions on cheap substitutes: ‘Sovermaids and women can now finally apply to receive cheap payments from the State after they have lost school during World War II. The majority joined the previous government proposal on 4 April last year. Now it turns out that the processing of these applications takes an infinite amount of time. What can the Council of State do to shorten the procedure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e640	I would like to answer the question from the representative Lyskleatt on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who has coordinating responsibility for matters relating to joint and national minorities. It is the Justice Secretariat which is responsible for the cause of the Grand Duchy's selection of cheap substitutes, and in St.meld. No 44 for 2003–04, compensation scheme for children in war and compensation schemes for the Roma/taters and older women injudicants of education, were further worked for the Justice Secretariat to deal with applications from cohabitants suffering from educational injury and women estimated at a maximum of DKK 400,000. In 2005, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs granted a fine of NOK 200000 to the Justice Secretariat for the management of applications for cheap substitutes from Samaritans and women. The government made a corresponding amount for the purpose in 2006. The Justice Secretariat has informed the applicants that the procedure will take one year from the date of receipt of the application, starting at the earliest on 4 April 2005, when the Stortinget gave its support to St.meld. No 44 for 2003–2004. Things take a long time, including: because there is a need to obtain a question about the loss of schooling from the Directorate of Education. The budget decision provides for the establishment on a temporary basis of a cheap replacement sample II, which may be taken away from increasing the amount of applications in the wake of the notification by St.meld. No 44 for 2003–2004 and St.meld. No 24 2004–2005, Replacement schemes for children in children's homes and special schools for children with behavioural disabilities. The majority handled the matter on 20 December 2005, Innst. S. No 64 for 2005-2006, and agreed that the King is creating a cheap replacement selection II. I have been informed that the Presidency will handle the matter on Thursday, 12 January, with a call to the party groups to appoint as soon as possible representatives to the LAG II and LAG I. I hope that the groups will help us quickly to put in place the cheap substitute selection. It is essential to ensure that matters are handled within reasonable time. The government agrees that the case management period is too long in these cases. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion will therefore contact other relevant government councils to see what can be done to bring the process down to an acceptable level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e651	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. Many older men and women have been working for about 20 years on this matter, and they have been waiting to experience it to receive some kind of compensation from the state. This is about older people, and many of them have unfortunately already fallen away — and it has not been replaced by any form of loss of schooling during the war, nor has it received any form of training in their own native language because of their research policy. So you have belonged to a group that has come out extremely unfortunate. In such a situation, prompt action must be taken. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State the following follow-up questions: could it be possible to set aside some extra resources for a period of time, so that those who need it can get the help they need to write applications and obtain documentation and information, and that applications are dealt with as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e660	On behalf of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, I have done good for the Government's attitude and progress in these matters. There is a heavy responsibility on the Government to make progress in these processes. When writing applications, the municipalities of Nord-Troms and Finnmark will be able to provide help to promote them, and it is of course very important for this group, which for natural reasons will not be able to do so by its own means. So I can assure the representative that the government has taken note of this matter and will do everything it can to advance the processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e667	I would also like to thank you for this reply. I have one last question: By the end of 2005, around 650 applications had been received from the co-workers and women for cheap substitutes. The Justice Secretariats first deal with such requests for compensation, and the length of proceedings here has been around four years. Thereafter, they are determined by the Charity Compensation Committee, which has three members. When will the Council of State estimate that these 650 applications, which are already there, may have been finalised in the Committee on the Exchange of Letters?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e674	It's hard for me to answer that specific question. I have to say the same thing as I said in my first answer, that we are now facilitating a process that ensures a faster handling of cases. The purpose is to ensure that all pending applications are processed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e691	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e698	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e701	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions, but which will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Strengthening Norwegian sovereignty in our northern regions is something most people agree on. At the same time, there are military signals that the number of marine bases and military camps should be greatly reduced. At the top of this, it seems that we cannot stop an old Russian fishing boat that is in Norwegian waters. How will the Council of States strengthen the Norwegian sovereignty in the north?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e710	I have the honour to give an answer on behalf of the Minister of Defence. As can be seen from the Soria Moria Declaration and the policy pursued by the Government since then, the northern regions are the strategic areas of the Government. Let me add that the defence minister and I were together in the north yesterday, among other things. together with the Defense in this regard. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests in the northern regions, the Government will increase the defence’s ability to monitor and assert sovereignty and sovereign rights. That we have increased the budget for the Coast Guard by 15 million. kr in 2006, shows that we are following up in practice what we agreed on in the Soria Moria Declaration. In addition, the Maritime Defense Team will give 35 million priority. kr to strengthen the presence of a marine vessel in North Norway and to add a greater share of the Marinen training and exercise activity to the part of the country. The government also increases the monitoring of maritime flights in the north by adding 35 million Orion flights. kr. The defense is still going to be present with all the defenses in the country. However, as part of the process of continuing the modernisation of the defence, it will also be necessary to assess the future structure of the defence base. It is too early to say something concrete about which bases and camps it may be appropriate to propose that they be laid down or moved. This will need to be considered in the context of the government’s treatment of the next long-term plan, which comes in 2008. With regard to the Russian trawler ‘Elektron’, there was never any doubt that the Norwegian authorities had been prepared to ship to Norwegian port. Operational assessments did not result in forced drilling. In these assessments, the life and health of Norwegian and Russian personnel was crucial. Let me also add that Norway places emphasis on having, and we have, the capacity to enforce our administrative and control regimes and our sovereignty in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e723	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was complementary, but not complementary enough, of course. It is positive that we increase support for the Coast Guard, but when we know how much a boat costs to operate, it is not 15 million. That's a lot. It costs to fly, and that's not enough of what we put in. When we know that oil, gas, fishing and Norwegian land areas – i.e. Norwegian sovereignty – are important, and that we all need to invest in this, we need to do more. At the same time, we know that the defense is replacing its Leopards with e.g. Mercedes Geländewagen, to cut out MLRS rocket weapon systems, that only 1/3 of our men perform first-time service, that Home Protection, which is also important in the northern areas, is reduced – Home Protection was reduced from 83,000 to 50,000 men – and that equipment stands outside and rusts while workshops/storage rooms are empty because the Defense cannot afford to pay rent to the Defence [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e730	I don't think I can stand up for all the descriptions that came out here, but it underlines the importance of having an offensive ambition for the conversion of the Defense. The ambition is to further develop a defence with a high operational capability. Since the northern regions were in focus, I would say that the defence must be present in the north with all three defenses. The army has an important task in North Norway. The centre of gravity of the production of strength has moved from south to north. Mainly, all training is now undertaken by the compulsory forces in North Norway, and the Inner Troms will be one of the two centres of gravity of the Army. For Air Force, six out of ten aircraft quadrons are located north of the polar circle, and this is also where the main weight of Air Force flight time production takes place. It is an objective to increase the scope of allied training in Norway. According to the plan, the level of allied training in North Norway will increase from 90 000 guest days in 2005 to well over 200000 in 2006. In March, the highest priority military exercise ‘Cold Response 2006’ shall be held. Let me also say that in terms of the base structure, we need to assess this when we are preparing a presentation of the spring 2008 long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e739	I thank the Council once again for the answer. In an interview in the Befalsbladet in December 2005, the Minister of Defence said that everything in the north should be in the north. When you know at the same time that the head of defense says that we're going to see if we're going to reduce the number of marine bases from four to one, that we're going to look at the number of military camps to be reduced, and that we're going to look at the number of airports where the military are involved, I'm a little bit afraid. It may be more right to have a defence budget that is proportionate to what the Stortinget wants the defence to do, and what the Norwegian people are going to do. As it is today, the defense is sub-budgeted. There is not enough money to carry out the activity that we expect the defense to have. Then the question is whether the appropriations for defence should be increased, or whether military activity should be reduced, so that we get a budget balanced between what we expect the defence to do and what the defense can do for the amount of money you get.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e746	It must be an objective that the defence has a budget that makes it possible to invest both in investment and in operation and practice. In the light of the questions raised by the representative, I would just like to stress that we have ambitions to have a defence budget and to have a planning and a horizon for the way in which investments are made, exercises and operates, which are proportionate to the challenges we face. Maybe it's important not to measure that ability by counting the individual unit and comparing it year by year. It is the ability of our units to deliver what defence is supposed to deliver according to technological developments and the security and defence policy challenges that are important. Being able to have an operational and well-adapted defence in northern Norway is an important part of the North Area Initiative and of Norway’s alliance obligations as a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e762	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e769	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e772	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment to be answered by the Minister for Transport. Let me add that I find it very unsatisfactory that the specialist councils do not prioritise Stortinget more than is the case today. I have the following questions: ‘With the support of Stortinget, extensive work was started in 2005 to reduce the heavily acidified Arendal watercourse in East Agder. A main purpose was to re-establish a viable salmon strain in the watercourse. Recently, a completely new liming plant amounted to 3 million. kr ready to lime the watercourse, as decided. Then came the message that the government cuts in the liming materials, and that the liking with it stops completely. Does the Council of State consider it good environmental policy to frustrate good environmental measures such as the liming of the Arendal river?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e783	I will answer the question from the representative Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Minister for the Environment. Pending the release of acidifying substances again to fall below the levels leading to damage to nature, liming is our most important remedial action. In recent years, the Kalking project has included some 3,000 local projects and 24 national river calving projects. During the management of the draft State budget for 2005, the Stortinget decided to start liming in the Arendal watercourse as well. Environmental powers have followed up this Decision in 2005, thus building a lime dosing system in the watercourse. In the 2006 budget, the licensing of liming was reduced as a result of overarching priorities in the current situation. The Minister for the Environment has focused on setting up the cut so that the overall negative impacts are minimised. As a result, the liming in the Arendal watercourse cannot be started as planned. The Minister for the Environment will follow the liming industry closely in the future, and she will come back to the Stortinge with measures to strengthen this work, as requested by the Stortinge in the management of the Ministry of the Environment's budget for 2006. I would like to ask you to understand that I – as the seat-state council in this matter – cannot go further into the details of the liming in the Arendal watercourse than what was revealed in my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e798	I thank you for your answer. I think that was a bad answer. I refer to the professional magazine pH status, which recently came out, where it says that a new liming plant in Nidelva can be standing unused. The rapporteur, Mr Sigmund Pedersen of the Central Party, believes that this is due to ignorance from the Minister for the Environment. The rapporteur believes that there must be funds to complete the project. The rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is right to say that it is too stupid for us to be stopped before we get started. He believes that this will work out when the minister documents how far the project has come. It was the current government parties and the Progress Party that supported the majority on more funds for liming. Now all of a sudden these government parties believe that there is no need for more means of liming. What is the reason for this dramatic turnaround during the year? Will the State Council/Ministerial take a phone call to the rapporteur in Fromand to clarify the reality of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e809	I can probably sign that there is no lack of knowledge that makes the Minister for the Environment have not seen any limination in the Arendal watercourse. The Minister is very competent, and she also has a strong desire to come back to Stortinget, as I said, with measures to improve the situation that has now arisen. As the representative knows, budget management is a priority between different areas, and in the current year's budget it led to the priority of reducing the effort in the case of liming. The next budget management operation is in progress. I can't take the Ministry of the Environment or other departments' handling here, but this is at least an area that will be the focus of those negotiations. When it comes to contact with the local level, I am overconfident that the Council of State will make the necessary contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e818	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that there is a certain hope in what is being said here, so that the liming in Nidelva and the Arendal watercourse can be carried out according to what Stortinget has previously decided. I would like to remind you that the Soria Moria Declaration states that: ‘The Government will ensure that the work on acidification of watercourses by liming is at a high level, so that all watercourses in the danger zone are limed and that voluntary efforts in the form of means and work and effort are followed up by the State.’ [[...]] In my view, a stop in the liming of Nidelva is a regular and sun-clear breach of the government statement. What is the State Council's comment on that? This calculus should have been carried out if one should take into account what is stated in the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e830	Even within the Soria Moria declaration, priorities must be set. That's probably the simple answer to the question. We are aware of the importance of liming to preserve the Atlantic salmon and to contribute to the general conservation of biological deficiency. This is also why the Minister focuses on this area and of course wants to maintain the level of the liming industry, which has a doctor, as I said, on 3,000 local projects and 24 national river-calking projects. The conservation of biological diversity and the conservation of Atlantic salmon is very important. We also have obligations in relation to international agreements, which, of course, liming can help us to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e841	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him. The question will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e844	I will ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘State power plans to put a 420 kV power line in air voltage through Hardanger, from Sima to Samnanger, have raised significant local protests as a result of the major and sham interferences this entails in the beautiful Hardanger landscape. The matter was also raised by several parties in the election campaign. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the environmental aspects of this and corresponding interventions, and does the Council of State see that such interventions in nature may be a consequence of the lack of development of new energy sources in the region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e853	I will answer the question from the representative Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy. Statnett SF's plans for the construction of a new 420 kV power line from Sima power plant to Samnanger transformer station are being managed in NVE. The power management will concern Eidfjord, Ulvik, Granvin, Kvam and Samnanger municipalities in Hordaland. The NVE manages Statnett SF's message with proposals for distribution programs according to the rules on consistency in planning and building law. The message has been out on hearings and weights, as the representative points out, large protests locally. Demands have been made from the local holder for different cable solutions. Based on the sound of the message and its own assessments, the NVE will determine a program for the consequences of the Statnet action. Here are air conduction and combination of air conduction and cable possible distribution options. After completion of the impact assessments, Statnett SF must seek a concession under the Energy Act for the power transmission. The application and the impact assessments carried out will be subject to extensive case management with a hearing where all interested parties will be heard. At this stage, local meetings under the auspices of the NVE will also be held. NVE's concession decision may then be appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The Ministry will then carry out a full review of the cases and maintain a view and meeting in the district before a final decision is taken. I therefore asked for an understanding that I could not comment specifically on this matter now. 420 kV power lines are the main year of the power system and make up the necessary and vital infrastructure for our society. Such leases may result in major interference with the natural landscape. During concession management, all relevant environmental conditions shall be carefully assessed. In all cases, adaptations and remedial measures should be considered in order to reduce the disadvantages of the measure, and NVE may impose conditions on such measures in a concession. A remedial measure may be a trasé adjustment. In the case of wiring as remedial measures, I refer to the current management strategy, established by the Stortinget, which states that 420/300 kV should be built as a general rule as air conduction. In the case of very strong environmental considerations, it may be appropriate to impose cabling requirements. The relationship between network and production is assessed by NVE in the context of concession management by energy law. I am sure that the necessary assessments will be made in handling this matter. On a general basis, it is, of course, as the representative suggests, that investments in local or regional power generation in a sub-area could, if appropriate, replace, suspend or reduce the fidelity of the construction of new transmission facilities into the area. On the other hand, new generation of power locally or regionally, whether water power or gas power, may result in increased transmission out of the area and thus update the trough for new transmission connection. All these questions are up to Statnett as a transmission system operator in Norway to assess. Thus, according to the socio-economic criterion, Statnett is responsible for carrying out investments in the central transmission system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e872	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, although I think it is strange and a little unfortunate that the Minister for the Environment will not answer a question that obviously concerns the environmental aspects of the air voltage plans. Hardanger is part of a unique national fjord landscape, and power lines will be a major intervention over a long stretch of the fjord landscape. The line also crosses the Kvamskogen, which is an important recreational area for the mountain region. All municipalities on the route are opposed and organised to combat the plans. The matter was also raised in the election campaign, and the podium representative, Rune J. Kjellaaen, from the Senterpartiet, spoke to the Official Journal of Bergen on 18 August last year: ‘Hardangs as tourist destinations are at stake and we need to find solutions other than air voltages.’ [...] ‘We’ll have to take that account, not just the mountain separators, but all stream subscribers.’ The slider then commented to put the cable in a sea cable. Has the government considered a new policy in relation to the construction of power lines, or were the comments from the Schjellaa also non-committal election campaigning?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e886	As I have done well in my answer, it is an extensive process before this matter is settled, and in turn the cause will come to the oil and energy minister's table. When she gets there, the Minister of Oil and Energy will express the Government's attitude to this issue. So I can't go into the details about it anymore, nor can I express the Government's attitude today, as things haven't come into handling yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e891	I would also like to thank you for this reply. I would say that really this powerline should be completely unnecessary. The obvious solution here is to meet regional power requirements through the construction of gas power plants. We have large gas resources in the North Sea. Everything is designed for the construction of gas power stations in this region, and then these power lines are unlikely to be necessary in the foreseeable future. This was also something on which Mr. Olav Aksensen of the Workers' Party came up in the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 January, where he proposed to build a gas power plant in the Raadalen in the mountain area, where the waste heat can also be used effectively for heating. This is a proposal that I agree with the heart. Does the Council of State see that we are at risk of major interference in the natural landscape as a result of the inaction in the development of power, and that these expansions could be avoided if we realised gas power expansion in the Western region?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e900	As I did well in my main response, increasing production can also lead to increased demand for transmission lines, not to take power into the area, but to bring power out. I am aware that there are concrete plans in the area, including: on a gas power plant in Mongstad, currently under operation in NVE. I would also like to refer to the Soria Moria statement where one states that work on new gas power plants is not started without CO2 handling being in place. It's a work that's now in progress, and it has the greatest attention in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Of course, the oil and energy minister will continue to work on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e914	This question, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e917	‘According to NTB 3.1., the Council of State states that ‘it is already too late to meet a significant undercoverage in Møre and Romesdal from 2010’. Aps County rapporteur Jon Aasen requires two gas power plants, without cleaning, and says ‘we have to start producing electricity, and then the cleaning can come later. Alternatives to gas power are not available’. Sp-Rapporteur Gunnar Hynne in Hemne is behind the propeller «Yes to the construction of gas power plants on the Tent Goods, without requirements for cleaning the first day!». Will the Government waive the CO2 management requirement?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e927	I will answer the question from the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy. The Norwegian energy supply was once characterized by excess power. Several years of consumption growth combined with a limited build-up of power make Norway today a net importer of power in years of normal rainfall. As a result, the power system has been more vulnerable to precipitation failures. Powers have a lot of attention on the power situation in Middle Norway. This is particularly true of the situation in More and Romesdal. State networks are now working on analyses of the situation in the area. The analyses show that the benefits of network reinforcements will be great. There will also be significant network savings related to the establishment of new production in the region. The Minister for Oil and Energy has invited actors in the area to a meeting to discuss the situation and possible measures. In this context, it is important to pay particular attention to the potential to increase production. As stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government is its policy in relation to gas power, based on the fact that given concessions are on the ground, and that the production of gas power is to be part of the international quota system, which ensures that the total emissions do not increase. The government has set itself the goal of Norway being a leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has warned that the work on establishing a full-scale CO2 removal plant on Kårstø will start up and that one will contribute financially to this. If it is relevant to apply the given gas power station concessions to Forest and Kollsnes, the Government will also contribute to CO2 removal. Economic instruments and investment in new technologies will enable new gas concessions to be based on CO2 removal. The work on CO2 cleaning is a priority area for the Government in the future. What will be the best organisation of government involvement depends on multiple relationships related to time perspective, cost assessments and legal framework conditions. The 2006 effort is therefore directed towards clarifications in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e954	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a straightforward description of reality, but without a single concrete solution that could solve the problem. The power situation in More and Romesdal is very critical. During 2010, three new industrial enterprises, Hydro Aluminium, Hustadmarmor and Worm Lange, which means that the state’s power balance is going to be very poor. In fact, 7 TWh needs new power in the region to be self-sufficient. That's equal to 5 pst today. of national consumption. On this basis, the Government has no solution – in addition to pointing out that Statnet will evaluate the network structure. Statnett has given a very clear advice. They have said that gas power plants must be built today, and it must be built without CO2 cleaning, if necessary. The government here shows that they're willing to play the game with the power situation in More and Romesdal, just because they're going to have to have their ideological formulations in the Soria Moria Declaration. A relevant question is then: does the Council see the impact it will have on industry and households in the county if the requirement for CO2 cleaning actually delays this gas power plant, which is needed by 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e969	I can assure you that the Minister for Oil and Energy is well aware of the challenges in Central Norway. That's also the background for him having a meeting with many implicated parties from central Norway already on 16 January to discuss this important issue. It is important to play on layers with the local instances. It is important to get a good picture of the situation and get some information about what should be the best way forward. When it comes to the Soria Moria statement, it's not ideological. It makes sense to think in a long-term environmental perspective. That is what this government stands for, and that is what the oil and energy minister aims at in his work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e976	I thank you again for the answer. There is no point in meeting when Statnett, a specialist in the field, says that gas power plants need to be built without CO2 management, and when the NVE says that from 2010 they cannot guarantee either security of supply or a normal price level in the county. The problem is precisely the government's policy in this area. Several of the Council of State’s party colleagues in More and Romesdal – and even representatives of big business, Ola Borten Moe, according to the Address Paper – have participated in the formulation of this appeal against the government’s existing policy. The workers' party rapporteurs in both More and Romesdal and South-Trøndelag say that the government's policy is flawed. The problem is the requirement for framework conditions with regard to CO2 management in order to clean the exhaust gas. No one believes that it will be possible by 2010. Even Statnett says that. There is a major element of uncertainty as to who has to cover the costs. As long as the builder risks having to cover them, no gas power plant will be built. This is why a solution has to be found to make this realistic. Will the Government propose to amend the Soria Moria Declaration in this area in order to prevent a power crisis in Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e993	I have great respect for the representative's commitment in this area. Judging the government's policy north and down after three months, I thought maybe I was going a long way, and also being so technology-pessimistic that one doesn't think it's possible to find good solutions for CO2 handling. The government is technology-optimists, but we see that economic instruments, good planning and good cooperation are needed. The government co-operates with the developers on installations for CO2 cleaning and financial contributions to realise them as quickly as possible. By means of economic instruments and investing in new technology, we believe that we can help to ensure that new concessions are also based on CO2 management. The government wants to find a safe and secure way to secure the energy supply to Middle Norway. It is right to think about long-term and forward-looking, rather than short-term, in both energy policy and environmental policy contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1022	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1029	‘Kristiansand Airport Kjevik is a full-time airport of Avinor. This entails both rights and obligations. There has been little focus on the aerodrome from Avinor’s side, although it has largely gone with profits and has a passenger base that is increasing. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the aerodrome is upgraded to a modern and timely aerodrome, compared to other airports in the country that are running with profits?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1036	Since Avinor is organised as a limited liability company, Avinor's board of directors adopts the annual investment budgets. Of course, the government is not entirely free. It is the governing powers that define the airport structure, and Avinor must sympathize to ensure that all airports can operate in a defenceable way. The airports, for example, need to be: meet the current requirements of the Air Safety Authority at any time. Avinor says that over the last two years, it has invested some 25 million. kr in the terminal building at Kjevik. This applies mainly to security measures and some minor extensions. The investment level in the next few years will be high. In the 2006 budget, a larger extension of the terminal building is estimated to cost 65 million. kr. Work is scheduled to start towards the end of 2006. New tower to 35 million. kr is also under design. In 2004, Kjevik Airport went on an economic balance, while the 2005 preliminary figures show a small surplus. The major challenges of Kjevik in the next few years are related to requirements for a larger safe area at both ends of the runway. This could cost about 200 million. kr. Such expansion will be provided in the context of a new area control plan. Positive developments are also taking place with regard to traffic developments. Avinor states that from 11 February 2006, SAS Braathens will open a new route to Alicante, while from 1 March KLM will double its capacity to Amsterdam. From 28 March 2006, SAS Braaten will increase its capacity on the road to Copenhagen. In view of the developments in Kjevik, there is no doubt that both Avinor and the airlines are investing in Kjevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1051	One sees that it's a aftermath. Otherwise, it might not have been the basis for the addition that happens in the next two years. One can also compare with other counties, e.g. Moor and Romesdal, where there are four airports serving the same passenger base as in Agder. Should not, therefore, counties such as West-Agder and East-Agder be able to expect at least one high-level operational aerodrome in the part of the country, without one having to wait year after year before having to do something about it – almost by an emergency decision? In addition, one might see that the additions made in 2006/2007 may not be good enough to make it as high as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1058	Since Avinor is a limited liability company, and it is Avinor who is responsible for the distribution and the economic priorities at the level of detail, I cannot give a detailed opinion on the plans that are in place, because they are not on my table. As the Council of State, I am a general assembly and not a daily leader or board. But I am confident that the investments that are made are time-consuming, and that they are designed to make Kjevik a decent airport, not just by today's standard, but, of course, by the standard we're going to have in the future. I understand the question in relation to the fact that some other states have several airports. It's a structure that's built and that's lying there. This state council has no plans to do anything with it. My goal is to enable Avinor to secure all our airports a decent and forward-looking development – including Kjevik. I mean, the plans ahead, take height for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1065	If it is now the case that Avinor is unable to fulfil the obligations, with funding, etc., then the Council of State is willing to do something, such as: with the charging basis, in order to attract new aircraft operators and increase competition, and ultimately also to assess, as appropriate, the ownership structure of the aerodrome?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1070	Per. Today I have no plans to assess the ownership structure. When it comes to the second question, I'm going to say it's hypothetical. I thought we should have confidence in Avinor's plans, which are, of course, elaborated in close dialogue with local authorities, and that they would look after the requirements we see that Kjevik has, and that people in Agder County have, to have a decent airport both today and into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1081	I would first like to thank the Minister of Transport for being one of the very few state councils that have taken the time to come here today. I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The number of accidents involving deaths and serious injuries has declined markedly in 2005 for the country as a whole, in fact the lowest number of deaths of 50 years. Unfortunately, developments have gone in the wrong direction for Uppland County, 2005 was an accident-related year. E6 through the Gudbrand valley has now inherited the questionable status of one of the country's most dangerous routes, after Eastfold and Westfold were given the 4-field motorway. What will the State Council do to reverse the negative trend in Uppland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1092	In 2005, 11 people were killed in traffic accidents at E6 in Gudbrandsdalen. This is significantly more than in 2004, when two people were killed. In recent years, an average of six people have been killed in traffic accidents on this route. The majority of the clocks have been meeting times. This shows that there are considerable variations from year to year. Among other things, as a result of the accident situation, the State Road Service will initiate an assessment of E6 through the Gudbrand valley with a view to establishing a comprehensive strategy for measures that can provide a safer and better way in the short and long term. Assessment of road standards, costs, funding and order of development will be central to this work. Since the meeting openings make up an important part of the serious openings of the section, the physical middle part trough will be an important assessment theme. On the E6 north of Lillehammer, the zero vision project of the State Road Administration has established a test section with different road widths and mid-sections and new types of centreline marking. The ETA will provide the results for these and other trials in planning actions both in the short and longer term. The level of speed on the road has a major impact on safety. Today there are nine points for automatic traffic control – so-called photoboxes – between Lillehammer and Otta. This is an effective form of speed control. The state Road Service is in consultation with the police to assess whether several such points are appropriate on the route. The state road system has established its own accident analysis teams in all regions during 2005. The groups are composed of professionals with both road, driving and pedagogical competence. All fatal traffic accidents are investigated by these groups. After examining all E6 deaths in the Gudbrandsdalen in 2005, there is likely to be a better basis for assessing measures. The state roadway will follow up this work. The State Road Service shall also increase efforts on the technical control of heavy goods vehicles, including: checking of brakes and tyres. The 2006-2015 Action Programme is intended to implement the deployment of E6 on the Tingberg-Treet route in the municipality of Øyer during this period. Under the commitment of partial toll financing of the project, it has been committed to plant start-up during the first four-year period. In addition, smaller investment measures and other immediate measures will be implemented, in line with what has been outlined above. Major E6 investments in the Gudbrandsdalen beyond the Tingberg–Tretten sections will have to be assessed at the next revision of the national transport plan for the period 2010–2019. I see this work going on in the department now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1111	I thank you for the answer, although I think it was incredibly negative. It's actually not eleven deaths, it's 13, and it's unfortunately possible that it's 14, after the last one that happened. The newspaper Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen says today that Vegvesenet has plans for an extension, and they can be finished planning through the Gudbrandsdalen in 2006. On the way from Ottawa and southwards, which actually doesn't even have yellow stripe, i.e. that the road has a width of less than 6,5 metres, there is no need to set up a middle part at all, because then there is nothing left of the road. Will it not then be in line with what the Vegvesenet says in today's newspaper, to complete the planning work this year, and then go for an extension from the Ott and southwards, where the worst places are, i.e. Do this while waiting for the planning of the double-track railway from Minnesund to Hamar and the planning of the four-field road from Minnesund and northwards – because there is a discussion about whether it should go in the tunnel, whether it should go up on the hill, or whether it should go down? Couldn't you start in the Gudbrand valley, where it's very dangerous to travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1120	First, I am very sorry if I have been informed about the wrong number. I'm very sorry about that. When it comes to the representative Nistad's proposal on re-priorities, the representative understands, of course, that I cannot answer it above the table here. This is not the way processes go, and it knows Nistad, with its seagoing service in the Committee on Transport, very well. The recordings he makes, I'd like to accept and evaluate, but unfortunately I can't give a handy answer over the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1127	Now the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party had a joint proposal on the Transport Committee when it came to the National Transport Plan, that we should increase the appropriations for roads by DKK 1 billion per year. years. It was not granted a strange sum this year. So what's next year? Will the Council of State then increase this sum to NOK 2 billion, or will it still be like this year, that nothing is going to happen in particular? In addition, I just want to say that each of these deaths in the Gudbrand valley cost society about $25 million. kr, so the sums a user spends on this route, are soon such that one can build, unfortunately, the road free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1134	To take the last one first: there is no doubt that deaths in traffic involve considerable economic costs, but above all, the costs and suffering of those who lose their loved ones are high. I must include: to Upland in a short time and be there to mark it. When budgetary appropriations are made available, the target is set. Of course, the Council of State will allow these money, but it's going into a budgetary process, and we have to consider it against other priorities. But the goal is established. I don't want to say 460 million. kr is a little bit. I think it's more than the Progress Party might add to the budget year ahead, where one was negotiating with the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1145	‘The post wants to co-locate its functions in a new main terminal for Eastern Europe. The post itself wants to establish the terminal at Robsrud in Lørenskog, but the local environment fears the increased amount of traffic, noise and pollution that will result. The aim of the size is, inter alia, through the national transport plan, to transfer goods from road to rail. How does this objective harmonize with the Posten location on Robsrud?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1152	The Post Norway AS wants to locate the new Austrian terminal for letters and packages at Robsrud in Lørenskog. Furthermore, the Post would like to co-locate its operations before heavier goods at Alnabru in Oslo. Final liabilities n.e.c. Nor-Cargo's business, which today is located at Karihaugen in Oslo and Skårersletta in Lørenskog. According to the Post, a terminal solution for letters and packages on Robsrud and a heavy goods terminal on Alnabru will facilitate the transfer of freight from road to rail. The post office refers to the fact that heavier goods are transported primarily in containers that are relevant for transporting on the railway. According to the Post, Alnabru will be an ideal location of the Post Office's operations before heavier goods, especially from the vicinity of the railway, and this will enable the company to continue the work of transferring freight from road to road. A new Austrian terminal at Robsrud will, after the Post's analyses, lead to a decline in the scope of transport to the enterprise as a result of the current scattered letter sorting being collected in one place and the company achieving a better capacity utilisation of the cars, i.e. higher filling levels. When it comes to car-to-car transfers, the Post continues to point out that letters and packages are either sent to the Gardermoen to be transported by air or go directly to the Posten pre-defined distribution network in the Austland area. To the extent that it is possible to send lighter goods by rail, this will follow the Post will be transported by car from Robsrud to Alnabru. I would like to remind you that the Post under the government of Bondevik II was converted into a public limited liability company in which the board of directors of the company has a separate responsibility for the organisation of the business. This is the way it is up to the board to choose a place to locate the terminals of the company. As the manager of the State's ownership of the Post, I do not, on the basis of the Post's presentation, see the grounds for entering into and reviewing the Board's judgements and decisions in this matter. The matter will be brought before the administrative authorities responsible for the interests of society in such regulatory matters, the municipalities concerned, the counties and, where appropriate, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, if there is a contradiction with the regulatory plan. The regulation plan for Robsrud is planned to be handled by Lørenskog Municipality Board on 8 February 2006. If the current government gives Posten permission to build terminals on Robsrud, I, the owner of Posten, expect the company to find good transport and infrastructure solutions that minimise local environmental pressures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1169	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and have the following additional questions: in the government statement, the Groruddalen has been particularly highlighted as a field of activity for less car traffic and pollution. If the Post gets what they want with the Robsrud plan, it will represent a very large increase in traffic and lead to a deterioration of the pollution in the Groruddalen. It is a great paradox that a state-owned establishment of this size can be the first to break the credibility of the government statement on the Groruddalen. How should the population be confident that politicians take the environment seriously if politicians do not focus on environmental considerations in decisions in businesses they own?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1176	The government focuses a lot on the Grorud Valley. It has recently, at the latest Monday of this week, held a meeting on the Groruddalen with a view of representatives from three departments and from the Municipality of Oslo. We have a good dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo about developments in the Groruddalen, and we follow it up with the state councils that it adopted. When it comes to the location of the Item, there are many assessments that the Item’s Board of Directors has made — and, of course, the daily rental. I'm not going into them. I stick to my role as owner, where I don't go into these kinds of everyday operational issues. I have asked myself about the process, and I trust that a person will take care of the moments that he should consider – both the Post's own assessments, of course, and those that go on the most environmentally friendly transport and the least possible loads for the local environment in the area in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1183	I thank the Council of State for the answer. According to Romerikes Blad on Friday 23 December, the Council of State supports the Posten's plans to build on Robsrud. Governments are probably familiar with the local process that is taking place. How much emphasis will the Council of State place on the decision as the local elected members of the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1188	These state councils always focus on decisions taken by local and regional elected bodies. It might be related to me just coming from both levels and knowing how important it is to be heard centrally. The previous government has reorganized the Post of an AS, so the Council of State does not have room for action in this matter. If the Post had been a government agency under the state council, I would have a completely different way of having tools to go in and make assessments with the local municipalities. As it is now organised by the previous government, I believe that I have my own role, but that there is a board of directors and a daily lease that is responsible for day-to-day operations, and that is also responsible for having a good dialogue with the local government in all the planning work. I have no reason to believe that the Post has not had such a dialogue in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1231	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1238	This question, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1241	I am not as pleasant as the previous ones, who have postponed their question for the next time. I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘What initiative will the Council of State take to consider, for example, the introduction of deadlines in serious moral matters, including the assessment of the imposition of any increased penalties against the prosecution authority in cases of serious misconduct?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1248	I will answer the question on behalf of the Minister of Justice. Under the Criminal Procedures Act, the issue of charges for a criminal offence, including moral crimes, shall be settled as soon as the case is sufficiently prepared. If the suspect was under 18 years of age at the time of the act, the question shall as a general rule be settled within six weeks of suspicion. Once the case has been sent to the court for judgment, the court shall refer to the main proceedings ‘as soon as possible’. As a general rule, the main proceedings shall be considered no later than two weeks after the case has been brought into the main proceedings. In cases where the victim was under 18 years of age when the crime was committed or was sent to custody, there are separate deadlines. The main proceedings shall then be opened within six weeks of the date on which the case was brought before the main proceedings if ‘no special circumstances prevent’. Similarly, appeal proceedings shall be initiated within eight weeks of the appeal to the Lawyers' Court being referred to appeal proceedings. In addition to the time limits laid down by law, the Advocate General has set targets for the police and prosecution authorities' work on criminal matters. Serious sexual offences are among the types of cases to be prioritised under the Circular of the National Advocate. There is no doubt that, in many cases, the length of the proceedings in matters of morality has been long. However, the National Attorney and the Police Directorate report that significant improvements are now being seen and that the average time of handling resolved crimes is generally significantly reduced during 2005. The police and prosecution authorities are unquestionably on the right track. I would like to stress that it is important that the work already done by the police and the prosecution authority in reducing the time taken to deal with the case should continue. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 395 for 2003–04, the Stortinget has asked the Government to develop ‘a comprehensive package of measures to reduce the time spent in criminal proceedings’. Following the decision, the package of measures shall include: contain ‘an investigation of the time limit for the removal of charges and the prosecution of criminal proceedings’. The Ministry of Justice is working on responding to the request decision and a hearing note will be sent in a short time. Furthermore, I mention that the so-called 'Communication', which is intended to determine how to strengthen the criminal procedural position of the offended person, will deliver its report during the spring. The committee's investigation will be followed up with a hearing. Under Section 324 of the Criminal Code, a public servant who deliberately fails to perform a duty may be penalised by fines or loss of service. Similarly, an official who is grossly incapacitated in his duties may be punished by fines and, in some serious cases, by loss of service, cf. Section 325 of the Criminal Code. These provisions will be reviewed in the context of the work on new criminal law, in particular in force in the Ministry of Justice. For the time being, my impression is that we have appropriate rules on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1265	I thank you for your answer. We recently read about how the prosecution authority has spent three years and five months from a pedophile trial, until the case was brought before the court – and this is where there was recognition of a number of criminal offences. The Advocate General responded by denoting the proceedings as a matter of order. This is just one example, which I do not ask the Council of State to comment on, but on a general basis I see it so that this is suitable to weaken the confidence of the judiciary. It's very stressful for the defendant, but perhaps most of all for the victims. This case, which the Council of State does not have to comment on, is actually an example of which there are several. What concrete initiatives and measures does the Council of State envisage in order to strengthen the position of the victims — in view of the imprudence of the prosecution authority and the sanctions referred to by the Council of State? Is the Council of State satisfied with the fact that, in theory, it is as good as it is that the prosecution authority can be confronted with reactions when there is urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1274	I would like to draw the attention of this issue in the Ministry of Justice to the work being done on the overall package of measures to reduce the time spent in criminal proceedings, and also to the work being done in the Committee on Prosecution. Here and now I do not want to pre-conclusion regarding the work done here. There is something that the Minister of Justice will come back to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1281	I understand that. Time limits are also a double edged sword. But I have one last follow-up question to the Council of State – on behalf of the Government. As far as the need for justice is concerned, there are deadlines for something, for example: for drug offences, not for serious moral crimes. What difference does the Council of State see between serious drug crimes and serious moral crimes in view of any centrally initiated deadlines? And do the Council of State and the Government see with open eyes the possible introduction of deadlines for this kind of serious morality, which I outlined in my previous question?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1288	I will again draw attention to the attention given to this issue and to the work being done on an overall package of measures to reduce criminal proceedings. There are several areas involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1304	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1311	Let me first say that I am pleased that there are some government councils that have not gone away, and that the Minister of Health and Health has found time to step into the Storting. My question is therefore addressed to the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The evening post reported on 2 January that more people are getting help from private hospitals for the public account, and that the authorities are getting more treatment for the money from private people than before. In DN on 30 December, Inga Marte Thorkildsen stated that the Council of State should instruct undertakings to restrict the use of private operators and that the contractual periods should be shorter. Will the Council of State follow the invitation of Thorkildsen to instruct health firms, and in that case what consequences will it have for the provision of patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1322	As a matter of fact, the Government wants primarily to solve key welfare tasks through good use of the public service provision. In the health sector, the situation is that private actors, both those based on ideals and those based on commercial purposes, have contributed constructively to the important work of reducing unworthy waiting times and long waiting lists in recent years. Contracts and cooperation between regional health establishments and private service providers shall, of course, continue to be handled in a clean and sound manner. At the same time, in this government, as the representative knows well, we have chosen to have a differentiated approach to private actors. The Soria Moria Declaration suggests that the scope of the agreement between regional health establishments and private commercial hospitals should be limited in future. Here, of course, assessments need to be made in relation to the needs situation and the appropriate needs to be met in each region. Fortunately, since the entry into force of the health reform, waiting times have been significantly reduced. I think that's very good. We will continue to ensure that waiting times are kept low. But we primarily want the capacity of public hospitals to be exploited in a much better way than is the case today. At the same time, we have marked the need to ensure good conditions for private hospitals, run by non-profit institutions serving households. When agreements are concluded with private commercial operators, of course, mutual predictability will be central. In these days, as the respondent is well aware, business meetings with regional health companies are being prepared, where the governance message for the current year – as owner – is to be disseminated. Here the Government Platform will be disseminated with regard to the relationship with private actors. But I can assure the representative Wage that the backstop for different management requirements is still a good service for patients, both in terms of availability, quality and short waiting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1333	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that the Council of State initially expressed itself in recognition of the efforts made and the article in the Evening Post documents through statistics. On that point, we are in complete agreement. But I would like to follow up by asking whether the Council of State agrees with me that there is reason to believe that the users of Norwegian healthcare, those who are treated in hospitals, are concerned with one thing, namely professionally good treatment, prompt treatment, and that they are probably very little concerned with the name of the institution where they receive this treatment, or whether the institution is organised in one or the other way or the third way. If we agree with the pragmatic approach that it is the needs of the users that need to be at the centre, why is it so suspended to divide private providers into different categories? Can't that be the users you're busy with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1340	As Minister of Health and as a representative of this government, it is of course the patients I am primarily concerned with, and that there should be good quality, good professional level and minimum waiting lists. Then I think the representative has a point in saying that those who are being treated – if they wait as long as possible, get the best treatment possible, etc. – is not so concerned about where they get it, but only that they get it. But we believe that there is still some free capacity in some public places that can be exploited in a much better way. We believe that it is more important than governing according to the principles of the previous government – to facilitate even more agreements between private, commercial actors. That is what we want to limit, and we believe that the sum of this does not offer patients anything worse than what has been the policy up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1347	It is then natural to follow-up to ask the Council of State if she will base the principle of communicating with the companies and giving them guidance signals, that before any contractual activity with private operators should be stepped down, one should be 100 pst. to ensure that patients do not become harmed — by longer waiting times, or by the fact that the offer is less professionally viewed. Can we be absolutely sure that this will be the case, and that there are no assumptions as to what could be the availability of public institutions, so that patients become test rabbits for how well public institutions are able to use their resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1354	I can assure the representative Wage that as Minister of Health, I will do what is in my power to ensure that patients are offered the best possible offer – that they are waiting for the shortest possible time, and that they are offered the best possible quality. Of course, our health policy is not based on assumptions. But it's so that in part of our regions and in part of our hospitals, there's evidence that there's a good deal of available capacity. We believe it should be fully exploited instead of spending so many resources on private, commercial actors. But there are contracts with some private ones, and it's not like they're being zeroed out now. Nor is it the case that we should cancel contracts until we are sure that there is another offer that is good for both waiting time and quality, but the management signal is clear: we must use the public capacity, give good conditions to voluntary and non-profit hospitals and give less to what is commercial. This is quite clear. But it's not based on assumptions, it's built on ensuring that we have short waiting times for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1365	First: Happy New Year to the Council of State! So to the question, which also revolves around hospitals: ‘There is still a division of resources between the regional health establishments that makes Health West, and thus Health Bergen and Haukeland University Hospitals, too scarcely allocated by funds in relation to allocation in other health regions. In the context of the 2006 budget work in the Health West, statutory hospital duties are now notified if the budget frameworks are implemented. What is the plan of the Council of State to ensure that the statutory hospital services are ensured for all healthcare providers in the Health West?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1376	I would also like the representative, and everybody else in this House, to have a good new year. To the question: It is correct, as the representative Sortevik points out, that Health West, with a background in history, has had a lower level of funding than the average for the country. There is no doubt about this. It is a level of appropriations which was continued when the five regional health establishments were set up in 2002. This has meant that Health West has had lower transfers per capita than other regional health establishments. In St.meld. No 5 for 2003–04, Specialised Health Income System, new cost keys were provided for the allocation of the basic allocation between regional health establishments to be implemented progressively over the year. The notification was addressed by the Stortinget in December 2003. This conversion means that the Health West has increased appropriations in 2005 and 2006 and that they will in the future receive increased appropriations in 2007 and 2008. In other words, this bias shall be corrected. In the context of Storting’s treatment of the state budget for the current year, Stortinget joined the government’s proposal of 500 million. kr more to hospital in 2006 than the Bondevik government had proposed. This means that Health West has received 140 million. kr more than the Bondevik administration had originally proposed for patient treatment for the current year. This means that the high level of activity can be continued, and that it can be treated at national level well over 20,000 more patients. The government is concerned with correcting the distribution of imbalances between health regions. In the Government's Declaration of Accession, we have said that the distribution of income between health regions should be corrected faster than that envisaged in the St.meld. No 5 – the one I referred to instead. Such deferral was also adopted in connection with the treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge in 2005. An even faster creation of this is a matter to which the Government must come back in connection with the budget for next year. The size has adopted a budget for the regional health enterprises for 2006, including: assumes that regional health establishments will be in an economic balance during that year. It also applies to the Health West. The size has also been known to require further conversions in several regions in 2006 to meet this balance sheet requirement. It will also emerge from my management of Health West through the corporate meeting we are going to have at the end of this month. The recently issued health-vest order document states that health-vest must carry out statutory tasks, i.e.: discharge its responsibilities as ‘supplier’. Regional health establishments shall ensure that the population is provided with relevant services under the laws in force and under other authority directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1394	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The starting point for covering the bias distribution, which is a broad consensus to do, has a weakness that it only covers up approximately. one fifth of the bias identified through a separate study on the funding system and the financial instrument for regional health enterprises. So there's about 500 million missing. kr for the Health West, in addition to the distribution of bias which is now agreed to cover. This has become so serious that there is a point marker among 8,500 employees in Health Bergen today. I see that the Council of State says to the evening post today that the residence should no longer determine which treatment one receives if one comes to the hospital, but that is actually what the patients in Health West / Health Bergen, and those who parish to Haukeland Hospital also experience as a local hospital. This perception is actually supported by the employees, not least from medical teams and responsible medical teams, who warn against the cuts in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1401	In terms of the bias distribution, we're dedicated to correcting it. I can't now go into and go well for what numbers apply, but we'll get back to any further redundancy of it in the government budget for next year. For the current year, it has been decided that we are going forward one year faster than what was originally foreseen in the plans. When this government was able to raise 500 million. kr more than it originally was due to, after we had been sitting in the Council chairs for 14 days to three weeks, I don't think it's very bad, but I understand that this hasn't solved all the challenges in Health-Norway. It is also the case that the Storing has decided that there should be a financial balance in all our health businesses in the current year, so there are in a way two considerations that go a little against each other. It is clear that it poses challenges in the Health West and in other parts of the country. We're going to correct the bias distribution. There's been more money. What is going on is that we have to decide in the budgets, but I am, of course, very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1408	I thank you again for the answer. Today’s patients and patients in 2006 are the most concerned and for good reason. The cuts that are notified will go beyond, among other things. treatment of cancer patients and lead to delivery of births to the home one day after they have been born at the Women’s Clinic, which is linked to Haukeland Hospital. It's a patient rights law that gives patients rights. It is also the case that there is supervision, both health and occupational safety, which has highlighted irresponsible conditions at this large hospital, which are due to lack of money. Is there a lack of money in Norway? Is there a lack of money that means that this majority government, which has said it will improve the hospital economy and develop the quality of the welfare society and welfare services, cannot do anything for those patients who need hospital treatment in 2006? Should they wait until they recover or hope for better conditions in 2007 and 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1417	There can be no doubt that statutory duties and laws will be followed, including in the West of Health and in Health Bergen. I assume that the management of the Health West is looking at – and I am sure they are – the situation that is now in Health Bergen, and especially linked to the Haukeland Hospital, in view of the fact that this is being followed up. We have received significantly more money for the current year. What had to come from money in the future, I expect the representative to understand that I cannot answer in a few days in the new year – but it is clear that I am very aware of the situation in the hospital sector. But this government has now moved to sit for about two and a half months, and we're not going to make revolution in such a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1428	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The framework has been working in 2005 to dispose of a number of lighthouses. The goal has been to make them available to most people. On the basis of signals from government party representatives, the process has stopped in relation to two guys in Rogaland. What is the status of this sales process, and what guidelines will the Government base on the disposal of first-time contracts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1437	In St. prp. No 1 for 2004–2005 for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is added to the disposal of several first instalments in 2005. This shall contribute to the active use of the properties. It is budgeted for about 10 million. SEK in the income of the country from the sale of fireworks in 2005.’» The size agreed with this proposal. In 2005, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Coastal Agency have handed over several first instalments to municipalities, and I refer you to the letter of 4 January 2006 from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to the Landfill representative Kvassheim, which provides an overview of the status of disposal of each first instalment. As regards the firing policy, this is mentioned at the latest in the Report of St. No 28 for 2000-2001 The First Generations – Position and significance of a modern navigation infrastructure. In this message, the following procedure was used for the disposal of fireworks: Current state, county or municipal institutions are contacted for possible transfer, preferably at tariff level.If these are not interested, associations for non-profit purposes will be contacted. Finally, it will be assessed to sell to private persons or to tear down the installation. Any transfer will require maintenance. Fireworks shall initially be disposed of at market prices. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department of Fisheries has provided the basis for obtaining a tariff which provides the basis for such a market price. Taxiing shall also take into account the limitations imposed by a rescue operation on the property. I would point out that by the Royal Resolution of 9 December 2005, the Council of State Odd Eriksen was appointed as the Council of State for me to deal with the disposal of Obrestad Principality in Haå Municipality, which I suppose is one of the guys referred to in the question. I cannot therefore go into the actual disposal of this prince. In relation to the process, I can inform you that Rogaland County has, upon request, been given the deadline to respond to the offer until 31 January 2006. The municipality of Eigersund has received an offer to take over the Vibberodden Führung at a taxi. On request, the municipality also has a deadline of 31 January 2006 to respond to the offer. Consequently, the process in relation to the disposal of the two mentioned guys has not stopped. Both the county and the municipalities concerned have, upon request, been given an extended response period, so that the necessary clarifications are available before the answers are given. The fireworks often have a unique location. As part of ensuring that the public is given the opportunity to make use of this, it is added that the disposal of the first few is done in the priority order I mentioned in the introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1477	I thank you for the answer, which confirms that the process the previous government provided has been successful in the sense that most of the guys that were put out for sale have been sold to municipalities or left to the directorate so that they remain available to the public. I perceive the Council of State's response this way, and ask for confirmation, that she undertakes to pursue the policy of the previous government both in terms of the objective of their being given to the public, and that sales take place at a price. The last thing is important, because when it's stopped, and it's actually done in relation to two current guys in Rogaland, it's because government representatives have said that now it's going to be a new policy, new guidelines, and then the municipalities have asked for it to be clarified before they respond. Can the Council of State give some guidance on how long you expect it to go before the remaining guys are disposed of and you have found a solution to this? And, does the council know that there are more quadruple properties than the 19 that are now out of sale, that it might be relevant to sell?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1484	The government is basing its policies on which the Storting has joined. In the case of Obrestad guy specifically, I have declared myself incapacitated in that case, and I will not comment on the process around it fired in addition to what I have done in my reply. As regards Vibberodden, the county council, as mentioned above, has a deadline of 31 January. But I want to make it clear here that the process has not stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1491	I want to repeat my last question as to whether the Council of State is aware that there are several quay properties that it might be relevant to sell. I refer you to the Soria Moria statement, where one is concerned that lighthouses are secured for the public. The previous government added that 19 properties would be, and that also seems to be the result. The question is whether the government's policy is to move forward on this track. I didn't have any particular questions about Obrestad guy, but there was a general question about the state council will help to make a quick clarification about the remaining guys. It's a few things, because you've found a solution for most people in the course that's been in relation to the municipalities. I also want confirmation that the remaining guys are going to be sold at the rate, as it has been all the way up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1498	Yes, the Storting has assumed that the fireworks will benefit the public, and that is what we use in the processes we have. On 4 January, the Ministry gave an overview of which fireworks were put out for sale and how the process is based on the individual lighters. In the case of Rogaland, Vibberodden is on disposal to the municipality of Eigersund, then with an extended deadline for replying to the county municipality. Egerøy has been sold to the municipality of Eigersund, and Obrestad is in a process handled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. Compared to the list presented, there is some guy in Northernland who has not yet been disposed of, and there is also one in Sogn and Fjordane and one in More and Romesdal. I expect that we will get clarification in terms of these, in the course of not too much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1509	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘In December 2005, the Russian authorities announced that import bans would be imposed on fresh Norwegian salmon from 1.1.06. The import ban is now in force. Also in the United States, strong warnings have been issued against eating Norwegian farmed salmon. Norwegian farmed salmon is now beginning to have a credibility problem internationally. So far, the government has chosen a passive stance to resolve the salmon case with Russia. When will the Government change its strategy and start working actively to find a solution in the increasing number of salmon conflicts with other countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1518	I want to start by stressing that from the Norwegian side, we have been working actively with the Russian authorities to find a solution to the problem. We give the work the highest priority, and we continually assess how the case can and should be handled, and will follow up with further policy contacts where appropriate. The Russian authorities have imposed an import ban on Norwegian farmed salmon on the basis of their own control measurements. The measurement results presented to us by the Russian authorities are in no way consistent with similar measurements carried out on the Norwegian side. Other importing countries have also not reported such findings from their import control systems. In the first place, we are working at a professional level to restore the trust of the Russian professional authorities in the Norwegian control system, and to demonstrate that there is reason to trust that Norwegian farmed fish satisfy all food safety and quality requirements. The Food Authority is responsible for this work from the Norwegian side. In order to strengthen dialogue and cooperation between the agencies, Russian veterinary authorities and experts have been invited to Norway as soon as possible for a joint Russian-Norwegian inspection of Norwegian seafood establishments and a joint review of the Norwegian Maritime Food Authority. The Russian celebration of New Year and orthodox Christmas was concluded on Monday 9 January. For this reason, we can expect a response in the matter from the Russian authorities only now. The first thing that happens now is that the matter will be the subject of a meeting between 12 and 13. The new Russian President of the bilateral Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission will be held by the Ministries of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Moscow in January. It is not that we believe this meeting alone will solve all the complications around the matter, but we will be able to get a glimpse of how far the process has come on the Russian side. Moreover, I have had a meeting with the Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture today to exchange experience and discuss further strategy. The FHL has supported the strategy and actions undertaken by the Government. With regard to the United States market and warnings against eating farmed salmon in the United States, the recent Norwegian media case has its origins in a recently published research article. The article comes from the same research group and with the same results as the disputed ‘Science’ case from January 2004. The method of assessing the health risks used by US researchers is highly controversial. In the past, both Norwegian and foreign food authorities, including the United States, have rejected this study and their methodology for assessing health risks. This article has been subsequently criticised by international organisations such as the WHO/FAO. Norwegian farmed salmon is safe and healthy food. The Norwegian control system for farmed fish is good and has great confidence in the markets. However, Norwegian salmon and trout meet hard international competition. I am convinced that we must always work actively and look for solutions based on the core challenges of each case. Every time a new case comes up, we work through an interaction between the political level, the relevant professional authorities and research environments, and not least the industry itself, to preserve the reputation of Norwegian salmon. I also believe, of course, that cooperation and contact at authority level and the exchange of knowledge and information on safe and healthy sea food between, among others. salmon-producing nations will help with what we're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1544	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I also thank the Council of State for her presence in the Chamber today. It's not every government council that bothers it. Actually, I had hoped that the Council of State would not be here today, but would have taken a trip to Russia to try to resolve the conflict that the farming industry is facing. I believe that the government here has been too passive. There's been a conflict that's been going on for almost two months, and now first you send a bureaucrat to try to find a solution. I notice that the Council of Ministers that travels to Russia has said that he thinks it's going to take a long time to find a solution. At the same time, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre says that he hopes for a quick solution. My question then is: when does the Minister for Fisheries expect a solution to this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1555	Work is very active and very hard on the part of the Norwegian authorities – it has been done from the first day – to resolve this matter, to get a quick solution to it. But there is no one at this point who can provide any guarantees as to when this case has been resolved. Of course, this is because these are two parties – that is the Norwegian side, and there is also a party on the Russian side. We have chosen to meet the Russian claims with professional documentation and a serious attitude to what they have come up with. I think that dialogue will help resolve the matter. It is important that we act in a way that helps to resolve the matter, not lock the situation, and that we take care of the important Norwegian export interests. I would like to stress once again that we have had a close dialogue with the industry in this matter and that we have always had their support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1562	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to refer to the headline in the newspaper Fisher today, where it says that those who work in salmon imports in Russia claim that the Government has acted clumsily in this matter. So here, obviously, there's different views in that way. From what the Council of State says about the handling of this matter, that there are the different ministerial councils and professional bodies in the area of the Minister of Fisheries, I would like to ask questions about who is dealing with this matter by the Government. Jonas Gahr Støre says he's going to Russia in the middle of February, and is waiting to find a solution then. At the same time, Jonas Gahr Støre has written in a letter to me before Christmas that it is the Minister of Fisheries who is handling this matter for the Government. Then my question is, is it the Minister for Fisheries who handles this, or is it the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1573	This matter is handled by the Minister for Fisheries, but of course in close dialogue with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Once we have put our strategy into this matter, it has happened in close interaction with the industry, and also based on the advice we received from our Embassy in Moscow. I believe that the professional approach will resolve this matter. There is also contact at department level. I have contacted my Russian colleague and asked him to engage personally in the matter. And we will continually assess further political enquiries, including: based on the response we receive from the Russian authorities in the meeting to be held in Moscow tomorrow and in a meeting between the Norwegian and Russian veterinary authorities on Friday. I finally allow myself to refer to Trond Davidsen, one of the directors of the FHL, who has commented on this matter in the Address Paper on 30 December last year. There he was asked how he deals with the criticism of the opposition politicians, and he says: ‘If the same politicians were in position, they would also think twice’.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1583	So we're done with case no. 1 on today's map. Since the President has reason to believe that there may be voting on case No. 2, Unit, he'll let it call in to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1603	The majority of the Presidency proposes that referendum case No. 109 were rejected, cf. point (e) of the third paragraph of Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure. President Thorbjørn Jagland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1608	When the majority of the Presidency considers that this proposal should not be dealt with under point (e) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure, it is not because we want to cut off a debate on foreign policy issues – we have that at regular intervals in the context of foreign policy presentations, the handling of communications, etc. The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy state that the Government is to discuss with the Grand Duchy before making important decisions on foreign policy, trade policy and security policy. In the light of such discussions, it is the responsibility of the Government to exercise foreign policy on behalf of Norway. The proposal that has been put forward has the character of being a resolution. The majority has no tradition of adopting resolutions, especially in the field of foreign policy. This is something that I myself, as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, have consistently stood for. The Labour Party also voted against such proposals several times in the previous period when we had a different government, because we thought it was a matter of being resolutions that would create problems and ambiguity for the then government. This has primarily to do with the role of the Storting. In the field of foreign policy, Stortinget has a very strong position compared to most other parliaments I know. This is because we have acted neatly in relation to any government that has exercised foreign policy. In the matter under consideration in the proposal, the Government has not notified any change in policy. On the contrary, it has emphatically stated that Norwegian Middle East policy is firm as it has been discussed with Stortinget. The examination of this proposal would therefore give a signal that this line is not fixed. The majority would agree to adopt something that is obvious, and we would thereby reduce our importance and role in foreign policy, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. If the government had given a signal that it had changed its policy without consulting the Stortinget, it would of course have been necessary to discuss the matter. As President, I will therefore adopt the same attitude towards this government that I, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, had towards the previous government, and I am pleased that a majority in the Presidency agrees with this. Since I know that for a long time there has been a different view of the role the Storting should have in this, I respect it completely, of course. But this has been my opinion for a very long time – in fact always as long as I have been in Stortinget – and that is still the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1621	The President would point out that the proposal is based on document No. The 8-proposal will not be taken during the debate, cf. Paragraph 28, third paragraph, point (e) of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1624	On behalf of the minority in the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, I would first like to propose that this Document No. The 8th proposal is dealt with according to point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, by providing transparency for the members of the thing for one day and then being recorded on the map for consideration, i.e. tomorrow. I would also like to make it known that, in a subsidiary way, the minority in the Presidency would also accept the wish of the proposers, who were presented at the presentation of the proposal earlier today, to send it to the committee. We are not addressing that proposal, because it did not bring together any subsidiary majority in the Presidency. But I think it's right to draw attention to it to the Storting, so you're aware that if parties had agreed to it, at least the minority in the Presidency would accept such a unified solution. The proposal is – I think – in line with many previous proposals, including in the field of foreign policy, which have been dealt with in a very ordinary way in the Stortinget. There have been proposals that have been sent to committee, and then there has been a debate in the Chamber. There have been proposals of the same nature which have been promoted in the context of debates following statements by foreign ministers. Thus, there is no firm practice, either in the field of foreign policy or in other areas, in order not to allow the Storting to deal with requests, also called instructions, to the government on what to base its policy on. There have been a number of debates over the years on the extent to which the Storing can and should adopt instructions and requests to the Government. There has also been a good deal of legal literature. For those who want to familiarise themselves with previous assessments, I can refer to documents from the Constitutional Office of the United Kingdom to the Presidency, which have gone through a wide range of examples and debates: documents of 8 November 1994, 31 January 1995, 24 November 1997, 24 April 1998, 21 April 1998 and 7 January 1998. The representatives who are interested in getting involved in what has been held in previous debates will be able to read them. There is something in particular about governments' prerogatives, especially in the field of foreign policy, which has been taken into account here. However, development has been that that doctrine has less and less consented as it has been a shift from the legal aspect of government and enlargement – that of accountability law, which is governed by the National Court Institute – to the more political treatment that is the parliamentary governance system, which is quite different from the legal state. More and more, then, it is the parliamentary management system that has taken over the legal system. Then it will always be up to Stortinget what you want to treat. There is just a distinction between what is decided in the Stortinget, which is legally binding on the government within the national court system; there are restrictions on what the Stortinget can and should take decisions when it is the government or a ministry that operates under a law under a given authority. However, when it is not legally binding, there are no obstacles in the parliamentary governance system for the Storting to adopt political instructions, parliamentary instructions, towards the government. There have been many such debates, and there have been some parties who have wanted the Storting not to very much adopt instructions and requests. It is quite right, as the President of the United Kingdom says, that the Labour Party has had a restrictive line in this area, relatively consistently. There have been two parties in recent times that have promoted many suggestions to instruct the government. It is the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party. That's why it's a little interesting what the Socialist Left now thinks after they've been in a different situation for the first time than they've been before. Finally, I would like to mention that when I go in order that as much as possible should be dealt with in plenary, it is also because we are to respect the right of the authors of the proposals, the representatives of the big ones, to have proposals dealt with. It is sad if there is now a sketch in Stortinget that makes parties who do not receive their proposals have to use the first paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the majority cannot prevent such treatment. That is why I appeal to the Storting to adopt the proposal of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1635	Then the President will suggest that we open a comment round, limited to one post per. group and up to 5 minutes speaking time. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1638	There are in particular two issues that become very clear to Stortingen when dealing with this matter. One is that now the Government and government parties use their majority to carry out a total demonstration of power. Of course, they have the right to do so, but so much so was the invitation to cooperate with the opposition – the liberalism to the opposition – worth, and for so long it lasted. The workers' party's long-standing arrogance of power is nothing new to the Storting. But the fact that it was so quickly infected on the Center Party and SV is quite alarming. It is a normal democratic attitude in this country that a minority should always have the right to try their views on voting. Yeah, it's actually not just a normal attitude, it's enshrined in the Constitution. The right of proposal is enshrined in the Constitution! There is no distinction between large-scale representatives and governments as to the right of proposal. It's one that's become very clear, namely the arrogance of power and a demonstration of power. The second thing that's become very clear throughout the day is that you're conducting a power demonstration to prevent a visualization of what a voting would actually lead to. That's what's actually the alarming thing. You just don't dare to let the employees' representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party vote in this case, because you don't know what the outcome is. As I said earlier today, it is probably so that the Government does not have a majority in its own parliamentary basis for this matter, but is totally dependent on the opposition to get a majority of the Government's views on boycott or non-boikot by Israel. I notice that the government parties now actively ensure that the government does not know the Stortinge's view in this matter. I have to say, I think it is especially when the prime minister says that dealing with such a proposal will create problems and ambiguities for the Government. To the extent that it would create problems and ambiguities for the Government, it would be because the vote was revealed internally in the government parties, internally in the parliamentary basis of the Government. We can't help but notice it. But what this reveals is how serious this matter is actually for the government parties. It is far more serious than the attempts of the Prime Minister in today’s spontaneous Question Time to completely dedramatise this. I can see that. In conclusion, I would just like to recommend to the Group of the Party of European Socialists that we support the minority proposal from the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1653	The previous article was the very confirmation of what has been said earlier today, that the proposal that was made today early has a certain impact of overplay. I would like to express my support for the vote by the majority of the Presidency on the procedure for this proposal. The proposal that the opposition has made is unnecessary, in my view, because today it is crystal clear what the Government believes in the issue of consumer boycott of Israel, and it is an area where accumulation and government are agreed, and there are no examples that the Government has announced new policies. It is commendable that the representative, Mr Hagen, has noticed that the Workers' Party has had a principle view and approach to such resolutions, in particular in the field of foreign policy. That's an attitude we still have. I would also like to emphasise that if the Storting is going to decide on and take decisions on these types of resolutions, it does not help to clarify, but to the opposite. It is then necessary to ask whether it will be the case in other areas of foreign policy where corruption and government actually agree – and where the Government has made policy clear to all the public at national and international level – that there is no policy in force until confirmation is reached by the Stortinget. I don't think we should bring that kind of uncertainty into foreign policy work. I find it hard to understand that the opposition parties, in particular the former government parties, want to introduce such a practice. It would be very surprising if that was their intention. At the latest today, the Prime Minister here in the Grand Chamber has made it very clear what is the government's view in the Middle East policy. I would strongly recommend that the Workers' Party vote in favour of the presidency's position, namely that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1670	When we went into this room instead, a big representative from the Workers' Party said a little smiling that it's fun to have a majority. That's what this is all about. This is that the Presidency is now being used to create a stronger conflict between majority and minority, and to create a new precedent in relation to what kind of things this big business is going to deal with, which is contrary to what government parties have tried to say, that they should be open, they should have a dialogue, they should listen, and they should not show arrogance of power. Pressed up in a corner, they show arrogance of power by instituting new practices and new precedents on which issues are to be addressed in the Stortinge. And it is particularly striking when representatives from the UK have wanted a debate in Stortinget – if we have read the media correctly – on these issues, that the possibility of having a debate at all is now being deprived of, for fear of this. I have tried to remember whether in my time at Stortinget – which has been 16 years old – there are similarities to issues where proposals that have been raised in this way have been rejected. At the beginning of my time, there were some issues that were rejected – there have not been any in recent years – and then you had a principleal view that you should not vote on the same theme several times in the same big session. So it's in today's legislation, but it's gone too far, because we've often voted on the same issues again in the future. It occurred that the fact that regulations were the responsibility of the Government, within the law. If the regulations and proposals were too detailed, there was a rejection. But I have never felt that a proposal has been rejected simply because one did not want to have a political debate on these matters. There is no further proposal, but it has not progressed in the form of a real vote in the Chamber, because, for example, it is possible to use it. a treatment has shown that you are behind it. What you're doing now is you're saying that the government parties can use their power to arbitrarily tell us that these things we don't want to deal with. Here the right of initiative of the minority has been removed. I am, in fact, very disappointed with this new precedent that the President, who is a person who normally and traditionally wants political debate, is now introducing. Back to a debate we've had a lot of, it's so that the challenge of minority governments is that they can be defeated in the Storting. The challenge of majority governments is that the majority can form the basis for power arrogance both towards the Storting and towards organisations and organisations and the general population, because it is so “good to have a majority”. And the pressure that now we see that that's what power is used for -- to reject a debate, reject an open handling of a case. What's happening now is that the power is running without any previous precedent. You create new precedents in these areas, and you do it because it's fun to have when we have a majority. I think what the government parties are doing now is doing more harm to the government than would have been the case if we had allowed an open debate and made visible the support for Israel's policy and Middle East policy that this proposal actually involves. It would provide support for the government's policy. It would do significantly less harm to the government parties than what the government parties are doing now, that is, just to let power down and make sure that it's fun to use the majority that you have to deprive others of the right of initiative, because that's the next proposal that the majority does not want to be dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1685	First of all, SV supports the majority of the Presidency in this matter. But let me stay in a couple of relationships. It's the first time SV is in government, in a coalition government, and most of the parties in this room, except the Advance Party, have been in government and know what it means. Sitting in coalition government means going through and discussing matters about a day and making compromises. There are independent parties who make elections and who are elected and who have different views on different issues. That's why a coalition government will always mean making compromises that the government is finally putting itself together. And then you rarely experience that there are people in the government who take this one's. It happened in the previous period, but it is quite exceptional. The SV Group fully supports the government also in the Middle East policy. We believe that the proposal promoted by the opposition – by the way, the four party leaders reminded us of Team Antonsen when they came marching through the hall yesterday – is actually to open doors. It has been made clear from the SV's point of view, both by our finance minister and by our big group, that we are fully committed to the government's Middle East policy. Therefore, we believe that the proposal is unnecessary, that it is to open doors, as I said. It was interesting to hear from Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg today, who I think answered very well in this matter as well. Stoltenberg pointed to the importance of allowing the various party organisations to exercise a living democracy, in addition to the government and the magnificence of national policies. There, I think, Stoltenberg pointed out something very important: it must not be such in a democratic society that we cannot allow the various party organisations and the different parties to front their primary positions and run their own campaigns and have their own views. It's always been, and it'll always be done in the future, too, I hope. Democracy needs parties to be allowed to engage in debates. Democracy needs parties to dare to raise some important societal issues. Democracy needs parties to be allowed to question whether society is moving in the right direction in different areas. That's why SV has been criticized for having a policy in a coalition government working with the other side, at all. It's actually pretty common in all of the games. It's been common, and I think that's also going to be common in the future. Democracy needs living parties that work, as well as government and big business that governs the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1697	I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to support the minority proposal of the Presidency. An overall opposition has promoted a proposal that fully endorses the Prime Minister's declared line of view on the boycott of Israel. We wanted to do this to show that even though the government parties are not united behind the Prime Minister in this matter, an overall opposition does so. Then it is alarming that the government parties use their majority in the Storting to cut off the opposition from at all to get their proposal dealt with. So you don't hesitate to vote on the proposal, but you refuse to accept it at all. In my view, this is an unwise demonstration of power. It is in its character undemocratic, and it runs counter to repeated statements by the Government that one wants a dialogue and cooperation and to listen to good input from the opposition. It doesn't promise well for the time being. It also does not promise well the statement we have just received from the SV parliamentary leader that government party campaigns against government policy should not become anything unique, but should be part of the agenda for the future. If this is the case in the field of foreign policy, the government parties face major challenges – majority or not majority. What happens, however, is that the Government misses the opportunity to send a very clear message that our Parliament is opposed to a boycott line in relation to the Middle East conflict. We are convinced that it would have served the cause of peace, and that is what our primary purpose in this proposal is. It is strange that a matter so much debated outside the main national political arena, by representatives who have seats in this Chamber, cannot be brought into this Chamber through a discussion of this proposal. Now the Prime Minister and the Government have announced that they will change the content of the policy and the form of the policy. At this point, we do not want to change the content of the policy. The opposition has wanted to highlight its support. But what we see is a change in the form of politics that is not very wise. It is possible to ride two horses. I've seen it on the circus. But it takes incredibly capable riders not to fall between the horses. The nature of the property has not been demonstrated by the representatives of the government parties in this matter. The power appears, but in this case it seems very unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1712	The central party's large-scale group will vote for the recommendation from the plurality of the Presidency on this matter. In our view, the proposal is totally unnecessary. The content of the proposal is an instruction to the Government to maintain a Middle East policy that has been clarified most recently by the Storting. It is from our point of view not an attempt to show, as Erna Solberg put it, that it is ‘good to have a majority’. There is also no fundamental clarification in relation to how Document No. Eight proposals will be dealt with, rather a demonstration of power or a violation of the opposition's co-operation invitation. We note that, as part of its founding, the proposers point out that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have determined what is the Government's policy. We don't want to contribute to a change in the relationship between government and growth in foreign policy. We therefore reject this kind of proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1721	It is only a few minutes since the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire in this Chamber said a unequivocal yes that it was his New Year's intention that the Stortinge in this new year should take part in the decisions – including the minority. I interpret it as meaning that he meant that the minority, the opposition, should be involved in the decisions of the majority government in a different way from what we saw the outlines of this autumn. If it is the case that this New Year's Eve only lasted a few minutes, I will, on behalf of the Left, regret it. I hope it doesn't. I don't think it's wise if it should be like this. The debate on the boycott of Israel and the Government's position has already ended, said the Prime Minister earlier today – understood that when, and in a price-effective way, he, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, put his foot down and made very clear what the Government's view is, the debate would have ended. I think that the opposition had respected very well, if we had not felt that it was just one of the majority government's own parties who chose to undermine it immediately with a party decision that they would continue to work against government policy in this area. That was not the end of the debate. As a result, it was announced that the debate would be renewed. That's what's the whole point -- that it was created such an uncertainty. With this, one of the government parties and also individual representatives of the prime minister and the foreign minister’s own party who announced that they had a different view, helped to continue the debate and created uncertainty about the government’s position and – I would also go as far as to say – did not take so little authority from the fact that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister put down their feet. It should have been that when they did, the majority of the government kept quite calm and respected it. It didn't happen. That is what created the basis for the opposition today to see the need for a real-life treatment in the Storting to clarify the opposition’s support for what is the government’s established view. We have come into the strange situation that we see the outlines of a majority government that is majority government only in domestic policy, but minority government is increasingly frequent in foreign policy. We also received today's announcement from the SV parliamentary leader that it is very good and should happen often. At any rate, it should be the government's starting point and its commitment to building a majority for its foreign policy also at the opposition's level in terms of how foreign policy is dealt with in the future. We had had the opportunity today to get a unanimous big deal in dealing with this matter. I am absolutely sure that the formal opposition in this process would have contributed to unanimous support for the Government's line. So if the government and the government parties could contribute to the same unanimous support, we are not going to be told. It is the great uncertainty that hangs on after this treatment. The Prime Minister said in an earlier speech today that this debate has ended, and then minorities, opposition and secure media should also remain too good to continue a debate that the Prime Minister has decided to conclude. One can say a lot about it. I am of the opinion that a Prime Minister in Norway should never have such power that he determines when a debate is to be concluded. It must live in democracy, regardless of the views of the Prime Minister or Government parties on how pleasant a debate might be. But we're in the situation that in a few seconds the majority will give me the last word in a debate that's been concluded the longest. I will ask the representatives of the Left to vote so that it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1736	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2, and we're going to voting. The President would suggest that there should be a vote between the presidency's position, that the proposal should not be taken during the debate, cf. point (e) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure and the proposal made by Mr Carl I. Hagen for the proposal to be dealt with under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-11.ana.ud2218e1749	Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
