ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e72	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Gunnar Halvorsen died on March 6th, just 60 years old. Gunnar Halvorsen was born on 24 July 1945 in Arendal. After training as an electroinstaller he operated his own company, and in 1973 he established an electrical business in the Åmli Centre. He also had an interest in the Defense at an early age, came early into Homeland Protection and trained as a Commander. He was the leader of the 1970–1979 shooter team, and in the period 1985–1994 he served as captain and district chief. Gunnar Halvorsen joined active politics as a youth and was a member of Åmli Municipal Board 1967–1983 and rapporteur from 1979. He was a member of the Aust-Agder County from 1975 to 1993. For many years he was the leader of Åmli Arbeiderparti and Vice-Chairman of the Aust-Agder Arbeiderparti. He was a representative of the Stortinget for two periods, from 1985 to 1993, before entering the Stortinget as a permanent representative. As a staging representative and politician, Gunnar Halvorsen was concerned about the defense's well-being. He was then also going to spend eight of his twelve years on the Stortinget precisely in the defense committee. This was a period of great change in NATO, of a new international terrorism and of great changes in defence. This would lead to difficult choices for the Defence Committee, and many communities and individuals experienced the process as painful. For Gunnar Halvorsen there was also a period of struggle for a popular defence and for the close things, which his glowing and expedient efforts to maintain military facilities in the South showed. He was an active participant in the Nordic Council and NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In 1994 he was a delegate to the UN General Assembly. Gunnar was a loyal member of his big group, but he was never afraid to say from when he disagreed. He had his own opinions, which did not always belong to the majority, or which were necessarily politically correct, as when, at the tame of his time at Stortinget, he would change the duty of protection, and as when he proposed a barrier of 4 pst. for a political party to enter the Stortinget. Not only great colleagues, but also many employees at Stortinget knew and experienced Gunnar Halvorsen as a good friend. He had a wide network of contacts, and he engaged himself as well in matters that happened at Stortinget, as in the community. He liked to discuss, it's on the Lion Hill, in an international context or – not least – at the collection site, the gas station, in the town of Åmli in East Agder. While Gunnar Halvorsen was busy as a representative at Stortinget, the wife Gjertrud and the son Dag were driving the store in Åmli. After he left Stortinget in 2005, he rejoiced to finally spend more time at home with the family and at the store. And for the past six months, it was often the smiling face of Gunnar's customers meeting behind the counter. Unfortunately, the time he got would be too short. We remember Gunnar Halvorsen and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e100	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e103	On behalf of the representative Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I will present Document No. 8-proposal for a derogation from the professional transport law for persons over 70 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e108	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e121	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a change in line — within the allocated speaking time — of up to five lines following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e130	The financial year 2004 is the first year in which the Riksrevision reports on both accounting audit and company control. The National Audit Office has revised the accounts for a total of 274 activities for the financial year 2004. Final audit letters have been issued with 23 replies. We in the committee have noticed that there are considerable variations between departments when it comes to the extent of deviations. The three departments have implemented and managed the budget for 2004 in full, without any comments from the Riksrevision. This applies to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. For some departments, the Riksrevision cannot confirm that the accounting is without significant errors and is missing. The Committee has noted that the comments are often related to the lack of accounting and weaknesses in internal control. The Committee is concerned that there are still problems in complying with procurement rules. The Committee has also noted and is concerned that there are identified weaknesses in the management of sub-departments by individual departments. This is particularly true of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which is responsible for the management of the Ministry of Food and Food and the Ministry of Children and Family Administration. There's reason to hope that there's a friction going on, and the committee expects that one at the next level can look forward to a contraction in these areas. So a little bit for company control. The National Audit Board's control of the government's ownership interests in companies, etc. has comprised the control of 43 incorporated limited liability companies, 36 incorporated limited liability companies, five regional health insurance companies, five central government agencies, six special law companies and 26 student partnerships. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Ministry of Transport and Education and the Ministry of Research. I would just like to refer to the Committee's comments under the chapter on the four departments when it comes to these comments from the National Audit Office. Otherwise, I refer to the Committee's comments and position, and I would suggest that the Storting should take a decision in line with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e143	Riksrevisions Document No. 1, the national accounts, are actually one of the most important documents the Stortinget has to deal with. Thus, the European Parliament is informed about the use of Community funds by the administration and whether adopted legislation has been complied with. In addition, the new year is that the control of the management of the state's interests in companies, etc. is incorporated in Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox During the examination of the 2004 national accounts, the Labour Party had the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Innovation, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. I will only concentrate on the first three in this article. The chapter on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs shows that several of the facts pointed to by the Riksrevision during the examination of the accounts of the State last year have still not been settled. This concerns the quality of the procedure for the payment of old-age and invalidity pensions, late payment interest due to late payments and a breach of procurement rules in Aetat. Although there appears to be evidence of improvement, it is disappointing that clear signals from both the Riksrevision and the Stortinget have not led to the correction of the identified deficiencies. With regard to the errors and deficiencies in Aeta's management of the day-to-day money in bankruptcy, I am pleased that the ministry seems to take this seriously, and the committee expects both the processing and accounting procedures to be satisfactory at the next crossroads. The Ministry of Renewal, or the Ministry of Modernisation, as it stated in the current accounting period, has received comments in the accounts for 2004. Deficiencies have been identified in the Møre and Romesdal Unit County regarding internal governance documents such as financial instructions, plans and routine descriptions. These are defects of such an elementary nature that they should not occur. The lack of an overview of the agreements applicable to the State part of the unit state indicates weaknesses in the experiment that should have consequences. The contribution management of the county office of Telemark is also of concern. I assume that the department will take care of the situation and follow closely the operations of the two counties. The National Audit Office’s presentation of matters in the Ministry of Children and the Family shows serious failure. It is serious when the National Audit Office asks questions about the Ministry's governance and procedures for realistic budgeting. Mistakes in the financial management, such as breach of the eligibility rules, exceedances and missing explanations, underpin the impression of a ministry with significant potential for improvement. A joint committee asks the National Audit Board to keep Stortinget informed about the further work to establish good practice. One of the Ministry’s problem children seems to be the children’s, youth and family situation. It is now important to stress that this agency did not start its activities until 2004, and therefore not all routines have been in place. However, it is serious when the National Audit Office cannot confirm that the financial statements do not contain material errors or deficiencies. Moreover, the fact that several of the arrangements do not comply with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting, that there are significant breaches of the applicable legislation, including the procurement rules, and that some of the arrangements are not acceptable on the basis of government financial management standards and standards shows failure to an extent that requires immediate response. It is also disappointing that Buffetat has entered into a lease under which the State undertakes to take over the property after 10 years at a price corresponding to the construction costs. This is clearly contrary to state legislation. The size has previously declined to a similar agreement under the same department in connection with the transfer of SIFO, and went in this connection to the unusual step of strengthening the Riksrevision's proposal for a decision. An overall committee assumes that conditions are corrected. Nor has the governance dialogue with the county councillors and the management of the operating and incentive grant – conditions that were also commented on in the 2003 accounts – been sufficiently followed up. However, the focus of the National Audit Service chapter on the Ministry of Children and Family is the Consumer Ombudsman. After several years of critical comments, the Ombudsman may refer to positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e162	I would like to comment on the comments of the National Audit Office in relation to the Food Authority. We have just had a longer debate here in Stortingen on the importance of the Food Safety Authority in relation to the bacteria that have penetrated consumers in Norway. That is why we know that the Food Authority is an important body, which must be in order. When we discussed the establishment of the Food Authority, there was agreement in Stortinget that we should have a new food supervision where we would gather the resources. At the time, there were probably several members of the nutrition committee who were at least sceptical about the pace of the establishment of the Food Safety Authority, because such a major change of functions was brought about at a very high rate. In retrospect, we can see that the pace was probably at its greatest, and the National Audit Office points out that there has been such a hurry that there are a number of issues that are critical of the Food Authority. Among other things, the figure is 470 million. It is considered that there is no evidence that the laws and regulations have been complied with, according to the standards applicable to that type of thing. That's a big anomaly. We also see a different side than the economic one, and that's whether you can get structures in place that make you operational. I think we have to learn from it in retrospect, that when you are going to have as big a change as you did for the Food Authority, you probably need to take a little better time, so that you avoid the economic side that is critical, and also avoid getting problems with getting good practice, among other things. in the case of employment and other matters referred to by the Riksrevision. There is no wish on my part to cross someone or nail someone on the wall in this matter, but it is a matter of learning from a process when you are going to carry out such processes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e173	The next speaker is Ivar Skulstad, who has a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e176	In my contribution, I will link the rapporteur-general's comments to the national accounts of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. In both cases there is unanimity in the Committee on the Comments. In the national accounts of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, there is much that deserves to be positively described. I would therefore like to point out in particular the critical arrangements underlying the accounts of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, and that these do not comply with the decisions and assumptions of the Enlargement. Financial control of government receipts is not sufficient despite being independent, private-law entities that are required to submit an audited statement of income and expenditure of the recipient. UDI depends on credibility and subordinated governance structures at all stages. It therefore appears very unnecessary and regrettable that these activities are self-burdened by the lack of basic control procedures in the areas referred to by the Committee, such as financial procedures, reimbursement, re-entry registration and non-subcontracting. The Committee assumes that greater attention is paid to these issues. For the Ministry of Education and Research, the National Audit Office has issued 46 audit letters without notice and five with comments, and there are comments on the government administration of the State's interests in student co-operation. In dealing with this state account and in some other cases, it is worrying and a little annoying that circumstances that have been pointed out up to several times in their own notes in the past repeat themselves year after year, as is the case for this account. In addition, attention must be paid to the significant failure of institutions surveyed in terms of target achievement and performance reporting. Moreover, it is critical that several of the accounts are of such quality that we do not know whether they contain significant errors and deficiencies. The Committee assumes that the Government is now making sure that the Ministry of Knowledge gives the most attention to the work of sound financial management. The ratio that has been revealed, for example: in the university and higher education sectors, and the manner in which the State Council has carried out the management of student cooperation in Hedmark shall not occur. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee looks forward to the follow-up of the National Audit Office by clarifying the distinction between funding and externally financed activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e189	The central party thinks there is reason to wonder that the Riksrevision has significant observations on the 2004 accounts of so many departments. Here's a clear improvement potential. I am a case spokesman for two departments, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. To the Ministry of Transport, I refer to the opinion of the Committee. We assume that the Ministry of Transport has all seen actions against both the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and Posten Norway AS. Then it is sad, but not directly unexpected, to note that the National Audit Office has more comments on the government’s interests in health care in 2004. This is particularly true of developments in mental health protection. In spite of the escalation plan, the number of daily places for adults is net reduced. The activity has increased for both children and adults according to the report, but waiting time has also increased for both of these groups. In fact, outpatient production has fallen for both children, young people and adults. None of the health professionals surveyed had met the requirement to reduce the waiting time for child and adolescent concerns to 10 days. Here we're talking about some of the most vulnerable. This applies to individuals where rapid response and appropriate follow-up are decisive. For the third consecutive year, the Riksrevision addresses its healthcare professionals’ infringements of the Public Procurement Code. In this area, there are also different attitudes and approaches in the different health care services. It may be claimed from former Bondevik II government members that the red-green government came to a covered table. Document No In fact, 1 shows that there is something to take on a dishwashing to use a everyday expression. So finally, just a few words to the National Audit Office's comments on the creation and control of the Food Authority. Questions are asked both in determining the salary of the 940 employees and in the way that you have carried out so-called large purchases. On Thursday 12 January, the nation had a notice of its accounting breakage in 2004. At that time, most of the members of the control committee had strong points of view. The representative Per-Kristian Foss said that he believed that the committee would specifically take the point of public procurement legislation into account, and he also believed that the department had sylt thin arguments for why there was no evidence for the wage fixing. The representative said that he would demand that the matter be followed up both from the Stortinget and from the Government's side. In connection with E. coli-saka, the search light is rich in the creation of the Food Authority and also the organisation. In addition, the Minister of Agriculture and Food has answered a number of questions from the Committee on the follow-up of the indications in this field, so we have to suggest that either is or will be organised. I share the opinion of the representative of Brørby that Document No. 1 is a very important document for Stortinget and for Storinget's follow-up to the Government. This is a document that will probably get a lot of attention from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e210	I want to first express that of course I take all of the Riksrevision's comments very seriously. I want to go through two of the areas affected, not least now the last of the representative Meltveit Kleppa. The first thing I want to mention is psychiatry. It is a high priority task for this Government to strengthen the supply of people with mental disorders. The Soria Moria declaration is also clear on this. There is no doubt that there are still quite major challenges to the follow-up of people with mental health problems in municipalities. The lack of follow-up in municipalities will often result in emergency hospitalisations and increased pressure on emergency departments in specialist health services. It is therefore essential to be able to demonstrate that the funds allocated by the Storing are used for the purpose. Of course. The Social and Health Directorate, which is responsible for the management of the grant together with the county councils, has now taken action to improve the procedures for the payment of funds to municipalities and to ensure that they are actually followed up. Patients with psychiatric disorders are one of several target groups for municipal health and care services. There are no separate accounts for the different target groups, nor do we want such special care. However, the reports from the municipalities show that luckily it is now moving in the right direction, taking into account the increase in appropriations through the escalation plan. But we're not on target. The government will follow up the escalation plan for mental health. The increase in activity in 2004 also appears to be reasonably good in line with the escalation plan for mental health. However, I have noticed that the National Audit Office points out that the cost growth in 2004 was higher in somatic health than in mental health protection. In 2005, the Ministry demanded that the growth of resources in psychiatry should be relatively large than in somatic health. Preliminary reports from 2005 indicate that regional health establishments have been able to meet this requirement. The same requirement has been made for 2006. I have asked regional health companies to ensure that emergency services work as they should. I have taken the initiative to set up a working group to assess a specific waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental health problems. This work shall be completed in June. Then I also want to say a few words about the criticism that has been raised against regional health companies. The National Audit Office, as is known, commented on a number of aspects of regional health enterprises in the company review for 2004. I would like to comment here on the most important. I have become aware that in the autumn of 2004, the Ministry of Health paid great attention to the compliance of health businesses with the legal framework in general and the public procurement legislation in particular, both in meetings and in letters. Since then, this has been followed up in ownership requirements for regional health enterprises, both for 2005 and 2006. Specific requirements have been laid down for the internal control system in health establishments and requirements have been imposed for the establishment of internal audits to be based on risk and materiality assessments in regional health establishments and in underlying health business groups. I expect these measures, which have been implemented after the 2004 findings, to be effective and that subsequent monitoring by the National Audit Office will show a better result. I have also noticed that the National Audit Office has comments on beekeeping among employees of health companies. I believe it is absolutely essential that the confidence of the population in health professionals should not be weakened by the fact that employees have forms of ancillary work that may raise doubts about the integrity and independence of individual employees. The regional health establishments have been subjected to the beehives of their employees and have restricted the possibility of beekeeping at the time of the conclusion of new employment contracts. In business meetings in January of this year, I have followed up on this by assuming that regional health companies are developing continuous guidelines for the beekeeping of employees. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that several regional health entities had finance leases at the end of 2004. I have requested in the business meetings this year that existing leases of a financial nature be brought into line with the guidelines – which should be quite obvious – and that agreements taken over from the county council be concluded as soon as the contracts open.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e233	It is an important and demanding task to ensure that vulnerable children and young people receive good offers when they experience a lack of care. It is therefore very important that both state and municipal child protection be able to solve these problems. The Committee has criticised the Child and Family Administration of the Ministry of Children, Youth and the Family. The national audit cannot confirm that the accounts for Buftat do not contain material errors or deficiencies. Like the Committee, I consider this to be very serious. Following a unanimous decision in the United Kingdom in February 2003, child protection and family protection were transferred from the county municipality to the state on 1 January 2004. The State assumed responsibility for, and all the obligations of, this activity. All agreements concluded by the county councils were continued. After a short planning process, a whole new organisation was created. The activities of 18 different county municipalities were to be integrated into a common unit of common procedures, systems and culture, based on legislation and legislation on State activities. These procedures and systems were to be designed and documented. It has been a time- and resource-intensive process to establish a new business facing major challenges. The National Audit Office has shown some understanding of this in its opinion, and I can see from the opinion that the Committee has also noticed that Bufetat was being set up during the period in question. I would like to stress that it was particularly important during the start-up phase to ensure professional operation, so that children's protection and other users were given good and necessary offers. The comments of the Riksrevision do not indicate that professionally incorrect priorities have been made in the department. Neither have others criticised Buffetat for not caring for users in a good way. As I assess the situation, in a demanding start-up phase, it is clear to do the professional work. However, the national audit has revealed such errors in financial management and control that entry problems cannot be explained. It is clear that the department's financial management of the department has not been satisfactory, and I also fully agree with the Committee that it is necessary to take action to ensure better financial management by the department. The National Audit Office points out several clear breaches of the rules, and the Committee assumes that this will be resolved as soon as possible. I would like to conclude by saying that I agree with the criticism, and can confirm that the concrete breaches of the rules to which it refers have been settled, and that the Government is doing its utmost to control the situation in which the establishment has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e250	I do not want to go into details in the vote, but make some general comments in the extension of the debate so far. Firstly, I agree with the chairman of the Committee as well as the representative of Brørby in the meaning of Document No. 1 as a central document for Storting's control of the management and follow-up of previous observations on financial management and follow-up of the Storting's budgetary decision. In this respect, I would like to point out that it is very important that the statements made by the government in relation to the follow-up to criticism made by the Riksrevisionen and the Stortinget are systematically followed up. I believe that the departments as bodies should assess whether they have the necessary resources and organisation to ensure that such follow-up takes place. The Departments are mainly political secretariats and not control and management bodies in their character, although they have a very clear responsibility in this way. In particular, with regard to departments with large underlying establishments, it is essential to follow up systematically on this type of criticism and comments, partly of a serious nature, so that close and good follow-up is possible. In this context, I believe that more use should be made of controller functions and internal audits to do that kind of tasks on behalf of management. Otherwise, let me say that it is also good for the Riksrevision to follow its own path and follow up previous cases, so that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to follow up on how the promises given about follow-up by the councils, which we have got some clear and clear examples of here today, are actually being complied with. In this connection, I must say that I was somewhat surprised by the small political visit that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa had to the former government parties. I believe it is important that the Storting, across government constellations, is able to take criticism and follow up criticism for which there is a factual basis. In this setting, the Christian People's Party has participated in criticism of its own government on many important points. We stand for that, and we believe that it has to do with trust in the control function and the work of the National Audit Office. But I must say that I am looking forward to the next report from the National Audit Office and to the next examination of Document No. 1, because I understand the statement from the representative Meltveit Kleppa that then there will be no more dishes again, then the report will be clean, because we have got a new government. I think I'd be a little careful to create that kind of expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e262	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e278	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e287	Every year, the Storting will be sent to you by the Government of St.meld. No 4, which is an explanation of how the Government has followed up the call and announcement decisions that the Storting has made in a session. St.meld. No 4 for 2005–06 is about decisions taken by the Storting in the 2004–2005 session. The number of such decisions has decreased slightly in the last two sessions. This is a development that is in line with Stortinget's wish that emerged during the management of Document No. 14 for 2002-2003, a report to the Stortinget from the selection that has extended its control function, the Frøiland Selection. The selection raised concerns about the scope of the call for proposals and pointed out several adverse aspects of the widespread use of the Storting's instructional image as a tool. The Committee has noted that no decision was taken at the last grubbing-up session. The Committee is of the opinion that the system of a single notification on how the Government has followed up the call and distribution decisions is a good one. What's the challenge is that it becomes clear and transparent. Our impression is that the Government emphasises that the Storting will always receive a clear and clear feedback on how the cases are followed up. I dare however claim that a person does not always know it so that the feedback is as clear. The Committee would therefore point out that it is particularly important that information on what has been done with individual decisions should appear in the message and that it should not be necessary for one to search other documents in order to obtain all relevant information, as it would have been necessary to do in relation to some of the decisions taken in the 2004-2005 session. The Committee is pleased that the response to the call for proposals under discussion in the budget proposal is concentrated in the majority of the technical proposals. Not all departments follow this and the committee will request that there be a rule for all departments of the future. The Committee is also pleased with the follow-up that the Government has made in those cases where a target has not been fully achieved, which has taken a little longer than initially foreseen, and which one has said that one will return. It may not be necessary, but a good thing can't be said too often – I want to quote what the Inns Committee said. S. No 142 for 2003-2004: ‘Respect for the decision of the Storting is a necessary prerequisite for the legitimacy of our democratic system. If, for any reason, a decision cannot be taken, the Government shall return to the Storting without undue delay.» The last message is an example of the fact that the size of the message is made relatively long after a decision has been taken, and only through this message will it be made aware that decisions have not been implemented. The committee did not think it was good enough, and we have suggested that one should return to the Storting much faster than the case so far, when one sees that decisions cannot be implemented. The settings and comments have been almost co-ordinated, with a few exceptions. For the Progress Party, I would like to point out that we are not entirely satisfied with the follow-up to one health and care decision, four before justice and one before each of the areas of municipal, agricultural and education. It's often nuances, and it's hard to say how to handle a message from a government that's gone off, and grab a few things, so I don't want to go into it that much. I'm just a little surprised that there's some appeal decisions that aren't completely, but partially met, and will ask the question, who has a problem then? Is it the Storting, or is it the Government? Formal, it might be tempting to say, it's the government's problem, but really, I'm probably afraid, it's the Storting that might have a problem. By not implementing decisions taken in Stortinget, one might weaken confidence in Stortinget and make it appear to be a resolution defence. Is that what we're looking at in retrospect? Finally, I would just like to say that the Committee's comments are broadly in agreement, and I recommend that the Stortinget take a decision in consultation with the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e312	The Christian People's Party will show that the number of petition decisions has fallen slightly in the last two sessions. It is in line with Stortinget’s wish as, among other things, was expressed in connection with the examination of Document No. 14 for 2002-2003 - suspension of the Frøiland Committee. Despite the decline, the number of request decisions remained high in the 2004–2005 review. There are several unfortunate aspects of excessive use of the right to instruct. It may lead to unclear responsibilities between accumulation and government, and it may reduce the ability of the State Council to control and discharge its responsibilities. In addition, limiting the ability of the Storting to instruct on particularly important matters could contribute to the perception of such decisions as being more burdensome and significant. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will continue to stress that future greatness, including this, should be withheld from promoting too many proposals for request decisions. Having said that, it is a fact that, in the current parliamentary situation, where the parties of government are also the majority in the Grand Duchy, the number of petition decisions is likely to be further reduced. The number of request decisions in the first half of the year of this period also confirms such a forecast. From a democratic point of view, it is possible that the pendulum could swing too far the other way. Although the Government has a majority in the Grand Duchy, it makes sense to remember that the opposition represents a large part of the Norwegian people – in the number of votes, in fact, a majority in the last elections. The limited power of influence of the opposition through request decisions and other forms of instruction of the Government may be compensated to some extent if the Government takes the opposition on board, listens to good reports and seeks broad solutions in the Storting where it is at its disposal. The Prime Minister also said in connection with accession that it would be the Government's intention. My assessment is that with a certain degree of justice it can be argued that it has largely been with the good intentions – with one important exception, which I have given the Government credit for earlier: the inter-political efforts to improve the quality of care services, to which it is now submitted following the initiative taken by the Christian People's Party in January. It is a good example of how the interaction between the opposition on the Storting and the Government can work for the benefit of people in matters where it is important to know what is policy over a longer period of time than a single enlargement. In any case, from my own experience, I would assume that the trend towards fewer request decisions is one which both the politicians in the departments and the civil service will welcome. A government would like to spend time and effort promoting its own business for Stortinget. I expect that also applies to today's government, even though the eagerness to promote your own affairs has not so far appeared to be very urgent. But that could change. Once a decision has been taken by the Storting as the country's top body, the Government is obliged to implement it. It is the result of our democratic system. If, for any reason, a decision is not enforceable, it is the government's duty to return quickly to the Storting case. Sometimes it may be felt by Stortinget that it takes a long time before a decision is implemented. I will admit that even in the meantime, as a member of the government, I often wanted the proceedings to go faster. However, the fact that the implementation of a decision takes time cannot be interpreted as an attempt by the Government to train or delay the case. The Government is required to implement a decision on a roll-out, but the Government also has an obligation to assess how a decision can best be implemented — if the Storting has not provided precise instructions on how. The government also has an obligation to explain the economic and administrative consequences. For example, decisions requiring legislative changes require general consultation, and the Government must ensure that the matter is adequately informed. In the case of regulations, the Administrative Act also lays down specific requirements for the preparation of cases. So implementation will sometimes take time, and it can't be automatically interpreted as an obstruction. A clear communication between magnification and government is important in the democratic process. In particular, two interventions have been useful in recent years to improve government-to-growth communication in the follow-up to request decisions. Firstly, the system of a separate wholesale message has proved to be appropriate. Still, there is room for improvement. It has to be, for example: it is not necessary to search other documents to find out how a decision has been followed up. Secondly, the Government has led a line in which most departments have brought together the requested decisions under consideration at one specific point in the budget proposals. It should be followed up by all departments. In this way, they are separately squeezed out in the trade propositions. It represents a clear improvement, and from the Christian People's Party we would encourage this line to be followed up in the further work of all the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e329	Let me also start by saying that making sure that Storting's decision is followed up and implemented is a central part of Storting's control of government and administration. People have to be able to trust that what is adopted in the Biggest is put to life. It is actually a supporter of the parliamentary system. Over the last 20 years, we have seen a rather sharp increase in the number of requests. In the 1980s, there was a maximum of four a year, while in recent years, up to now, well over 100 and, in fact, 200 such decisions have been promoted per year. years. So the period of minority governments has speeded up the production of request decisions. Now, when we're back to a situation with a majority government, there's reason to believe that next year's St.meld. No 4 becomes the syllable. There will be a development that I think is positive, and I will come back to it later in the post. The large number of request decisions is the main reason why, as of the 1999-2000 enlargement session, own notifications have been prepared of the follow-up to or follow-up to the relevant decisions. It has proved to be a good and transparent arrangement. The verification work shall not and should not be an unbridled investigation. The Committee's work on the request decisions has been carried out in close liaison with the professional committees by asking them to comment on the follow-up of the Government in their fields. The system of a separate notification of follow-up has provided the Stortinget with an important instrument for monitoring the results of individual decisions, while at the same time making the Government and the departments aware of their responsibility for follow-up. This year's edition of St.meld. No 4 shows that the follow-up of the Government and the form of feedback have clearly improved. For example, most departments have now introduced their own chapters in the budget documents, explaining how the request decisions have been followed. It gives a good overview and facilitates the control work – also for those outside this house who will follow the fate of this type of decision. But, as the committee refers to, there is still something missing. Like the rapporteur, I would like to point out the feedback to the Stortinget regarding decisions the Government does not intend to implement. They often come at random and often at a very late time. Therefore, a unanimous committee emphasises the government's obligation to inform the Storting without undue delay in such cases and is assumed to be followed up. Similarly, in many cases, it is still a sin when the Stortinget asks for its own case in its decision to make a request. Not infrequently, this results in some brief comments in a budget proposal or similar. The respect for the Storting decision should ensure that the Government in such cases contacts the Storting before this form is chosen. The Committee has asked questions in the follow-up to 18 request decisions during the examination of the notification. No 4 for 2005-2006. These are distributed in many areas – and with the Ministry of Justice at the top, with seven comments. I do not find any reason to comment on the individual decisions, but I would like to stress the importance of the Government continuing the work on developing good feedback procedures. As others have mentioned, the examination of the investigation into the control work of the Stortinge warned against the developments observed, with an increasing use of request decisions. The reason for the warning was that such decisions have been partly detailed, not always as clear and sometimes withdrawn from their natural context. The size is suitable for much, but in relation to the investigative work that may be useful – to put it mildly – before decision is taken, this house is not always the most suitable place to carry it out. Such decisions may also help to alter the responsibilities of the government and thus limit the possibility of the Storting to control and responsible government and government councils at a later stage. It is of course a paradox that the Storting itself finds it necessary to warn against a development that the Storting itself is the source of, and can only do something about itself, but it is a confirmation that even here in the house it happens that nature goes beyond resentment. It may also appear to be a paradox that no decision has been taken in the last few years, as the rapporteur pointed out. It is an instrument that is better in both constitutional work-sharing and sound procedural procedures, as it clarifies the consequences before committing oneself to detailed solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e362	The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee confirms that there was good reason to express the concerns expressed by the Frøiland Committee in due course for the development of the communication between collapse and government in relation to the request decisions. The reason for this is that the Storting's control function is complicated – in some cases it is quite complicated – when the Storing does not meet the Government in the door, but meets itself in the door and, if necessary, has to conclude that a decision that was given to the majority in this hall was really unfounded, or poorly justified. The basic principle of the Norwegian constitution, as in most other countries’ constitutions, is that the liability between the legislative and the granting of state power and the executive State power should be as clearly defined as possible. At the moment of the Greatness, the temptation to instruct the Government, more or less clearly, in individual matters, disturbs this role-play. In the last growing period, we had a case where the Storting could in theory have created a majority behind a decision that would have instructed the Government to carry out something that would in retrospect have led the Storing to assert national responsibility to the Government. And then you have to ask, who really is responsible in that case? Is it the majority of the population that has instructed the Government, or is it the government that may reluctantly carry out what a majority of the population has imposed on it? Actually, our constitution presupposes that the exercise of power in the relationship between magnification and government should take place in such a way that if the government is absolutely unable to take responsibility for doing something that the Storting is about to adopt, the government should ask cabinet questions about it. Then you get to know what Stortinget really means – and think sufficiently strongly. I would say that it is desirable for our entire parliamentary system to return – I would say – to the rules of principle. I will not go into individual matters in the setting that exists. But it turns out that it may be difficult for the Storting to agree on the interpretation of the Storting itself, i.e. what order you have actually placed. Therefore, there is also later disagreement here in the hall as to whether the Government has fulfilled its obligation, or has not fulfilled its obligation. This is a little decent form of communication. But the reason why it still has this way is that it is not clear whether the initiative to change this way of communicating between big business and government should come from the Government or from the Stortinge. It is possible that the representative Hansen is entitled to experience, with a majority government, that the use of request decisions will more or less fall away by itself. There's still to be seen during the period we're in. But at least I believe that there is reason for the Storting to go into a certain self-criticism and some self-test as to whether it is appropriate to do it this way. In those cases where there is a real majority in the Storting that is of a completely different opinion than the Government is in the case of a case complex, it should be expressed in an open and real power struggle, instead of covering it through more or less diffuse orders, which you then get more or less diffuse responses to afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e391	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e407	The proposal of the Landfill Representatives Ulf Leirstein and Gjermund Hagesetter is about increasing the import quotas for alcohol, tobacco, etc. I would rather say that we are talking about baits when it comes to border trade. So what we're talking about today is a political lure of dimensions. What the Progress Party is now proposing is that each of us can bring pallets from Sweden. It's actually about so large a quantity that each of us can start a store on the corner for the resale of alcohol. And I have to say that the proposal is a great estimate of Norwegian alcohol policy, which, in the light of history, has proved to be perhaps the most successful alcohol policy in the European context. The proposal we are dealing with here is an estimate of exactly that, and I am pleased that it is a large majority who reject the proposals of the Progress Party. It is also the case that the Progress Party suggests that the customs tariff should be helped to ensure that large fish are taken in terms of the smuggling of alcohol and drugs. There's no basis for saying that. We have obtained documentation from Sweden, which on the contrary points to the fact that after Sweden introduced the new quotas, which are probably at about the level the Progress Party wants, the smuggling has increased. I would also like to mention what the head of customs in the region of East has said, namely that it is important to take these who smuggle wine, spirits and tobacco, precisely because it reveals great courier activities, which it is absolutely necessary to catch the big fish. There's no contradiction between what's today's system and the priorities that Customs is making, even though I see that some people are trying to create a contrast between what's the priorities of Customs and what's the actual reality. I am deeply concerned about the consequences of this proposal if it were to be adopted, not least as regards the relationship with children and young people. We know today that about 200,000 children are afraid when Saturday night comes. They do so because their parents do not handle alcohol in a manner that is sound. We know, and it is undisputed, that increased access to alcohol and lower prices also lead to increased use and increased abuse. These are the facts The Progress Party, unfortunately, totally overlooks – and I would say they ignore it with the knowledge and the will. And here the Progress Party can in no way show one single research result that would indicate that the situation is different. I would also like to remind the Progress Party that there are countries that deeply regret the release of quotas that have been implemented. It is enough to mention Finland and Estonia, where statistics on family violence simply show the meaning of the release. I had hoped that it also had some effect when the Advance Party discusses alcohol policy. As I said, I am pleased that there is a large majority of people who stick to the main features of Norwegian alcohol policy, as it emerges from the comments. Then there are two minority proposals here. One is, as mentioned, from the Progress Party, of course, and then there is also a minority proposal from the Right and the Left to make changes in order to gain greater flexibility within today's total volume of alcohol in terms of the quota. I have noticed that the government parties in a note provide – what to say – conditional support for this proposal. It's a little unclear to me – I have to be so free to say it – and I don't know how to interpret this comment, but if the government parties or the finance minister can contribute to it during the debate, I'm satisfied, and then we'll see what the final proposal might lead to. But for us, it is essential that we have had a successful alcohol policy in this country. I am pleased that the majority insists that we should continue to have and strive for this, and that we reject the kind of populist proposal – and that must be allowed to say – that the Progress Party has made here, and that unfortunately – unfortunately, I repeat it – will lead to increased abuse, increased alcohol damage and increased harm to children and young people. Not least, this will lead to a release that also opens up, I think, a large black sale of alcohol, with the quotas that mean pallet transfers from Sweden to Norway, which the proposal involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e428	There is a reason why many of us in this country are adherents to a strict alcohol and tobacco policy. I think the rapporteur took up some of the points in an excellent way. I can add one. It is – as we also write in the vote – that the World Health Organisation counts alcohol as one of the most important single causes of early death and ill health in Europe. This is – as the setting also says – the background for a strict regime in Norway in terms of alcohol and import quotas. Nevertheless, I believe that in some way one must always have an eye on how to practice strict legislation on alcohol and where the import quota is part of it. It is also necessary to look at what can help to increase legitimacy in order to have a strict regime in Norway in the area of alcohol. I think it's absolutely crucial, because we're dependent on having legitimacy for this in the population. This is why, in some way, we should always look at proposals that can lead to an increase in the legitimacy of this in the population. Therefore, the majority of this case asks that ‘the government in its further work assesses the appropriateness of a moderate adjustment’ of, inter alia, the following: the import quotas, in order to adapt them to the physical units in trade to a greater extent, possibly. As I said, this is a silent request. It's not the Stortinge that makes regulations. It is the Government through the Ministry of Finance that does. We trust that this will be handled in a good way. I see that today's newspapers speculate wildly about what kind of system or what kind of quota system we're going to get. I'm not going to contribute to the speculation – except to say that this is what we will come back to, this is what the Government will come back to. It is, as I said, the Government through the Ministry of Finance that is going to deal with this. The finance minister might say something about what you think in that context. On the proposals of the Progress Party, I have not intended to say so much, except that I record that the number of us has been called pallet sales of alcohol – which was also mentioned by the case rapporteur – from abroad and to Norway, with a quota of 1 litre of spirits, 2 litres of wine and unlimited with beer and – the favourite of some of us – snuggling. The Progress Party does not propose the type of system within the EU. More is proposed what is called a third country into the EU system. Then it must be allowed to ask: why stop at the proposal that has been made per year. current date? Why don't you go in favour of, to an even greater extent, some kind of EU quota – which, in my view, would be quite dramatic? I hope that the reason why the Progress Party does not is that they still have an alcohol policy conscience, and that they still have some sympathy with Norwegian brewing industry. Because it would have dramatic consequences for both areas if you had gone even further than what you do per. the date of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e448	When we can change the use of the pulpit in Stortinget, we should also be able to adjust slightly in terms of the import quotas for alcohol. I understand that I have an opinion that I share with the representative Micaelsen. It is rare to hear a representative be as clear about what he thinks, but wrap it up in such wretched wording as is available in writing today. Firstly, I would like to express the agreement of the government parties with parts of the opposition that we should have a restrictive alcohol policy. It is a good slogan, this ‘to rule in a big way and to let go in a little bit’. When the government parties in this position rejected a proposal by asking the Government to consider ‘if a moderate adjustment is appropriate to increase the legitimacy of a strict alcohol regime in Norway’, many of us wondered very much about what it was like. We have – as I understand it – an unauthorized interpretation in today’s VG, and we have a personal opinion from the representative Mikalsen in today’s debate. Can the Micasen give some stronger assurance that the Government, with what may come, will come back within the framework of a restrictive alcohol policy — and trust citizens a little more?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e459	I understand that the representative Sponheim is busy in a way to fire up a little bit of what speculations have been in today's newspapers, and what has been said in the storeroom. I just want to repeat what I said in my main post, that this is the Government's table. We've written a comment that in a nice way suggests what we could imagine. More specific than that, I do not intend to be, except that I believe that we must always have an eye on what measures we can take to increase the legitimacy of a strict alcohol regime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e466	For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that you have to stand against the replicator and the answer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e469	This is almost as confusing as what the government parties actually think about the import quotas. Let me say that the Right is very pleased with the signals that have come through the VG. Like the Left, it's more flexible with respect to the import quotas, but it's going to be very wrong when the representative Micaelsen says that this is the Government's table. It's still the Stortinge that rules in this country. And that's not pure speculation, what VG says today. There are actually sources in the Workers' Party that have expressed what these allowances are actually to be increased to. My question is: Does the Workers' Party mean that more flexibility is needed to replace a bottle of spirits with more bottles of wine, or is it such that you might mean – perhaps not, and that this really gets Mrs. Halvorsen to decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e478	The working party believes that we should assess several types of action on this issue. Some of the measures taken by the representative Sanner may be concerned, but other types of measures may also be involved. We haven't concluded there. That is why we have expressed ourselves and written in the way we have done in this matter. We have full confidence that the Government will come back with changes or measures that may be of a good nature — if one can formulate itself that way. Then I register that the representative Sanner and the right in opposition, having been in government position for four years, has now become very concerned about having greater flexibility in importing quotas in Norway. They did strictly nothing in the four years they sat in government. It may be that you have a good ally in the Christian People's Party, which then held back strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e485	First of all, it must be allowed to say that when a representative from the Workers' Party says that the Christian People's Party had influence within the previous government, one should really listen, because that was not exactly what was the message largely – it was rather that it was a right-wing government, etc. So thank you for that! Since there have been a bit of pressure from other parties to know what adjustments the Labour Party might think of going into, I can imagine pushing a little bit more, but then from a slightly different edge. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Micaelsen, whether he can assure the Storting that the adjustments to be made, if any, are to be made in the context we agree on, namely that we still need a restrictive alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e495	Yes, I can confirm that that will be the case, as the representative of the Christian People's Party is concerned about, because that is what is the background. There has always been the background of the Workers' Party to what to do in alcohol policy in Norway. It's about having a strict regime, because we know that it works. It works much more in Norway, which has a restrictive alcohol policy than in other countries with which we can compare. So the answer to that question is an unconditional yes. Then I'd like to add that there may well be some people who think that the Christian People's Party had little influence in some areas in the previous period, but in the alcohol policy one had a safe and leaning hand on the wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e506	Let me nuance that picture a little bit, because it was actually so that we came up with good compromises. We got to what the Workers' Party has never done, namely a reduction in the taxes on alcohol. We got a reduction in the taxes on spirits by 20 p.m., and a reduction in the taxes on beer and wine by some percent. In addition, we were introduced tax-free sales on arrival, which I know many value highly. Let me go back to the main question. The representative, Mikalsen, says that they want to consider different proposals. But what does the Workers' Party want? If the so-called sources of VG today are correct, the working party wants more flexibility, so that you can bring more wine instead of taking one bottle of spirits.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e513	First, I want to congratulate the Right that they got through a reduction of 25 pst. in the alcohol levy in the previous period. That's right, but that was also the only thing. And it was in many ways in a funny light if you read the summer newspapers several years in a row, where the Right was high on the track, and suggested much greater relief in the alcohol charges than you ever got in the government – but leave it alone. I'm not going to say anything other than what I said in my previous answers, namely that we are going to consider different measures. What the Workers' Party means is something we're going to come back to. As I said, we have full confidence that this is going to be handled in a good way in the future. But I underline, as I have said before: it is important to look for opportunities to increase the legitimacy of a strict alcohol regime in Norway, and then you have to have many thoughts in your head at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e520	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e523	The background to this proposal is inter alia: that we have recently had a dramatic development in the smuggling of beer and wine in particular. Syringe smuggling has not increased this much. We've actually had a completely different development there. That is what we believe, among other things. is related to a reduction in the alcohol charge in the previous period, which we have not received when it comes to beer and wine. The reason we've got this extra smuggling is because we have a dramatically higher level of charges in Norway than in our neighbouring country. In addition to that, we have a system of allowances that is not in line with the universal perception of justice. If one today draws to Sweden and buys a 3-litre carton of wine and nothing else and crosses the border without tolling the wine, it will be a violation of Norwegian law. I don't think that a lot of people in Norway think of it as a big crime, but today it's illegal. This has also been a matter of interest to the Customs Directorate. The Customs Union is also responsible for adjusting the quotas, for increasing them. One also pointed out that a large proportion of the resources of the Customs Directorate today allow to control so-called small smugglers, who may have one litre or two too much. When a person spends a lot of time controlling them as well as printing leaflets, the result is that one gets fewer resources left to spend on the big smugglers and those who smuggle drugs and far more serious things than this is about. That's why we're in charge of increasing the quotas. In our alternative state budget, we have also insisted that we want a gradual reduction in the alcohol charge, so that it should not be profitable – as it is today – to buy alcohol in our neighbouring country and take it to Norway. The representative Syversen said there's nothing to suggest that this won't have dramatic consequences, or to say it in another way: this would have dramatic consequences for public health, etc. It's hard for me to believe. We can also look at research results and statistics from neighbouring countries to Sweden, where it turns out that a large part of those who live there, trade in Sweden, at Swedish prices. Nevertheless, there is no evidence that there is more alcohol-related disease, more alcohol-related problems, than in other parts of the country. On the contrary, it's a little less of that than in other parts of the country. There is also less violence there than in the rest of the country, despite the fact that in practice they have Swedish prices and buy much alcohol for their consumption at Swedish prices. It also indicates that Finland and Estonia are frightful to repent because they have introduced EU quotas and reduced the alcohol charge. Of the last numbers I saw, it turns out that correctly there has been a slight increase in the translation of alcohol, but the increase has not been greater now than before, until they did this grip. And if the Seven have the right to repent so terribly, they are always free to increase the alcohol charge again and do something about the quotas. But we haven't seen anything that the political forces are trying to reverse anything that's been done, so I don't know who Syversen is talking to, when he claims they're undoing. At least I haven't seen them want to change this proposal. We have realised that there are no multiples in this room to get EU quotas, internal EU quotas. That is why, in our proposal, we have set up EU quotas from third countries. The Minister of Finance has stated that they are similar to the Norwegian quota, and when something is similar to the Norwegian quota, it should not be a big problem to introduce it either. The duty-free quota to third countries from the EU is 1 litre of spirit or 2 litres of intermediate class product, 2 litres of wine and unlimited beer, which according to the Minister of Finance is approximately equal to the Norwegian quota. That's what we're proposing, and we would have hoped that more people could have supported it. At least we're happy that there seemed to be a plurality in this room to make it more flexible when it comes to what kind of distribution you're going to have between spirits, wine and beer. That's what we think is good. We've seen look up in VG. This suggests that the Government and Government Party can at times be absolutely capable of thinking reasonable thoughts. And that's good. This is in line with what the Left has also proposed and to which we will give our subsidiary support. But at least we in the Progress Party are happy that there seems to be something positive about us promoting this proposal, namely that a process is being started that will result in much greater flexibility when it comes to the quota system and what kind of mix between alcohol, wine and beer is taking in Norway. It's positive. Finally, I would like to re-examine the proposals of the Progress Party and also report subsidiary support for the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e544	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e547	The important thing in this debate is to establish that Norwegian alcohol taxes are too high. The Norwegian alcohol levy weakens the legitimacy of the entire Norwegian alcohol policy and results in more negative consequences as a result of the sky-high Norwegian taxes. Using the example of the previous government, which lowered the alcohol tax by about 25 p.m., led to a period when the smuggling of beer and wine dramatically increased, that the smuggling of alcohol actually went down. This means that the level of charges in Norway strongly influences the overall level of smuggling and border trade into Norway. So, at least this one time, it is actually worth listening to the Secretary of State of the Minister of Finance, Geir Axelsen, who in Political Quarter on 10 January this year said the following: ‘It is very important that Customs can concentrate on the most important tasks, namely the fight against drug trafficking and other illegal activities.’ It goes both on the Norwegian quotas and at the Norwegian level. If you want to do something, for example: In the fight against drugs, strengthening Customs and focusing on the most important way of doing so at Customs is a way of doing so. I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to interpret his own Secretary of State as to what he really meant, because I interpret him to the point that he wants to do something both with the quotas and with the fees, as the Customs and Customs Union themselves wants. So the left and the right agree on a proposal in the setting that is going to get more flexibility in terms of the quotas. It's a good first step on the road, where you go away from today's favorite liquor and over to a more flexible system, which actually gives people a real choice when they stand on the border and want to take alcohol into Norway. This proposal has also been said by the Progress Party that they now want to support subsidiaryly, and I hope that today's government parties also see that this is a good first step. Not many people have spoken about the European Union. The right also stands alone for a comment and, in the form of a comment, shows that the Right is the only clear yes party that wants Norwegian EU membership as quickly as possible. That is right, because in this debate it is clear that, as an EU member, we will in the long term have the same allowances that the EU has within the EU system, which is – to list: 10 litres of spirit 20 litres of intermediate products 90 litres of wine, of which no more than 60 litres of sparkling wine, for those interested in it 110 litres of beer Of course, they have to be picked up within the EU system. This will also result in pressure on the Norwegian fees, of course. By doing so, we believe in the Right that we want to get the fees down, and if you have got the fees down, you also get the smuggling down and the border trade down. Then, in relation to some of the things that have been said so far about unlimited quantities of beer as a result of the EU quotas, it must be said that this is not true. This is not the case; one will actually have to deal with a total of alcoholic beverages that can be admitted to the EU or to a country related to EU legislation. Several of the debaters here have been concerned with what was done by the previous government. The previous government was on the way when it came to alcohol taxes, where unfortunately only small adjustments were made to wine and beer, but a rather significant reduction in taxes on alcohol was made. It led, as I said earlier, to a decline in the smuggling of alcohol. At the same time, the representative, Sanner, said that we actually got tax-free on arrival. There was something almost all the parties turned out to be for, but it was the previous government that got it up. They changed the quotas for meat and cheese by raising the quotas that were on these. It should also be included. The quotas on sugar products were removed. There was a very strange paragraph. It showed that you got quite a lot. You were on your way. Directly reprinted to the representative Mikalsen, you can ask the question: what was the Workers' Party's previous assignment? Well, when you did something with alcohol, all you did was get the fees. The working party has a track record of 100 pst. consistent. It was only up the fees went on. I have little faith that the Workers' Party can do anything but follow the tradition that actually stands for. In the end, I could make a small recommendation to the representative, Mr Micaelsen, to perhaps make his statement here with a few words, rather than with as much wool as it was in it. It goes both on the VG lookup and on the notes in which the Workers' Party is involved here, because here it is said very little that is short and nuanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e591	First, let me say that the Left has supported and supported the main lines of the tobacco and alcohol policy that Norway has pursued over many years, including what many claim is a high level of alcohol and tobacco fees. That, I think, must be at the bottom of a debate like this, which is about a cautious increase in flexibility and an embellishment. Such a policy is also prepared to continue, on the grounds that we have clear targets to reduce diseases such as: is caused by tobacco use and drug abuse, thereby releasing significant resources in the healthcare system currently linked to the treatment of these diseases. But as has been said so many times in this debate: should such restrictive policies have legitimacy in the population – let us translate it into being understood and accepted that are not unreasonable – there is reason to see whether there are individual elements that work against their purpose and that can soften. An example of this could be what was launched by the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Left Party, Inge Ryan, a week ago, to allow a limited sale of wine and spirits in shops in District Norway. Another option is to do as in Sweden – that the local population can order wine or spirits at the local store and pick them up at the same place after a day or two. For the stores that have Post in Store today, it actually works like this already, as we can all order drinks from the Vinmonopolet via the Internet or telephone and get the goods sent by mail. Last year, 440,000 litres were distributed via this scheme. The left does not support the proposal of representatives of Leirstein and Hageseter to increase the import quotas for alcohol and tobacco. But we want a system that gives citizens greater freedom within the same framework as we have today. Today’s legislation appears to be illogical and, in reality, favours alcohol with a high alcoholic strength, i.e. spirits, at the expense of beer and wine. Therefore, the left considers that, within the current total volume percentage of the import quotas, a larger room should be provided to replace spirits with the corresponding amount of alcohol or beer. Such flexibility will, for example: could make it possible to take three litres of extra wine at the expense of one litre of spirits and the corresponding ratios between beer and wine/ spirits. In our opinion, this will not lead to increased alcohol consumption, but to greater flexibility and increased freedom of choice, and perhaps even less small-scale smuggling. Let me also add that this is probably a scheme that has been made more practical for the individual after it has become possible to bring the allowances with you after you have landed on the plane, and you do not have to carry it with you into tight planes. I must then express some disappointment that this proposal by the Right and the Left, with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, will not be accepted. I had actually assumed that there were some also in the government parties who could without further ado join this; in any case, the debate today has shown that there are representatives in the Workers' Party who could join this without further delay. Instead, we have been given this somewhat cryptic wording, which emerged clearly in the change of lines after the intervention of the representative, Micaelsen, but as I see it, perhaps – as I see it – it has become somewhat clearer through today's media, with strong calls to his own finance minister that something must happen in this area. It makes the height of the drop at least very large if we now pass through this spring without any flexibility or decoration coming into place here. The government made it a slogan by its formation that this was a government that would act and not negotiate. I guess we've seen a lot of the opposite: it's a government that negotiates, but it may not act very quickly. It's enough that the Government and the government parties within their ranks have positions to break up. I have a fundamental fear that the most conservative of these will try to perpetuate the state of things, as it has been today. I remember – as the representative from the Right said just before me here today – that when the previous government, in order to increase the legitimacy of quotas on meat and cheese, these increased somewhat, it was a central party ramaskrik about what drama it would be like for Norwegian agriculture: Norwegian farmers would be about lying around if the quotas for meat and cheese were increased a few kilos. It was a purely conservative, reactionary reflection. We've seen in retrospect that it definitely hasn't happened. But it has increased understanding somewhat for the necessity that there are some rules in these areas. I think that is also what will happen when and if the Government had to make sense and go in favour of the proposal that the Right and Left are promoting today. I am in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e615	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e618	The quotas for imports are one of the determining factors for a restrictive alcohol policy, which is what the large majority in this country is for us to carry out. There is one thing that makes us in this country have significantly lower social costs related to alcohol than they do in other countries, including health costs, consequences of violence, etc. I notice that when the Advance Party talks about this – about alcohol taxes and import quotas – it is not exactly their focus, to say it very simply. It is clear that the Progress Party does not take a particularly inward look at the fact that, as we are doing here in the country, it actually has some positive aspects that the Progress Party is willing to throw at the boat. We in SV are in order to keep such a bowl, and therefore we reject the proposal that the Advance Party is promoting, which in reality means free flow of beer. Norway as a society doesn't make us do that. There may be reasons to change some elements, and that's why we in the majority are in favour of this being something that the Government is going to consider and look at. But it is clear that we need to change the quotas as they are, or the organisation of them and the whole system of the tax-free system together with the quota system as it is, there is something we need to do in close dialogue with all the organisations working in the field, and in close dialogue with the state bodies involved in investigating and critical monitoring the situation. This is precisely what needs to be done to ensure that the policy pursued — a policy pursued in the extension of possible changes — will have the same impact on alcohol consumption in Norway, namely that we maintain the restrictive alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e629	The representative Holmås is very focused on the so-called negative effects of alcohol. It's clear that if it's abused, most of it causes negative effects and health damage. It does not only apply to alcohol, it also applies to food, etc. The point is that alcohol is a legal product – it has been for hundreds of years in Norway. As long as grown-up people are new to him, there are, in fact, very many positive effects of alcohol. He's a contact maker. In many outdoors, it is quite natural that alcohol is also consumed. One also has research findings that suggest that some health damage is reduced by alcohol, including alcohol. heart attack, etc. My question to the representative Holmås is: When one focuses on the negative effects, is it not also right to focus on the positive effects of alcohol use?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e636	You could say that. I must admit that I still see positive effects in my own life through the use of alcohol on various festive occasions. It is a bit fascinating that the so-called law and order party, the Progress Party, lasts just a hundred meters from the country's most violent street, namely the Rosenkrantz Gate. If they had been here at Stortinget one late Saturday night and looked over the street, they would see to those degrees the negative effects playing out to the full. I have never complained that the Progress Party has been too little concerned with the positive effects of alcohol, but I dare say that they have not been particularly concerned with the negative ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e643	If possible, the government parties' attitude to this question has been even more blurred after the representative Holmås's posts than it was before. A batch that has never been afraid to take a clear position on most of the questions, now obviously has no point of view on whether to soften these quotas a little bit. To be honest, we're talking about replacing a bottle of spirits with – is it – three – four bottles of red or white wine, and SV obviously has no point of view as to whether this is reasonable or not. The representative Holmås says that there may be reasons for this, but that they will not mean anything, for here is Mrs. Halvorsen who is going to decide, and here we are going to consult all sorts of imaginable organizations. SV is not to recognize, when you don't even have the ability to take a clear position on this. Let me try: What does the representative Holmås and SV mean – do you want more flexibility, or do you not want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e650	I noticed that the representative Jan Tore Sanner, who now claims that I was extremely fuzzy, was unable to find out if there were three or four bottles of wine to be allowed to enter instead of the brandy bottle. In that, perhaps Jan Tore Sanner illustrates a little bit of the point in relation to this, that if we are to change some of the quota arrangements, it is important for us in SV to make sure that we maintain a restrictive alcohol policy. It's clear that we have to look at this, but my point in my post was to say that we should make changes to what's actually the most important bobbin we have to prevent the free flow of alcohol into, it's important that we do it carefully and in cooperation with the people who have the most bearing on this. It's the organisations that work on the issues, and the directorates that have an overview of what goes under the consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e655	I am of the opinion that if this question had now been left alone to the Council of State Halvorsen, it would have become a greater flexibility and embellishment of this. I think the process so far has shown that this requires good support players, not least from their own party. That is why I became somewhat skeptical now, when I heard the representative Holmås post. My question is about the good, sensible initiatives that his parliamentary leader has taken here in the Chamber and in the public debate over the last few years, about making it a little more accessible to legally buy alcohol, either through Post in Store or directly in local shops that have a small selection of the wine monopoly that can present. I think it is a commendable initiative by an honest and genuine district representative, who is Inge Ryan. Is there a view shared by the representative Holmås from the capital? And: Can the representative help to distribute the few, but noble drops across the whole people legally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e664	There will be more and more of these noble drops, but I fully agree with Inge Ryan. For years I have heard him a bit too minipol at more internal party meetings than perhaps Lars Sponheim has been allowed to attend. I think it's something that it's absolutely worth the government looking at, just to make sure that a lawful spread of alcohol can replace the illicit production of alcohol. That's what we've seen in the extension of the alcohol smuggling cases that have been, where deaths and so on. in this context, it has just resulted in a fall in alcohol smuggling. I believe that smuggling today is not a major problem, but if the proposal of the Progress Party had been adopted, I think the development would have been as seen in several other countries, namely that it had been smuggling large amounts of beer. I am sceptical about that, and that is why I am in favour of voting down the proposals of the Progress Party. But I think Sponheim's initiative in this matter has been constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e671	My claim is that if the representative Holmås here had been in opposition, he would have clearly had clear opinions. It is rare to hear the representative Holmås as mist as he is right today. Let me make it terribly short and concise, so that you might get a clear answer: Does the representative Holmås think that replacing one bottle of spirits with four bottles of wine or a three-litre carton of cardboard wine is less restrictive than today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e678	We'll evaluate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e683	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e686	Let me just take a too many unpleasant starting points for this discussion that can't be explained by anyone, and that's that the more available alcohol is, whether you get it bought on each street corner or in the form of a lower price, the more society consumes in total. And the bigger the alcohol consumption, the greater is the abuse. These are very simple contexts, and that must be the starting point for this debate. Of course, it is true that alcohol is a legal commodity, but we have had this balance in limiting consumption, with availability, wine monopoly, limited tax-free quotas and a price that is relatively high in Norway, and in that way we have been able to have less problems with alcohol abuse in Norway than very many other countries have. That is the starting point for this government's alcohol policy. There are also other arguments in this case, and it is that for most people, alcohol is not just about the highest percentage possible for the lowest number of bottles, but that there is culture, tradition and local production related to alcohol that is also worth taking care of. In other contexts, for example, it's called for local enterprise policy. Then I have to say that the most eye-catching thing about this document no. The 8 proposal and the proposals that are being put forward here today are, of course, the fact that the Progress Party has traveled around the country and the beach and said that they will propose to Norway, namely to introduce the internal rules in EU countries – 10 litres of alcohol, 90 litres of wine and very heavy beer – they do not. The Progress Party has a small puzzle proposal, namely to introduce the same rules for duty-free sales as between the EU's external borders and third countries, not what is internal between EU countries. Everyone can notice that there seems to have become a bit of audacity to that discussion. The facts in this case are that the tax-free allowances are determined by the Ministry of Finance by a regulation. I have now listened carefully to the debate and heard what assignment I have received. It states that the majority of the financial committee, i.e. The Working Party, SV and the Centre Party, ‘notes that today’s import quota is not adapted to the physical units sold and that this may lead to a reduced understanding of the quota rules’. The majority therefore ask that ‘in their further work the Government assesses the appropriateness of a moderate adjustment to increase the legitimacy of a strict alcohol regime in Norway’. I'll do that. I will go through the possible reasonable and moderate adjustments that are needed, in order to find out that there must be certain limits, which must be understandable and legitimate. That's the second important balance sheet we're going to have on this issue. So I have listened to the debate with interest, and I take with me the views that have come here. And then the answer comes at the moment that I might suggest changing the regulation. But there's not going to be any release in terms of being able to absorb significantly larger tax-free quotas, because we just want to have this balance, to have a restrictive alcohol policy, but which is understanding and legitimacy around. Then I have a few comments on the debate, because it is this balance that has been SV's policy constantly. If one accuses the representative Holmås of SV of being ‘wrong’ in this case because one weighs different considerations, I have to say that it must be the first time one listens when the SV explains its alcohol policy, and what is a broad disintegration in the Government in terms of alcohol policy. It is simply so that there are different considerations that need to be weighed out. It's that simple! And since the representative Holmås is a young and reflected man in these questions, I think some and each of the other representatives should listen carefully after he speaks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e707	I listen to the Minister of Finance when she, among other things, the old reasoning was that improved availability and lower prices would lead to more consumption and that the higher the consumption, the greater the abuse, and that this would also lead to more damage. I have never seen any evidence of that. As I pointed out, in the border counties, where one in practice buys a very large amount of alcohol at Swedish prices, one has not received those results. Now I am being confronted with the fact that it is not the EU's internal quotas for the Progress Party. It worked like the Minister of Finance was a little disappointed about it, because it indicates that we only have a little puzzle proposal. And as she has also said, a proposal that is largely in line with the Norwegian quotas today. My question then is: if there is only one 'little puzzle proposal', should there not be any problem for the Minister of Finance and for the Government Party to support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e716	First of all, I think that the Progress Party should focus on what is available worldwide in terms of research into alcohol and alcohol damage. It shows a clear context, and that's exactly what I said -- it could be research from the World Health Organisation or from anywhere -- that the higher the consumption, the more the abuse, and the greater the damage. It is therefore a goal to keep a reasonable, moderate total consumption of alcohol, mainly because the alcohol problems — the medical problems of alcohol abuse, but also violence and other types of rash — are an unpleasant truth that cannot be overlooked. So I just notice that the Progress Party is taking a very strong step in the public debate. But it is not a dramatic proposal that lies here, although I will not declare today that I support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e723	Today’s page 12 of the VG has received a lot of attention. It says, among other things: the Minister of Finance ‘internal’ has agreed to assess, at least, an increase in the duty-free quotas for wine in the State budget for the autumn. My question to the Council of State is: if you do this 'internally', why don't you do it in the Stortinget? Does VG actually have a basis for writing what they're doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e730	I've been very clear so externally, by speaking from Stortingen's pulpit, that I'm going to evaluate this assignment, as the majority of people want. I'll do that. This is not a proposal that needs to be submitted to the Stortinget, either in the revised national budget or in the State budget. This is a possible change to a regulation that the Ministry of Finance of the Minister of Finance is free to promote if she thinks it is interesting, so the representative doesn't have to make any secrecy out of it. I say this loudly and clearly: I want to assess the mission that the bulk of the population gives me, and then come back to it when I have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e737	I should praise the Minister of Finance when I have reason to do so, and I think she made a very good contribution. I'm a little in doubt when she talks about it being worth caring for the local food production of alcohol, about how local she thinks it is. I expect that what she wants to take care of is not about what is happening in garages and basements. The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen had a limitless trust, I say, in how the Council of State would follow up the request she receives from the majority. And then I thought I'd turn around a little bit about the question and say that when the Council of State knows the Christian People's Party's alcohol policy, does she think the Christian People's Party has as good a reason as Torgeir Micaelsen to have unlimited confidence in the work she is now going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e746	First, a clarification: when I talk about ‘local production’, I don’t think about different forms of illegal activity, but I think, for example, about ‘local production’. in the production of beer by local breweries, which have long traditions in different parts of Norway. With great possibilities for the introduction of beer from the outside one can very quickly imagine that pallet imports of Heinecken, Tuborg or whatever it might be, would make the production of the Lundeang or Aass – yes, I do not need to go any further in detail here towards a representative of the Christian People's Party. So to the question, I think that the Christian People's Party has the same challenge as any other party that sees this relationship between the total consumption of alcohol and the abuse and the problems of alcohol. It is a question of finding a limit on the lawful placing on the market of a legal product that does not unnecessarily provoke or lead to smuggling on the one hand, but for which it is also accepted and which provides some views on the use of alcohol supported by the population. It's this balance sheet I expect that the Christian People's Party will also be pleased that we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e753	I am reassured by the finance minister's knowledge of the smaller industrial producers of legal, good beer in Norway. I would also like to express that I have noted a great commitment to culture, tradition and local production. This I could have spent more than a line of time on, but I just want to say that here are the small adjustments that can trigger a lot of exciting around that should not threaten Norwegian sobering policy, but that can contribute to sensible solutions. I did not succeed in getting all this through in the previous government, but I would like to send it in a letter to the Minister of Finance, with good suggestions that she can make if she sees that there is a basis for it. I also share the views on the importance of a balance sheet, not least in terms of smuggling, of which we know there has been a great deal, which has probably made sense with the adjustments made to the taxation of alcohol. My question concerns the timing of these assessments. I understand that the left's calculation, which is the basis of a proposal here, will be recalculated in the Ministry of Finance. But how long will it take before these assessments, which the Minister of Finance has promised today, are made?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e762	Firstly, I would like to say that if the representative Lars Sponheim wants to send me a letter, I accept it. And of course, we also accept reasonable input, views or requests from others in the opposition in this case. I'd like to tip off the fact that there is a broad majority in Stortinget that is really behind what is Norwegian alcohol policy, and what we're talking about here is possible adjustments. I haven't set a deadline for when this assessment is to be completed, but I don't think all the world's time is needed. I should be able to conclude before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e769	The last figures from the Customs Directorate show that smuggling is increasing dramatically, especially beer and wine, not so much alcohol. I think that's related to the fact that we have a tax reduction here. Many also indicate that crime has been organised behind a lot of this smuggling, and it also means that the distribution of this contraband wine and beer takes place completely without control. This is something that the Progress Parties are concerned about, and so we have a call for a reduction in the prices of alcohol and an increase in quotas, which is something that the Customs Directorate and the Customs Union agree to be a contribution to stopping this smuggling. My question is: Is the Minister of Finance concerned about this increase when it comes to smuggling? And if she is, what will she do to limit/stop that development, that increase, that we've seen lately?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e776	It is true, as the representative says, that the smuggler image has changed lately, unless the smuggling of alcohol – it is probably related to deaths related to smuggling alcohol, as has been seen – but with increased smuggling of wine and beer. There is a constant balance between nationally determined alcohol policies and not just automatically importing what is the level of taxation or the level of prices in other countries. At the same time, you have to make sure that you don't make yourself feel that it's extremely profitable in smuggling. It's a balance sheet that's a challenge for any government. But I do not think the Progress Party has found the answer to where this balance should be. I believe that the dramatic reduction in taxes on alcohol imposed by the Advance Party leads to one thing, and there is more harm from alcohol use — more abuse and more violence. So I want to say that the Customs Department does not focus on small-scale smuggling. The Customs Society is concentrating on the big bad guys.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e785	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e803	This proposal concerns the taxation of non-residential or recreational property. The proposal as promoted is that valuation shall not exceed 30 pst. of the technical value of the property or observable market value. To put it simply, the majority reject this proposal. I'll go into the problem and explain why we're doing it. There are today three different types of property taxing. One is inheritance tax — there is a separate type of tax based on the market price — the other is property tax in the case of local property tax, and the third tax form is the Equation Tax in the case of property tax, previously also in the case of the benefit tax on the residence of the owner, currently only linked to the property tax. So on several occasions, you've tried to do something about this, you've tried to coordinate the tax and find fair tax systems, but so far, the Storting has, we can say, failed in that work. There are several things that it is important to highlight when it comes to taxing property. It's that there's a big difference here that makes there's a need to do something about this. It is grossly unreasonable that two dwellings with the same market value, within Oslo's borders, end up having completely different tax bases. It is usually dependent on whether the dwelling is new or old, it depends on the size of the dwelling – compared to whether you end up having an equal share of the value of the equation, which ends up being the tax on which you pay taxes on wealth. This is something that needs to be done with. This year, the government, by a majority in the UK, has increased the rate of valuation, but the ceiling of 30 pst has been retained. in the case of housing. It's because we have a tradition here in the country to say that housing is in a special position. We want people to invest money in their own homes. We know that social benefits are linked to better housing provision when you own your own dwelling rather than renting – it's just looking at maintenance costs for housing. We see clear differences in relation to the dwelling you own, and the dwelling that goes for rental purposes. Therefore, there are good reasons to have this 30 p.m. limit on owner-occupied housing, but we do not have this 30 p.m. limit today for non-residential or recreational properties. Nor is there any good reason to make it cheaper for investors to invest in commercial property than to invest in other property. There are no such good reasons, except that there will be support for the nuclear electors of Oslo Right – and those of the nuclear electors are the fewer and fewer of them. Very many property owners in Oslo would see this as a tax bonus. There's no good reason for that. I think it's funny that the Right is promoting such a proposal. Thus, it is not that investing in commercial real estate, for example, in the capital, is more high than investing in other types of securities, in companies – in different ways – or doing something else with this money. There is simply no reasonable reason why owning shares is more expensive than investing the same money in commercial property. We see in the majority, and therefore we also stress in our remarks, that there are differences in the cases where property investment appears to be a purely capital position with favourable taxation, as it is today, and the cases where properties of a certain type or size form the basis for the performance of a long-term industrial activity. This is what we take with us when we continually assess the taxation system and the basis for the assessment of the annual tax returns. But we are not, however, prepared to support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which sets the limit of the Equation Tariff to 30 pst. on the real estate of agricultural and forestry land. We cannot overlook the consequences of it, and it is not necessarily that the proposal reaches the right balance which is necessary in relation to what is reasonable/unfair taxation of that type of property. In short, the vote summarises the views of the majority and the government parties. We do not understand why the Right promotes its proposal – we do not support it, nor do the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e827	Once again, SV and the left-hand side talk about a fairer tariff system. This has been done in Stortinget by repeated treatment of housing taxes. Can the rapporteur confirm or deny that the purpose of a fairer tariff system is to implement what is stated in the SV's batch programme, that there is a need for higher taxation of housing and property?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e832	No, I can't confirm it. I can confirm that what we want to do is to continue this government's policy of providing a fairer tax system. A fairer tax system means that those who have the most contribute more to the community than they do today, and that those who have the least contribute less than what they do today. There's no doubt that after four years of right-wing rule, we see very clearly that one of the things that's biased here in the country is wealth. And what the Right proposal is promoting today, which is going to be rejected – that those with the largest commercial properties will also receive an additional tax deduction by setting a ceiling of 30 pst. – does not at least contribute to a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e837	The representative Holmås mentions that there was no real reason that property should have a lower asset value in relation to its sales value than that of the axle. That's interesting to hear, because axes have 80 pst. of real value, while property has at the base of 30 pst. usually, and also significantly lower than that. My question is: If the representative Holmås and the government party want similarity between axes and property, is it axes that will then get a lower asset value/equity value relative to real value, or is it property that will get a dramatic increase in the value of the equation/equity value relative to real value?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e844	We will return to the taxation of wealth in the context of each year's budget. That's almost right what the representative here says: Unlisted shares today have 80 pst., and that's probably how listed shares have 100 pst. – they are thus determined in an equational manner at the nominal value. This also applies when you have money in the bank, which good pensioners have. If we're going to continue an arrangement where pensioners are going to be taxed harder to have money in the bank than investors to have money invested in property, I think it's a little funny version of the Promist Party's pronounced policy, at least. So making sure a fairer tax system is going to be doing what we've done this year, increasing the equation value of real estate and increasing the bottom subtraction in the same sling. In this way, we create a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e849	The representative Holmås went very easily past the arguments in relation to the opposition's proposal today, which goes on at least to maintain an equation determination for agricultural properties on the same line as residential properties. The representative spent a lot of time arguing for other aspects of this proposal. But the whole opposition will subsidiaryly support the proposal, and it has a particular reason: these are properties that in most cases are residential property as much as they are commercial property. The ability to sell and speculate in this, as one can with dwellings in a city, is limited, and one has in many ways regulated housing, etc. So there are strong arguments for this. I do not know if I should use the opportunity to congratulate the representative Holmås for having succeeded in getting the Central Party to join in this proposal to tax agriculture to such a significant extent, but this I think the representative must have the opportunity to argue something more for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e856	So Sponheim's arguments in this context have been taken into account. There are arguments which are absolutely valid, and which must follow in a further discussion about the determination of wealth and the fixing of the Equation Tariff in relation to both agricultural and forest properties, which, as the representative rightly says, in many cases also have a character of housing. That's why the majority say that you want to "emphasize that the valuation of other real estate does not have to contribute to an unreasonable burden on business," and we see that this is among the things we have to include in our ongoing assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e861	In response to my first line, I got an extract of what had to be one of Heikki Holmås’ Valtals, about what he thinks about rich people in general and especially the Right. What is my question is this: Is the so-called fair taxing to be used to increase the tax on ordinary peoples – and I specify ordinary peoples – houses and homes, dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e871	The answer to that is no. What's the matter here is that we're trying to get a fairer tax on housing and other property. Some of the things we've done, therefore, are that we have increased the appreciation rate in relation to the equation rate -- as we've done for example this year -- to make sure that it's equal to all types of homes so that it shouldn't be a completely arbitrary set equation rate depending on when things are built and depending on the size and the otherwise, while we've kept the ceiling of 30 pst. and at the same time increased the base subtraction. All of this contributes to our objective, namely to ensure that those who have the most, those who have the largest residential property, etc., are those who contribute more proportionately to the community, and that those who have the usual housing receive greater deductions from which they are to benefit, thus contributing at least proportionately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e877	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e880	The progress party wants a lower level of taxes and charges. It also applies to the taxes on wealth. And of course, the kind of equation value that a property has will have something to say for the property tax. As the case-speaker also pointed out, today there is a very wide disparity when it relates to how high the value of the equation is in relation to real value in different parts of the country, including within the same area. Some properties have an equation value that might be 10-20 pst. of real value, while other real estates have an equation value that is many times higher than that relative to real value. This is an unreality and an injustice that the Progress Party wants to end. That is why we also have a programme conference and a call for this to be corrected by removing taxes on wealth. Then one will also avoid tax investments that a mere person does to reduce the wealth tax. If one had removed the property tax, one would not have had that effect. One would also have dropped a fairly large bureaucracy to assess the individual ownership issues, as is the case today. We find that we don't have multiples for that, at least not for the next three and a half years. Therefore, it is important for us both to reduce the inequalities as Document No. The 8 takes up, and at the same time reduces the taxes on wealth. What we mean by is that we also saw a 30 pst roof. for property other than private dwellings and cabins. I note that the case-speaker also believes that one should reduce these inequalities – that the red-green will reduce these inequalities. They may say so, but I'm quite overconfident that this reduction in inequality also means that the wealth tax and the tax will increase. I feel that I'm very unhappy. The property tax is a special Norse tax. It's the pensioner who pays a large part of this, by the way, 50 pst. Of course, when an increase in the rate of fixed ownership by 25 pst, as one now did in the state budget, it will also go beyond the pension list — and perhaps increase the pensioner part, which is now 50 pst. of the taxes on wealth, even higher — even if one has the 30 pst ceiling. We thought it was a shame that one did not follow the suggestion of the minority here and put a roof. It would have done this much more fairly – without any increase in the wealth tax. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, and also to announce subsidiary support for the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e893	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e896	Every single time the Storting debates taxes on people's homes and real estate, there's an uncertainty about what the left-hand side really wants. You get the impression that the Norwegian people are a collection of housing speculators to be taxed harder, but you never get to know how this is to be done. I think the occasion today would have been good to clarify it. We have not received any such preparation. On several occasions, not least in the treatment of the tax reform by the Storting, the three government parties have said that taxes on people's homes should be seen in the context of property taxes, followed by a mantra – which we have already discussed today – on a more fair system. That's not the problem. It is that homes are taxed at all, which is the problem – this is called a stable tax foundation. The former tax spokesman of the Labour Party Tore Nordtun went a long way in the tax debate in the revised budget last year saying that this should be taxed because it could not be moved. We believe that this is an unforeseeable attitude on tax matters. In the context of the tax reform, the current government parties also asked for an examination of property taxes, housing taxes and property taxes as a whole. The results have been preliminary to increase the taxes on wealth, in particular on housing, and also a goal of introducing mandatory property taxes. The equation rates were increased by 25 pst. for the fiscal year 2006. That said the representative Holmås now should contribute to more justice. If the rates from before are crooked, and you increase by 25 p.m., it's hard for me – at least with my education – to find out that there's going to be more justice. I'd say it's getting smaller. The current proposal to introduce a roof for other real estate property is therefore very timely. This will primarily benefit commercial property and, in particular, farm use, i.e. properties that serve both as dwellings and as means of operating, the double effect of increased taxation. Therefore, it is alarming that the centre party, which, most recently in the treatment of the 2005 tax scheme, had a particular comment that ordinary dwellings had to be protected from house taxes, has not come through any more. Now you have been involved in this 25 p.m. increase in the rates for 2006, then you would not be able to participate in a fair restriction that benefits first and foremost farming, and then you serve a blow in the air in the form of a comment that you will ‘consider that valuation of other real estate should not contribute to the unreasonable burden on business’. Yeah, that's exactly what we've been suggesting. If you want to, you could just vote for it instead of resorting to cryptic comments. What will happen is that you will probably be involved in increasing property taxes on dwellings and farm use for 2007. For primary industries, it must be difficult to identify the concepts of ‘active enterprise policy’ and ‘more tools in the case’ through such positions. I can't do it. I had hoped that the representative Lundtigen would be present here today, so that he could give me some guidance in that art. Tax reform and all crossroads in the debate on taxes on people's housing are constantly returning to the weaknesses of valuation, namely that tariffs can be arbitrary, as the Minister of Finance does in his letter to the Committee. It is surprising, then, that one will not contribute to and positively recommend a proposal that at least reduces some of these injustices. But it's hardly this that's behind the government party's desire for taxiing. There's increased taxes that are the goal, not equality and justice. I think the Minister of Finance says it quite clearly in his letter. She says that tariffs and tariff rules should not be such as to encourage people to invest in owner-occupied housing. We're not going to have a good enough home to crawl into shelter in cold winters or as a means of farming, as we've seen. It is not ‘efficient resource use’, states the Council of State, to use our resources on owner-occupied dwellings. Therefore, taxes are going to increase. I think that if in a country like Norway, where the housing of climatic conditions means more than most other places in the world, you want to distort resource use in this way, you have to put a lot on the tax before people stop having a good housing. The fact that the Center Party can be completely indifferent to this is a big mystery to me. I have to say that it must be alarming around in the many communities, in the districts, where people have built up their homes, their farms, on self-storage, entrepreneurship, accuracy and responsibility for homes and homes, and for themselves and theirs. Seldom, I must say.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e915	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e918	I know the representative Fleet as a real and good guy. That is why I am surprised that in the debate on his own proposal, which is about the taxation of commercial property, he spends most of his time talking about housing and taxing housing. My simple question to the fleet representative is this: whoever would probably make the most of the introduction of such an equation tariff as the Fleet and the Right would want would be Olav Thon and other large commercial property owners in Oslo, who would be able to get a maximum rate of 30 pst. on its commercial property. Why will the representative Fleet provide a large tax relief to Olav Thon and other major business owners, and why does the fleet feel that it is better to invest in commercial property than to invest in shares or other investment objects?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e925	I do not know how much the representative Holmås has been in rural areas, but there you operate in the place where you live, so that the dwelling is a means of operating. That is what is at the heart of our proposal. It is also what brings together the greatest uprising, with the Christian People's Party's subsidiary proposals. That's why I'm surprised that you can't go into this instead of getting cryptic suggestions that you might think this is a good idea. With regard to the importance for the different industries, I recommend that the representative Holmås go into the Ministry of Finance's answer to one of our questions about this, where it comes with a table from the Statistical Central Bureau showing that the amount and the main weight of the values are actually in the primary industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e932	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e935	Yes, the background that we have at all this kind of debate is the arbitraryness that is generally associated with the valuation of real estate. It has been tried to fix it by setting a maximum real value limit in terms of housing and leisure property, and then there is a proposal here today that expands this further. I listened to the representative Holmås. He was very concerned that there are reasons to protect owners of dwellings. It might be interesting to ask: what is it that makes him still want to protect those who own recreational homes? Isn't it the same groups that wonder and buy large, fine cabins and other types of leisure properties that he thinks the proposal of the Right also benefits? I don't think that's a consistent argument. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we had thought – what to say – to meet some of the government parties a little more by proposing that this maximum rate may also apply in agriculture and forestry. When, on the part of the government parties, there has been talk of favouring investors with this proposal, I have some doubts as to whether it is considered that in these primary industries there are very large margins in operation which make it possible to compensate investors, as the representative Holmås was at the heart of it. The majority write in the setting: ‘The majority would therefore stress that the valuation of other immovable property should not contribute to an unreasonable burden on business.’ Then the question is, isn't it exactly what happens to some people in agriculture and forestry, that it becomes unreasonable because the way to tax is as different as it is in different parts of the country? I am addressing the proposal of the Christian People's Party that is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e954	The representative of the Seven has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e957	Document No The 8th proposal by the Right-Representatives Fleet, Sanner, Gitmark and Gundersen on Equation Rates for Non-residential Property and Leisure Housing is in many ways the continuation of a long foeion on Equation Rates for Different Property Types dealt with by the Storting in recent years. Among others, the Left was in favour of the proposal adopted unanimously by the Stortinget on 15 June 2001, which asked the Government to ‘instruct the Equation Offices to assume that complaints at today’s Equation Tariffs are to be followed by a maximum tariff of 30 pst. by the technical value of the house or 30 pst. of observable market price if the current Equation Rate exceeds this.» This was followed up by the government in which I myself was the Council of State, in connection with the tax and tax arrangements for 2002. A unanimous Finance Committee then joined this proposal. Later, we followed up this policy with further relief in property taxation. Unfortunately, the change of government led to the reversal of this policy too, with its undesirable effects. The sitting government used its majority power to increase the equivalency of dwellings, leisure properties and other real estate by 25 p.m. The maximum limit with access to justice whose equivalency can be demonstrated to exceed 30 pst. of demonstrable market value, continued to be proposed, but only for dwellings and leisure properties. The result of government and government party policies becomes directly hostile to districts. While most of the dwellings are naturally located in central areas, tables by the Ministry of Finance, as also the representative Fleet indicated, show that other real estate is essentially owned by self-employed persons in the primary industries, particularly in relation to farm use. Government policy, with 25 pst. increase in the equivalency of this type of property without the same 30 p.m. limit as for dwellings and leisure properties will provide farmers and self-employed in the districts with a significant tax boost. In reality, government policy has two consequences: it is becoming more expensive to take over farm use, and such discrimination between different types of property would be an additional incentive to convert farm use into recreational property. It must be a paradox for a government that believes that every single farm being laid down is a defeat. There is reason to wait and be excited about the central party's comments on this matter. While the previous government led a policy that was consistent with both fiscal and agricultural policies, it is, to say the least, difficult to understand what this government is doing. Document No Of course, the 8 proposal has broad support for farmers as well. In the nation on 30 January this year, Secretary General Harald Milli of the League says that ‘It is very good that this proposal comes up in such a way that we will at least be cut off from higher value at the property tax on farm use. Higher Equation Tariffs add tax incentives to agriculture and weaken the ability of industry to form equity.» In reality, this proposal could nullify the tax consolidation that the red-green government has imposed on the industry, calculated at a point of between 50 million. NOK 100 million. kr. The fact that the Workers' Party and SV are not so much interested in it is to some extent possible to understand, but that the Centre Party, which could have participated and secured the majority of the proposal, is not aware of it, is reasonably incomprehensible based on all the rhetoric about how important it is to call about family farming, etc. The left gives its wholehearted support to the proposal to instruct the Equations Offices to treat other real estate in the same way as dwellings and leisure homes. We have no reason to believe in the majority's half-hearted statement that you expect the government to come back to this on an appropriate occasion. It means asking the Government to put the proposal in a drawer and lock it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e982	It is with a little wonder that I have followed today's debate, because the arbitrary nature of today's system is so great, and it is strange that the Senter party does not agree with the proposal. In this way, this should definitely be "an appropriate context", as it says in the setting, to do something with the system. I am also surprised to hear the case rapporteur when he claims that it is Thon and the kingdoms of Oslo that will be most favoured by the proposal. Not only is it what the representative Sponheim says, that other real estate is actually substantially located in District Norway, but if one conducted a study on the difference between market value and equivalency, I am reasonably sure that the difference is significantly lower in District Norway than in the more central regions. In this respect, it appears that this proposal is rejected, as relatively hostile to districts, to say the least. The fact that the Center Party is involved, I find it very strange. The taxes on wealth are particularly burdensome for long-term, capital-intensive industries, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. agriculture and, in particular, investments in other real estate. Now, if you get a movement that you can probably fear, that the equation values are still going to be upgraded upwards to market value, the wealth tax is going to be so burdensome that the industry just can't bear it. So once again – I think it’s strange that the Center Party doesn’t now see this appropriate opportunity to do something about the particular randomness of the system and ensure that the very most outraged rashes are removed. You now had a good opportunity to do that. It didn't arrest the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e993	The proposers behind this document No. The 8 proposal invites Stortinget to a comprehensive tax debate that I believe belongs to when dealing with the state budget. It is then that all the individual elements of the tax system, including the property tax, are up to a comprehensive assessment and a comprehensive review. The issues raised in connection with this Document No. Of course, the 8 proposal is issues that will be assessed against the 2007 budget. That's the one. The second is that it's no wonder that the right-hand side and the left-hand side are fundamentally in disagreement with regard to property taxes. This is an old sweep that several people have been into here. We believe that some of the things that are skewst distributed in Norway are wealth. This means that we should have a tax on wealth, but of course it should be designed so that it is reasonable for business and takes good distribution policy. Then I want to say that I believe that the opposition should not bother the centre party in this matter. Of course, the issues raised, particularly in the proposals of the Christian People's Party, need to be considered and brought back in the 2007 budget. It is not that the agricultural industry is coming out badly because the Central Party has come into government. One thing to remember is that with the changes in the wealth tax proposed by this government, the value of the agricultural deduction increased compared to that proposed by the Bondevik government to the Stortinget. So in sum, the agricultural industry comes out as so well with what the government has proposed. I have nothing to add to what the rapporteur has said. A comprehensive discussion on the tax system comes back in the context of the 2007 state budget, and no matter how many lines I get, I'm not going to say anything more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1004	It's going to be a line chord change anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1007	I find that the Minister of Finance doesn't want to say anything special about taxing, but I have some comments on what she said here, and also some questions. The Minister of Finance says that wealth is unreasonably distributed in Norway, and that is why we need to increase the wealth tax, as I understand the Minister of Finance. What's a problem, which turns out to be more and more, is that the richest people in the country move out of Norway and stay there. So the richest man in Norway doesn't pay taxes to Norway at all. There are also several people who are under him, who do well to move to other countries for tax reasons, so that they avoid the taxes on wealth. So with the property tax, it's going to be cheaper to own Norway from abroad than from Norway. Is this a problem that's up to the Minister of Finance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1014	First of all, I just want to say that it is not possible to draw the conclusion of my post that we are going to tighten up the property tax. But I'm defending that we have a property tax, because if we look at the 10 pst. The richest people in Norway, they have almost all the wealth. To a large extent, it is built up over time, and that means that we are going to have a tax system that also means that wealth is taxed. Then I have noticed that the Progress Party has sent a beggar letter to shipowner Fredriksen to get him to move back to Norway. Investment taxes are probably a theme in that context. However, I would like to insist that Norway has a good tax system for Norwegian business. Norwegian business is going very well at the moment, with nice profits and high activity. There is one problem that is being reported, and it is often possible to lack skilled labour, but it is not possible to solve tax changes or lower taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1021	It's true that the wealth is misdistributed here in the country, and I have confidence in the Minister of Finance when she says she's going to do something about it. I'm convinced of that, and she's already doing that. But that's not what this case is about. This is primarily the case in farms which are also home to ordinary people in ordinary industries. The Minister of Finance has been very positive about this. She has also said that it should be included in the ordinary budgetary procedures. Yeah, that's all right. But I think this is relatively strong on its own, and it would be interesting if the finance minister could elaborate on whether she had a point of view on this matter, detached from the fact that there are a lot of rich people in the country. What could she expect to do for this group that is quite obviously coming out wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1028	First of all, it is not the proposal by the fleet representative that is initially concerned. It concerns all real estate, and it will have distributive effects that go far beyond the discussion of the primary industry. That's the one. The second is that the issues raised in connection with this Document No. The 8 proposal, will be evaluated by 2007, but I do not conclude in this assessment. However, it is important to consider the context of agricultural taxation. Agriculture, in total, has benefited very well from the change in government, because we have made other changes that benefit this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1035	Although the Council of State does not want to give more answers with content, at least the Council of State must listen to the lines and deal with them, for I assume that the Government has not intended to lift the meeting obligation of the Council of State in 1884, which is called parliamentaryism in that country. I don't think either the state council or the government parties have responded well to this with the valuation of agricultural properties so far, because these are residential properties where you are much more concerned with the possibility of taking a profit. Urban housing can be sold, you can take part in increasing values in this housing hierarchy and take out significant gains. That possibility is not there in agriculture, where people are stuck in their homes in a completely different way. The farmers themselves have calculated that in the government’s arrangement there is a tax tightening of between 50 and 100 million. kr, although there was a slight increase in the so-called agricultural deduction. So that's not exactly what was said. Doesn't the Council of State see the need to look differently at agricultural properties, where people are then condemned to live, than what the Government has done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1044	First, I would like to say that the Minister of Finance is an industrious presence in Stortinget and a patient listens to the debates. But to start a discussion about the tax system and the valuation of various property items in the middle of the treatment of two government budgets, the Minister of Finance does not intend to invite. I think the representative of Sponheim has a certain understanding of that too. The objections of the representative Sponheim are not the first time I have heard them. Relevant objections may need to be considered. We make those assessments, and then we come back to the 2007 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1051	The reason why I took the floor and asked the question again is that the Minister of Finance did not have a particularly high level of detail in his previous reply to me. She claimed that we had sent a beggar letter to John Fredriksen. Of course we don't. We have written a letter asking for information. The letter is not just for him, it is sent to several Northmen who have moved out of the country and taxes to other countries. We've asked what's the reason why one doesn't find it preferable to be bussets in Norway and pay taxes here. What's paradoxical here is that if a cage lives abroad and has property in Norway, it doesn't matter with a 30 pst rule or anything. So one doesn't pay taxes on wealth at all. My question is: Does the Minister of Finance really think that it can be called a beggar's letter when we ask for information about what makes the Nordics move abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1060	I think it is very clarifying that the Progress Party writes letters to shipowner John Fredriksen and starts the discussion that I think is a very clear error trail. Norway will never be able to win a competition in tax dumping with different tax havens. If there is a billionaire who wants to operate from a tax haven, where tax is dropped at all, we may not be able to prevent it, but at least we can prevent the type of argument from being used to undermine what is the welfare state's basis, namely that we have a tax system where we pay taxes to the community according to our ability, and where the most important parts of the welfare state, such as health, hospitals, etc., are funded jointly. If the Advance Party wants to send more letters and start that round, I think the voters can decide for themselves. On the contrary, we are committed to having a fair tax in Norway. This means that those with large wealth and high incomes should contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1066	The Minister of Finance's reply gives cause for concern. What she is doing is making the issue of non-discrimination between dwellings and other property, including agricultural property, solely a matter of proceeds, because she refers this to the treatment of budgets, but refuses to give any political signals. I understand that the Minister of Finance will give no answer to how much wealth tax is going to increase by increasing the equation tariffs. However, I find it difficult to understand that neither the Swedish Government nor the Swedish Government can make any views of a political nature in this matter. I do not hide the fact that we are promoting this proposal in order to be able to be a stronghold against new increases in the Equation Tariffs, similar to what the Government proposed for 2006. My question is: does the Minister of Finance see this solely as a matter of proceeds, or does she also have a political view of whether there should be equal treatment or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1075	No, the government doesn't see tax issues just as a proceeds issue, nor questions about the property tax. Of course, these questions have to do with how much money we get into the treasury. It's proceeds, for those who shouldn't be inside the internal jargons. Then, of course, it has to do with industrial policy, distribution policy and, to the extent that district policy is also involved. All of these four factors are involved in assessing our overall tax regime. Then, of course, the representative is Sanner. He's got a lot of experience. He knows he's not going to come to any conclusions today about the assessments we're making against the State budget for 2007, and that there's no way to draw any conclusion on wealth taxes or valuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1082	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1085	We have noticed that the opposition is trying to make a big tax debate out of this Document No. The 8th proposal, an absolute tax debate, as underlined by the Minister of Finance, should take place in the context of the annual government budgets, which would, of course, also have been done by the opposition if they had been in government. We're concerned with the equation value. We're engaged in property taxes. But we are concerned that this discussion will take place in the context of the budget. I would also like to stress what is pointed out by the majority in the vote, namely that ‘it would be important to stress that the valuation of other real estate should not contribute to an unreasonable burden on the exercise of economic activity’. This is a major issue that we must address in the context of the budget. We have to keep working on improving the situation for agriculture, as apparently many from the opposition are busy right now. I would like to stress that, in the 2006 budget, we have significantly improved the agricultural deduction. That's what we're working on. We also continue to look at the impact of changes in taxes on wealth on business, as the Minister of Finance pointed out in his statement. There we are part of the majority constellation, and we continue to work to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1097	Now the Central Party has just gone into what has been the subject of this exchange of lines, that is, whether one wants to contribute politically to more justice, to a change, and especially for the primary industries, which is affected by the fact that the 30 pst rule is not introduced there. My question will then be: will the Central Party, as opposed to the Minister of Finance, be more clear here today that it will politically follow up on this with a maximum limit, which will not least benefit the primary industries, and which it has itself said something about in this slightly cryptic note?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1104	I want to confirm that we are continuing to work on improving the framework conditions for business in general, and we are continuing to work on improving the framework conditions for agriculture in particular. However, we believe that it is right to take part in a budget debate, not in the context of a Document No. Eight proposals presented here. With that in mind, this time is not to go into the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1109	I think we'll probably come back to tax debates when it comes to the budget, but months after a election, when you do the opposite of what you say, it's not so unreasonable that the opposition uses the opportunity to get the position in talk. It's an important part of democracy, too, and that's what happens now, to decipher it. Some misinformation has emerged in this debate. These include: to the effect that tax relief has been granted to agriculture this year. It's not. Only the increase in the annual tractor charge, as proposed by the new government, represents the same amount as the so-called agricultural deduction. In addition, the other tax incentives, property taxes, etc., as we see here. So this is going in the opposite direction to what's necessary to do, and what the central party has expressed should be done. When we face a new WTO regime, using taxes for agriculture is one of the only legitimate things we can do to give some competitiveness. My question is simply: does Lars Peder Breck see that the country, and we, must do the opposite of what this government has now done, in order to make agriculture more robust in meeting new framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1118	I agree with Mr Sponheim on one point, and that is that the WTO agreement, when it comes, will pose major challenges for agriculture. It is also underlined in this context that one then is engaged in exploiting the scope of action we have in Norwegian policy, in order to ensure the continued viability of agriculture in the districts, around the country. That is our starting point for further work, and we also take that when we know the outcome of the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1123	I must be allowed to praise the government parties for the new party discipline that has now come into play in dealing with politics here in the Stortinget, for now, suddenly, the Senter Party no longer has any position on protecting agriculture against the Government's increases in the equality tariffs. The farm has been crystal clear on its support for the Right proposal, and I have met many farmers who are very concerned after they received a tax return in 2006. This proposal could be a coup d'état against the SVs and others in the Government's desire to further increase the Equation Fees. So my question is: is it that the center party now bends for the discipline and reaches its arms in the weather and says that they have no view of this, or is it such that one should whisper this internally and appear without a profile externally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1132	In the same way that when Jan Tore Sanner was part of a government constellation and worked closely, it is of course also true that the central party as part of this government constellation is working closely to promote its views. It is quite obvious that it is common to do so, and we do so in this case as well. A Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals. It's a big deal, which has to do with the budget. That is why we are also concerned that it should be carried out in the context of the budget debate, in the same way that we are concerned that other parts of the tax debate should be held there. I would also like to stress that we are concerned that business should have good framework conditions, and we will work for that in the context of the tax package for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1142	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1158	The issue we are about to deal with today includes two very central areas in the Norwegian fishing industry, fisheries processing and fish exports. One is the implementation of the first hand placing on the market of fish, and the other relates to fish exports. The years we talk about are 2003 and 2004. This is a descriptive part of what has happened, and there is broad agreement in the Committee on Everything Important in These Matters. However, there are two sides I would like to comment on in particular. One is the test procedure with the proposed mediation body, which we hope can be carried out. The test project shall assume that unless the purchaser and seller of fish becomes aware of the price and delivery conditions, there shall be a stand-alone, stand-alone mediation body to be able to pass through on some of these areas. This work has been stalled for a period of time. I know there's been a lot of work going on trying to get this done, so I'd like the Council of State to comment on developments and what happens when it comes to getting to a neutral mediation agency. The second is this with the implementation of fish exports. There has been a positive increase in exports of Norwegian seafood in both 2004 and 2005. In 2005, we're actually up in a new record, at NOK 31.7 billion, which is very happy that you've got. Although the close markets that the EU and Russia, together with Japan, are the big ones, it is also important to get into such a debate that we actually export seafood to 150 countries. One of the hubs we have in this work is the Committee on Fish Exports, and that's the other question I want to challenge the Council of State: Last year, the Committee on Fish Exports was transformed from being a purely administrative body to having one part that takes care of it, and one part organized as a corporation that takes care of the purely market situation. I would like – if possible – to say a little about the experience you have had so far in this work. Otherwise, as I said, it is a unanimous recommendation that comes from the Committee, and I am very pleased that there is a broad political agreement on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1173	The Raw Fish Act and the Fish Export Act are the main tools of the authorities to regulate the marketing of fish. The law has, among other things: a transit ban which means that catches landed in Norway cannot be exported out of the country unless the fish have been traded through or with the approval of a type of sale. If the fish is not landed in Norway but imported from another country, there is no such transit ban. The EU has for a long time demanded that EU vessels be given the opportunity to transit fish through Norway, and in the extension of the EU/EEA Agreement, Norwegian authorities accepted the transit of EU caught fish. In return, the EU would, on its part, increase the quota for frozen, placarded shrimps that can be exported free of customs duties to the EU. The existing quota is 5500 tonnes and should then be extended to 8000 tonnes. The message goes that this case has not been resolved, but I understand that it has been working on these questions, and that a solution is actually within reach. As I understand it, there are in particular two issues that have been crucial. The first is that the fish to be transited through Norway shall be weighed by landing in order to avoid fishing jacks, and the Norwegian authorities have concluded that such weighing should be carried out. The second question concerns the origin of the fish that can be transited through the country. The EU Commission has considered that fish caught by third country vessels transhipped to EU vessels are also subject to the transit agreement. In practice, this would be Russian caught fish. In particular, I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on the status of these issues and, if necessary, to indicate when an agreement on transit with the EU may be ready. With the extensive illegal fishing that has been revealed in the Barents Sea and the irregular export of black fish that we have seen to the European market, it is very important, in my view, to strengthen the control systems and ensure that we are best protected against the illegal transit of caught fish through Norway. The Raw Fish Act does not prevent the conclusion of long-term agreements between the purchaser and the seller. However, there have been and are wide variations in the types of sales used by the different sales teams and the extent to which the conclusion of long-term contracts is accepted. I have noticed that the department has initiated a two-year trial project between the sales teams and the land industry. The aim of the project is to gain experience with long-term agreements in different parts of the industry. The pilot project is ongoing and will be evaluated in the next major notification on the implementation of the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Exports Act. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Economic and Social Committee unanimously emphasises in particular the need for the fisheries processing industry to have equal and stable access to raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1191	I will also mention the issue of the mediation system that has been adopted. Within the framework of the Raw Fish Act, the parties, FHL, NSL and the Norwegian Fisheries Team, have agreed on the framework for a two-year trial project with regard to the mediation body. I want to point out a couple of the points that are important there. In the first 12 months, the mediation institute shall focus on pricing, and in the first 12 months, the parties shall define separately and together what other business conditions it considers appropriate to bring into the mediation institute with a view to their implementation by 1 September 2006. I believe that the parties have a little short time at work, but we look forward to the result they're coming up with. I would like to stress that even during the examination of the matter in the committee, we have been concerned with both price and settlement rules, but we are also concerned not to prejudge the negotiation that will take place between the parties. I want to underline that from my side. It is important that the parties are the ones to resolve this matter in the framework of the law on raw fish. It is important that the parties are able to clarify the rules for settlement to be included, if any, in the mediation institute. I also want to stress in the end that there must be no kind of doubt that the fishermen will still have a guarantee of payment and a guarantee for settlement as part of the raw fish system. It's also important for us to underline in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1204	There's a bunch of stuff, the unaccompanied Progress Party, that's still going to hold on to the raw fish law. But the left looks like several others how important it is with the modernisation and softening of the raw fish law that allows long-term agreements between buyers and sellers to be concluded. So far, this looks positive, and we are of course waiting to draw conclusions until the evaluation comes in 2007. Fishing is a very important industry, and in its comments, the Committee also has the potential to point out a number of things, other than what is just about raw fish law, such as. a. something has been said about the WTO and free trade agreements through EFTA. I would also like to point out that it is important for those negotiating, to view fishing as a very important industry, as well as agriculture. So I'll use the first chance I have, to praise the government for the choice she made between oil and fish on the More coast. I thought it was a great choice that the fishing industry, which means so much to our coast, was given priority in that context. So thank you for that! The Committee's comments also mentioned the importance of solid, stable supply of raw materials, as pointed out here by Gullvåg. I would also like to point out that we all want the fish processing companies, especially in the north, which now seem to have had the opportunity to develop further, to secure fishing access. But then I would like to point out that it is important for the Minister of Fisheries to deal with this, also to look at the structure and the structuring stop that has been set in motion. We know that boats to deliver to these fish processing plants are currently unable to deliver fresh fish, because they cannot gather quotas on the peach trawlers. It's serious for the businesses they're going to be taking. Then this message is also about controlling the landing of fish. We have received quite a lot of signals that there is a gap in the legislation, or that the legislation is being exploited or circumvented, so that Russian fish are still being presented as Norwegian in Poland, for example, and that Norwegian fish disappear at the borders. I would just like to say that intensive work is being put in place when it comes to controlling the fish both during landing, by resource control and also during transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1217	Although this notification mainly covers the years 2003 and 2004, some cases have also been included in the communication since 2005. Compared to first-hand sales, there have been two issues that have been in focus in recent years. These are the trial projects on long-term agreements and on mediation bodies. In relation to long-term agreements, as mentioned in the Communication, a pilot project has been set up both in the whitefish sector and in the pelagic sector. In the case of the establishment of a mediation body, such as Stortinget in the treatment of St.melding. No 19 for 2004-2005 on marine value creation called on the industry to establish, I can inform you that this now seems to be in place. There is agreement between the sales teams and the land industry on the composition of the names, and only practical clarifications are still available before the mediation body can come into force. The industry agrees that two mediation bodies should be set up, one for white fish and the other for pelagic. This agreement was reached after the notification was submitted in December, so that this naturally does not appear in the notification. In line with the agreement concluded between the sales laws and the land industry last summer, the first 12 months of the mediation institute shall focus on pricing. During this period, it is also necessary to clarify what kind of other business situation might be considered to be a reason for bringing the mediation institute into operation, with a view to implementing it one year after the mediation bodies have started up. Since the trial project has been delayed somewhat in relation to what was provided for in the agreement between the parties, the parties have agreed that all time-limits should be shifted accordingly, and that means that the intentions of the project are properly respected. Both the trial project on long-term agreements and the trial project on mediation bodies shall be evaluated once they have been completed, and they will form an important part of the bulk notification on the implementation of the raw fish law, to be submitted to the Stortinget in 2007. These are two important projects in relation to the first hand placing on the market of fish, and it will be interesting to see what conclusions can be drawn from the evaluation of the pilot projects. As regards the issue of the right of EU vessels to transit fish through Norway, the Communication sets out two key issues that remained to be addressed. These questions are now solved, and the outcome was as we wanted. This means that the fish must be weighed on landing and that transit must only be available for EU caught fish. We are currently waiting for a response from the Commission on the more specific details. Now, as it looks, there's a reason to think that an implementation is right around the corner. The Committee, acting unanimously, has indicated that the year before ended with a new export record. These are very happy results, and it looks so good this year as well. Although there are many things that go well, there are also challenges. The Committee refers to the importance of improved market access for Norwegian seafood and that the authorities must continue to intensify this work. I can confirm that the Government is on market issues. These are demanding questions. In January, the United States of America decided to extend the anti-dumping measures against fresh round salmon originating in Norway. It happened despite strong Norwegian mobilization in advance. In the case of the anti-dumping case vis-à-vis the EU, the procedure for bringing the case before the WTO is well established. With regard to WTO negotiations, the Government actively pursues both the defensive interests we have in agriculture and the offensive interests we have in relation to NAMA, including seafood. I have noticed that the Committee wishes to review the experience gained with the new organisation of the Committee on Fish Exports. I assume that some time has passed so far since the Committee on Exports was transformed, last September, and that we should wait a little longer before the evaluation of this reorganisation is done. Of course, we're going to come back to Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1234	It's going to be line change. For information: There is a new arrangement in Stortinget. If, after an article, the sequence is repeated, the cord shall be changed from the intercoms on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1239	I thank you for the help. It's always useful to learn something new. I would first like to thank the Minister for the answers we received. Although there is a broad consensus in the Committee on Most – and here there are a lot of bright sides – it is not possible to put under the chair that there is also some disunity when it comes to first-hand sales and organisation of that work. The point that may have highlighted a little debate in recent times is the extra-direction contained in the proposal on district allowances, which we have debated in this Chamber several times before. We know it's inconsistency, and we're not going to review it now. The opposition is critical of what is happening there, but it could be a good thing to get an answer to the question: Will the district quota legislation soon lead to the ultimate clarity of what this includes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1248	The government will work actively to ensure full-time access to the land industry on fresh raw material. The district quota system is part of this. We aim to ensure that proposals for a scheme are sent out for consultation after Easter and before the summer holiday, during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1253	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1275	25 years ago, China was a poor, underdeveloped and closed nation. Today, the country is one of the main engines of the world economy. The economy has grown annually by approx. 9 p.m., and the country has the largest currency reserves in the world. China is no longer just a challenger of cheap mass-produced goods, but also of high-tech services. This happens faster and on a larger scale than we expected a few years ago. China graduates 300,000 engineers each year – three times as many as India and the United States. Digitisation in China is faster than in many Western countries. You put the very latest technology into practice. A growing number of Western companies are now adding not only production but also research and development to China. Many see this development as a threat. I think we should be pleased with China's and India's growth, which has raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Only international trade can achieve such results. If we are to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals to halve poverty in the world by 2015, we must promote freer and fairer trade. It is also important to remember that Norway has built its well-being on trade. When other countries knock on our door with their products, we're going to take the challenge, and not shut them out. We see that forces both in the United States and in the European Union will protect their markets against competition from China. Such a policy will not solve any problems. On the contrary, they will weaken the growth of the world economy and thus our ability to create well-being. Last year, China exported goods to Norway for nearly 20 billion kroner. There'll be a lot more this year. China is the largest exporter to Norway outside Europe, and China’s share is increasing. This contributes to low price growth and thus low interest rates in our country, which benefits society as a whole. At the same time, our exports to China are too small, less than a third of imports. This is where our efforts need to be corrected. One of Norway’s leading economists, Knut Anton Mork, has pointed out that other Nordic countries are more present in China than Norway is. This worries me, and that's one of the reasons for this interpellation. The right considers that Norway should follow two main lines in China: we should cooperate more closely with China and make better use of its opportunities and resources than we do today. At the same time, we must compete even harder with China. When their products get cheaper and better, we and our products have to be even better. It requires research and development, creativity and hard work at home. None of these objectives are achieved by itself. Success in China – with China, and against China – requires great political, cultural and geographical knowledge, long experience, patience and strong political will, and not least a clear strategy. Our future actually depends on such a strategy, and on its success. The companies should of course do their part of the job. And a lot of people are doing great. It's impressive how focused many companies are on what it takes to meet the competition from China. It has to work smarter, it has to be more technology into the products, and more design has to be thought of. I was visiting the company at Ulefoss Jernverk in Telemark last week. That's where they produce kum lids. Also, these can be produced cheaper in China. But Ulefoss Jernverk has a clear strategy for how Norwegian kumlok can be made even better than Chinese kumlok. I have actually understood that a kumlock is not just a kumlock. Here, technology can actually be put into it, so that our camouflage can compete with the Chinese. A future-oriented industrial policy also has the State as a partner. I therefore want to challenge the Minister of Industry on what the State, represented by the Government, will do to provide business with the tools it needs to meet the challenges of globalisation. We need a knowledge school with a stronger commitment to real science. We need world-class competences and research environments. We need encouragement for the start-up of new businesses, and we need conversion-friendly business rules and competitive conditions for Norwegian companies and employees. I think it is worrying that the first thing the red-green government did when they came into the government offices was to cut research and innovation funds and to weaken the knowledge promise in the school through, among other things. to abandon the second mandatory foreign language. If we are to succeed, the main strategy of industrial policy cannot be linked to the companies that are going badly. Rather, the focus needs to be on how more people can go better. Let's not have any illusions about today's situation: the possibilities in China, and with China, are huge. At the same time, international competition for the Chinese market is hard and competition for Chinese production capacity is hard, regardless of whether it is for the local market or for export. In addition, there will be the need to understand Chinese culture, language, geography and decision-making structures. As regards concrete market and cooperation opportunities in China, I have already mentioned ICT and telecoms as well as research and development. We don't, however, get out of energy. China’s energy needs increase by 10-15 pst. This year. The strong growth in the demand for petroleum has contributed to high oil prices, and the growth in the number of cars in China is likely to be high oil prices for many years to come. Exports of Norwegian petroleum can and should be increased. In addition, Norwegian companies must be able to help China save energy, exploit it more efficiently and produce cleaner. Exports of seafood could also increase in the coming year, as Chinese purchasing power increases. The Chinese shipbuilding industry has come very far qualitatively and quantitatively in a few years. Here, too, there are great opportunities that Norway should be able to take even better advantage of than today. In 2008, China, as a known host to the Summer Olympics, is to be held in Shanghai in 2010. Both parts will be exploited by enterprises around the world. Norway, too, must be heavily present. I look forward to hearing what is the government's concrete strategy to improve Norway's ability to deal with competition from, among others. China, and how Norway and our businesses can take advantage of the opportunities that lie in a growing Chinese market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1319	The interpellant addresses one of the main industrial policy challenges we face, namely China's integration into the international economy, and I would like to thank Mr Sanner for that. Let me first point out that the enormous economic growth China has experienced in the last 25 years, first of all, is positive. There I can also agree with the representative, Mr Sanner. Thanks to this development, millions of people in China are promised out of poverty. Developments have also had a positive impact on the world economy, in particular by the fact that many types of consumer goods have become much cheaper for people across large parts of the world. There is no doubt that China continues to face major challenges, particularly in relation to democracy, human rights, the environment, combating differences and integrating inland China into the economic growth of coastal areas. In this connection, I would like to refer to the interpellation on Tuesday 28 March on the Norwegian-Chinese human rights dialogue. China’s growth has been largely export driven. China has become a major player in international trade, but still does not have an economic position that fully reflects its share of the world's population. There is no reason to believe that we have seen the end of the growth of China's trade. China’s new role in the world economy challenges established structures. China’s high labour supply leads to a worldwide labour-intensive industry now being subjected to a cost pressure that was totally unknown a few years ago. China’s growing role as a supplier is highlighted as a significant explanation of why, despite rising commodity prices, Europe and the United States have experienced low and stable inflation in recent years. At the same time, China, by its size, has the resources to challenge already industrialised countries in other areas as well. It must be expected that in the years to come, China will become an increasingly important supplier of its own brands, capital-intensive goods and high-tech products. What does China’s new role for Europe mean, and especially for Norway? Well, it means access to more competitive goods, especially consumer goods. It also implies the opening of a new export market for European products. At the same time, it means that particularly labour-intensive industries are exposed to stronger competition. In other words, China’s economic development offers opportunities, but also significant challenges. So how are we going to work towards markets like China? What should be at the bottom of this work? We must follow a two-part strategy in this context. Firstly, we must pursue an active and predictable industrial policy in Norway. We cannot compete for access to cheap labour. We must compete on the benefits of our high level of education and our well-developed public sector. In other words, we need to focus on knowledge, on research and development, and we need to focus on areas where we have a special advantage. We must maintain a stable economic policy and an active industrial policy. Therefore, the Government has increased the appropriations for innovation and research by half a billion DKK from 2005 to 2006. And we're betting on Norwegian seafarers, on infrastructure and a new patent policy, to mention something. An active enterprise policy is about action here at home, but also outside. Increased internationalisation of business is a natural part of this and is a priority task for the Government. The second part of our strategy is to develop a well-functioning economic and trade relationship with China and to support Norwegian business in their efforts towards the Chinese market. Bilateral economic and trade cooperation between Norway and China is well characterised by increased activity in almost all areas. China is now our biggest trading partner in Asia. As the interpellant is involved, we have a significant trade deficit with China. But the fact that we have a deficit in our trade with China, in itself, is not cause for concern, as we have a huge surplus in our trade with the rest of the world. This doesn't mean we're not going to take China's economic growth seriously and try to make the most of it. At the same time, it is important to point out that Norwegian exports to China have increased by a total of 149 pst. in the last five years. China is Norway's second largest export market in Asia, just shut down Japan. In the case of fish, which is our largest export product to China, exports increased by 30 pst. in 2005. Imports from China have also increased in recent years – in 2005 by 14 pst. It is important to be aware that the trade balance figures do not take into account significant Norwegian services to China, among others. related to shipping and travel. All in all, we are confident in a positive development. In total, some 200 Norwegian companies are engaged in China. These possibilities are high for sales to the Chinese market, but also for sales to other international markets. The activities in China contribute to strengthening the activities and profitability of many Norwegian enterprises in Norway. China remains a market that requires close follow-up by the government. I therefore focus on maintaining close contact with the Chinese authorities. At the same time, Innovation Norway is actively working for Norwegian interests in China. They do this through their offices in Beijing and Shanghai and through the network of offices in Norway. The WTO is the main trade policy tool to ensure predictable framework conditions for business. China's membership of the WTO is therefore important for Norwegian trade and Norwegian investment in China. China has already opened significantly to imports as a result of WTO commitments. This means increased possibilities for Norwegian exports. Where the WTO does not provide satisfactory market access solutions, the Government is actively engaged in the conclusion of free trade agreements through EFTA. We prioritise this and are in dialogue with China to initiate discussions on an agreement. The fact that business at home and out here takes social responsibility will determine whether to succeed in developing a fair, humane and sustainable working and business life in other parts of the world. Therefore, in contacts and cooperation with China, the area of workers’ rights and corporate social responsibility will be given increasing emphasis. In bilateral work, the Economic Cooperation Commission we have with China is of great importance. This addresses concrete issues related to the framework conditions for business activities in China and Norway. This year we are expanding this cooperation by setting up a bilateral working group to promote investment in China and Norway. This initiative is an important contribution to the Government’s efforts to strengthen trade between Norway and China. Overall, I consider the development of Norwegian-Chinese economic relations to be positive, and the possibilities for further improvement and further development are so absolute, although this will require targeted efforts and a great deal of innovation and development capacity from both Norwegian business and Norwegian authorities. In this way, the contribution of the interpellant here today is of considerable positive importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1359	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Minister of Industry took an interest in the interpellation. It was supposed to be lacking in itself, because, as the Minister of Industry himself said, this is one of the main industrial policy challenges for Norway. We are obviously very colliding in the actual description of the situation – that there are both challenges and opportunities in the Chinese market, and that it is positive that we are now seeing such strong growth in China. But those who had expected a clear strategy from the Government on how to meet these challenges were probably disappointed after hearing the Minister of Industry's comments. There was nothing new about how Norway should be better able to deal with competition from China, rather on the contrary. The Minister of Industry referred to the research and development budget, which the Government cut off in relation to the proposals of the previous government, and there were no proposals pointing forward in relation to how we should be better able to deal with this competition. On the other hand, I took an interest in the Minister of Industry mentioning the free trade agreement with China. It is a proposal that the Right will give its strong support. The previous Minister of Industry made sure that EFTA had negotiated a free trade agreement with South Korea and also made it clear that it was important for us to have a similar agreement with China. Now we know that Chile, our main competitor in the export of salmon, has signed a free trade agreement with China, which means that over 15 years they will gradually have the import duty on Chilean salmon removed. This is a major challenge for Norway as Chile is our leading competitor, so I would ask the Minister of Industry to elaborate on what is now in the Norwegian initiative to reach a free trade agreement with China. Has Norway received support from EFTA in order to negotiate such an agreement, or are we currently at the stage to which we want to have it? This is an important area for Norway, as exports of seafood are and will be a high priority target for us. It is perhaps one of the most important challenges we have in terms of getting better access to the Chinese market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1372	It is quite right that the previous government did a considerable amount of work in the four years they spent with the government, for which they must have all the credit. Let me say that the answer to many of the questions asked by the representative Sanner lies in what I would like to define as an active and predictable industrial policy. We do this because Norway has a small and open economy, and we rely on trade to maintain a high value creation and a high level of well-being. We do it because China's rapid economic development offers great opportunities for Norwegian companies. Norwegian industry has products, goods and services that Chinese market demand. We do this because exports of goods and services to China contribute to social and economic development in China, while Norwegian consumers get good and reasonable products from China. And we do that because Norwegian companies that succeed internationally help to strengthen their business in Norway. Then the representative Sanner points to the possibilities and calls for the involvement of a possible free trade agreement with China. The initiative for a free trade agreement between EFTA and China was taken during the recent visit of the former State Council Børge Brende to China in 2004 and was followed up at the Commission meeting here in Oslo in 2005. China has been reluctant to say anything about whether this work can start. Iceland has launched bilateral feasibility studies related to a possible agreement with China. But they have also asked through EFTA to include EFTA in this process. China has said that they will assess this after the studies on Iceland have been completed in June this year. I am optimistic, because at the last EFTA Ministerial meeting it was clearly stated that EFTA agreed that this was a free trade agreement that would be worked for. The representative, Sanner, points to the export of seafood in his first post. It is also a matter that I raised with my Russian colleague Reiman when I visited Russia three weeks ago: overflights over Siberia in the export of fish and seafood to China and Japan. And that's another part of opening up opportunities for increased Norwegian trade with China.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1381	I think it is nice that through this interpellation we have the opportunity to shed light on Norwegian-Chinese economic cooperation. China is not only a large country in terms of area and population, but it also has a strong growing economy to a large extent. China has also become a very important market for us. China, as the Council of State just mentioned, is our biggest trading partner in Asia, and it will obviously become even more important in the years to come. What is happening in China is therefore of direct relevance not only to the world economy, but also to a small country like Norway. Our open and increasingly globalised economy is of course contributing to this. Norway and China have had maritime cooperation for many years. Norwegian shipowners are building more and more ships at Chinese shipyards. In return, Norwegian equipment suppliers have been granted access to the Chinese market. So far we have a technological advantage in this area because we have an improperly more advanced production than the Chinese have so far been able to do. But it is not natural that it should be so in the future. With the efforts now being made by the Chinese in maritime and maritime industries, they come quickly to the West in this area. Unless we ourselves understand to take advantage of the advantages that we have, by continuing to invest in research and development and living maritime industries, the leap will be quickly eaten up. And since I actually believe that Norwegian shipping and Norwegian seafarers are a vital condition for maritime operations in this country, I am glad that this government has re-created optimism in the maritime industries. The net pay system for seafarers has contributed to this in itself. When the Government of Soria Moria states that Norway must have an ambition to lead the world in maritime research, development of competences and innovation, it is also an expression of the will to bet. We must also ensure that Norwegian shipping companies and seafarers are able to face it increasingly tougher international competition. In this respect, I would like to highlight in particular the Government's own commitment to take international initiatives to ensure a level playing field for seafarers in Nordic and European countries, among others. to prevent tax competition. Indeed, growth in the Chinese economy is creating new opportunities for our merchant fleet. These possibilities are important that we know how to exploit them. As the Minister of Industry pointed out in his speech, fish are our biggest export to China. For me, however, it is a cross of thought that it is worth transporting Norwegian fish to China to be processed there before it is transported back to Norway and Europe for sale to consumers in our part of the world. In particular, it is an expression that transport is too cheap, but it is also an expression of China's level of development with enormously low wages and working conditions, which we must return to the first part of the last century to find the spouse of here in the country. Therefore, it is in our own interest that the level of wealth in China is rapidly improving, and that workers who benefit from the increase in wealth that is now taking place. Developments in China go in many ways in different directions. Increasing wealth for millions of people and a new economic freedom are an important contribution to the overall well-being of the country. For example, it is a paradox that China is now one of the most important markets for Norwegian fur industry, and that the demand for mink and fox skin on the Chinese market is a major cause of record prices and clone-like conditions in fur industry in several countries. Just a week ago, in this Chamber, we had another debate on China, with the background of the representative Vallersnes’ interpellation on the human rights dialogue with China. We were then told that the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his department believes that it is important to improve our own competence in and about China and Chinese conditions precisely in light of China's importance for rapidly growing Norwegian-Chinese relations. It is possible it is a naive notion, but I believe that our values and our attitude towards human rights, working conditions and environmental issues in the long term will be an advantage for a small country like Norway, including trade policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1396	Exports to and establishments in China can be a double edged sword for Norwegian companies. Although China is emerging as an attractive market for Norwegian exports and the prospect of cheap labour makes business start-ups tempting, there are unfortunately some challenges to be faced in the Chinese market. One of these challenges is the extensive piracy practiced by some Chinese companies. This piracy has now gone so far that China’s Supreme Court has established a specific court to deal with intellectual property rights. The Court also establishes an internet site where pirates are to be hanged out. Although it is admirable that Chinese authorities deal with this, it may be a bit optimistic to believe that Chinese authorities are able to get to the bottom of the problem when, according to the Swedish newspaper Dagens Industri, only 166,000 civil lawsuits were filed last year due to piracy in China. For Norwegian companies that spend $10 million on product development, and additional millions on marketing around the world, there is a bitter experience when someone makes a copy of their product, then competing with the product in the same markets in which they operate. At the same time, there is a market problem when customers believe they buy a quality product from a Norwegian supplier, while the reality is that they have bought only a similar product that does not have the characteristics required by the Norwegian authorities for safety and quality. One of the companies that have just experienced this is Nobø Electro AS, located with headquarters in Stjørdal. At a large electrical trade fair in Cologne in Germany, Norwegian representatives discovered an exhibition that contained copies of one of Nobø’s furnace series. Through nine-time work, Nobø has now succeeded in obtaining pictures and marketing materials for the Chinese company's products. This information shows that the products, launched in the same markets that Nobø operates around the world, are exact copies. This will be a major problem for a Norwegian company that uses millions of kroner to develop Norwegian quality products that will be able to compete on the international market. To some extent, products may be protected by safeguarding patent or licensing rights, but there will always be a question of possibility, cost and benefits. Will a complaint to the Chinese Supreme Court be dealt with at all, where appropriate when, knowing that it is lodged at the lower edge of 600 complaints every day throughout the year? I am signed by the belief that the problem I have just outlined will only escalate in the future, as the world economy is becoming increasingly globalized. I could well imagine an answer from the Minister for Industry on how he intends to deal with the problem of piracy of Norwegian products, and whether he will deal with this with his Chinese colleague?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1411	The focus that has been on China for the last week is affordable. There should have been more in the Norwegian economy involved. And as the interpellant and the Minister of Industry said, we are now facing a very important dilemma. I want in my post to focus on the Chinese Yuan – their currency. It is said that only a brave man or a fool traces the development of exchange rates. Nevertheless, you look at the United States, where there are actually a lot of people who are tracking the development of the Chinese Yuan. President Hu Jintao is going to visit Washington DC on April 20 this year. In advance of the visit, there are very many, especially in the U.S. Congress, who are concerned with the trade deficit. I have a great deal of understanding that American congressmen are – you know that there are soon midterm elections to Congress, and you also know that the US trade deficit for China alone is on astronomical $202 billion. It puts the Norwegian trade deficit in relation to China in a slightly different light. Now I also understand that the US government is frustrated, because the Chinese Yuan is revalued by 2.1 pst. against the dollar since July – and has only grown by 1 pst. after that. This week the U.S. Senate was supposed to meet to discuss possible penalties against Chinese goods. This penal code should be set to 27.5 pst. in all Chinese goods. This was exposed, among others. a. because two U.S. senators were visiting and were promised that the Chinese would look again at the devaluation of the Yuan. When leading U.S. congressmen say that the yuan is undervalued by as much as 30 pst, it contrasts with that, for example. senior investment banks consider that it is only 10-15 pst. too cheap. If you look at the trade-weighted development of the yuan lately, it's actually increased by 10 pst. against a pinch of currencies. It can also be seen from the fact that the US dollar has remained relatively strong. Having said that, I believe that the discussion that is taking place in the United States now is, in fact, directly uninteresting. It can be seen that China’s growth, as the interpellant was also involved, is driven by trade and increased trade. China produces cheap goods, you trade more, you get more jobs, especially along the coast, and wealth increases. It can be seen that the greatest population migration in the history of the world is taking place in China right now. It goes from the Chinese countryside to the Chinese coast. But then the question is, what effect does this have on Norway? Cheaper goods are the immediate main effect. From 1998 until today, clothing and shoes have become 45 pst. cheaper in Norway. It is perhaps one of the largest things that have happened in relation to what money is spent on, for Norwegian consumers – and what is being spent significantly less money on today than was done for as short a time back as in 1998. A lower price increase is achieved in Norway — and in the United States — as a result, and, not least, lower interest rates. As long as the Norwegian central bank is just focusing on inflation targets, the development of wealth and trade in China will actually result in lower interest rates in Norway. While some people choose to focus on the immediate, with the loss of Norwegian jobs — or American for that matter — Right in this context chooses to look at the opportunities and positive benefits of long-term globalisation and increased prosperity in China. The representative from the Workers' Party stated that while more and more people are choosing to contract their ships from China, Norwegian equipment suppliers are increasingly selling equipment in China. Increased prosperity in China means increased prosperity in Norway. Increased trade also means increased wealth in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1428	China is a major political and economic power in growth. China has a culture and a history that is completely unique. In addition, when China is the leading regional player, increasingly with global implications, this makes China an important and interesting country for Norway – mainly due to this industrial cooperation, but also in other areas. The status today is that there is a significant trade and a significant industrial cooperation between China and Norway. Among other things, we know that imports of cheap goods from China have contributed to the low Norwegian price increase. At the same time, we know that there is also a significant supply and service stream on the other road. Not least in the maritime industry, there are many examples of positive business cooperation, both in business start-ups and in business development. It's probably a collaboration that has a great potential to grow further. We also know that Norwegian oil goes to China to a great extent. Now I understand that it is primarily on the spot market that they shop, and that makes the trade something cyclical. Fish are already called, and there's a significant proportion of fish going to China, not least for further processing. It says there's no longer a distance problem. China is an interesting country, but we also have to realize that there are quite a lot of differences between Norway and China. One of the differences and one of the challenges is that China has a huge number of hands. Employment is actually challenge No. 1 for China. This means that China will never – at least not in the foreseeable future – be able to compete with Norway in terms of rationalisation, efficiency and automation. We know that some Norwegian companies are very conscious of that. Another thing that separates China and Norway, goes on this with energy. Even if China is far ahead – they have ratified the Kyoto commitments – we know that there is still a good deal of dirty power in China, from coal-fired power stations, etc. But as far as I know, China is the country that is currently investing most in renewable energy. So things happen, but there's also something that separates us. Another thing that separates us -- and that's very important, and I'm glad that the Minister of Industry was already in the lead -- is that they have a completely different relationship with democracy and human rights in China than what we have in Norway, and that it's a big challenge for us in all our dealings with China. As we in the Christian People's Party see it, some of the main points of a Norwegian China strategy should be on an increased China competence in Norway when it comes to languages, social relations, culture, etc., but we may also need, in contrast, a stronger Norway profile in China than increasing knowledge of Norway in Chinese decision makers. I can only mention as an example: I've been to China a couple of times, and at a totally random meeting in a small café once, I was asked if I knew Jens Evensen. It was just after he died, so I could convey it, but the world is not so big. The Chinese also know better about Norway than what we've known from time to time. We also have the greatest potential for business development, business cooperation, business development, etc., including in the field of food security. We know that in Norway. Maybe there's something there, too, and not least when it's about nature management and the environment. Research and development is also an area in which, although very much done, there is a high potential in economic and technical disciplines, but also in greater width and depth, perhaps especially in the health and social field. I also found it very interesting that the Minister of Industry could confirm the development of a free trade agreement with China. It's topical, and it's a straight and positive track, as we see it. Finally, I would like to say that it is important for Norway that we develop our relationship with China in every way, both in terms of trade and in other areas. But a clear premise must be that, in all cooperation and in all contact with China, Norway must have a clear focus on the value and importance of democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1451	It has been said a lot in the Chamber today that China has been an increasingly important market for Norwegian companies and for Norwegian exports, and also that we in this country are recipients of Chinese products. I want to focus a little bit on the maritime industries, and especially the shipping industry, which is important in my area, More and Romesdal. In many ways, China has now taken over the role of Poland and the Baltic countries a few years ago in relation to the relationship with the maritime industry. It is today organized course in Chinese, course in Chinese custom and trade, etc. It turns out that China is well-received for goods that go on both high-tech hardware and high-tech technology. They're after us, especially in the size of the product. So when it comes to building boats in China, for example, they deliver the hull, while they depend entirely on getting Norwegian equipment. I wonder if there is a work going on from the Minister of Industry to soften what seems to be the biggest problem now in trade with China, the barriers to bureaucracy, and that everything takes so long. There is a lot left of the old communist when it comes to bureaucratic and time-use. It seems especially that it takes a long time if they're not sure that these are products that can't be created in China. Those who export report that there is a great difference between goods that they know cannot be created in China, and the goods that they are uncertain about. It must then be a task for the Norwegian Government to put in place some sort of agreement that makes it easy to identify such goods. The Minister of Industry said in a previous speech that there was a bilateral working group, as I understood it, and I wonder if the Government would then have intended to wait for this work before starting a closer work on a free trade agreement, or whether it would take up quite immediately. Because it seems to me that Chinese private individuals are very ready to be both involved in investing in and setting up businesses in China, and also to be involved in a relationship with Norwegian companies to get to a mutual trade, i.e. both imports and exports, which could be very complex for Norwegian industry. It will then be important for the Norwegian government to facilitate this, and for private people in China to be involved in that development and not to be stopped by bureaucracy. Then I'll also say a little about technology and research. I would very much hope that in spite of the trend we saw in the budgetary procedure, to which the current government parties are now happy to point, a cut in relation to proposals from the previous government, will nevertheless be a great and extensive bet on Norway's advance. Clearly, we see that it is going to go along with China as it has with Poland and the Baltic countries. Eventually they have the technology, and they take it easier than we've done, which has to fight it out on their own. They can learn from the technological innovation. We've got to get ahead of ourselves all the time. I would also like to encourage the Minister of Industry to think about these new markets, that we need to be in the forefront of regulation and technology in order to be able to take advantage, in a positive direction, of the large Chinese market as well, and that we can be involved in a positive development for this people who, in many ways, have been a foreign country for a long time. Then I will also join in what the representative of the Christian People's Party says, about international justice and democracy. It's awfully important that we point to the Norwegian values in all the conversations we're going to have with China, so that we don't go along with them when we're going to trade with China.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1468	Norway is a clear winner in the globalisation of world trade that has occurred in recent years. We are a small, open economy with significant exports and imports, and we benefit greatly from the exchange of goods and services. Norway has a high direct profit on the rise in production and trade on a global basis, both as an exporter of oil and gas and as a major shipping nation. Globalisation offers great opportunities both to sell goods and services and to buy increasingly better goods and services cheaper and cheaper. Globalisation is contributing to increased innovation and product development, thus increasing economic growth in all parts of the market. This is initially very positive, but globalisation also poses major challenges to Norwegian industry. Enterprises can experience globalisation and competition from China and other low-cost countries as demanding and, in some cases, the transition can become tough for employees, especially in labour-intensive industries, as mentioned by the Council of State in its intervention. I think it is important that enterprises and measures in business policy are oriented towards meeting the challenges and opportunities offensively, that is. be in the forefront of development and carry out continuous innovation and conversion work. I believe, however, that defensive rhetoric and possibly implementing a policy – if words are made into action – such as: The aim is to penalise the relocation of companies that the Government believes are profitable, a hopeless way to go and a completely wrong and defensive signal to send out. I believe that countries using such instruments have in no way succeeded better than Norway in terms of migration. On the contrary, companies should use low-cost land for what these are good in, and localise the activities we are good in here in Norway, to the home country. Only in this way will it be possible to maintain long-term competitiveness and secure jobs. I think there is reason to stress that a lot of traditional Norwegian business and industry are life-creating when it comes to increasing international competition. Many believe that industry is low-tech and easy-to-move. In many cases, there is an error ending. Norwegian industry is characterised to a greater extent by actors specialising in their fields, developing leading technologies, products and production processes, and thus being competitive in a globalised world. I believe that measures that can contribute to technology development and initial investment in Norwegian industry must be one of the most effective Governments and the Minister of Industry can take action to strengthen Norwegian jobs. It is therefore serious that we have received a government that started work in the field of industrial policy to reject perhaps the most effective tool for ensuring innovation and technology development, namely to improve the tax conditions for initial investment in machinery in industry. Through the government cut in the depreciation rates for machine investment compared to the original budget proposal, the total investment costs after tax increase by DKK 1.6 billion per year. the year in which the industry operates. On the other hand, increased depreciation rates make it more attractive to reinvest in machinery and in new technologies in Norway. These are investments that are crucial to being ahead of technology, thus maintaining high activity and high employment in industry. I would also like to stress that many of the other changes to the budget made by the Government after a few weeks of proceedings are going in the wrong direction with regard to the challenges and opportunities of globalisation. As examples, I can mention these points: A cut of DKK 25 billion in the funding of the Research Fund reduces the long-term investment in research.Increased wealth tax limits the access to capital in Norwegian enterprises and thus the possibility of initial investment. The same applies to increased dividend taxes and lower depreciation rates, as I mentioned earlier. Cuts in the appropriations for Innovation Norway and SIVA also go in the wrong direction. While the Minister of Industry acknowledges in his speech that globalisation is giving us new opportunities and new challenges, we must therefore note that the government in practical action is giving business and jobs a lower starting point in terms of globalization of world trade. Econ Report 87/2001, ‘Norwegian Import Protection’, provides an interesting analysis and is a good example of how Norway serves globalisation. The benefits of increased imports of clothing from China are estimated to be DKK 13 billion for Norwegian consumers in the period 1995–2001. However, the provenance effect of the reduced rates of duty opened to this effect was only 200 million. kr. This type of import gain increases the economic efficiency of Norwegian consumers and results in lower inflationary pressures on the Norwegian economy – and thus lower pressures on interest rates and exchange rates. Finally, I want to follow up on what Gullvåg said in his post. He mentioned the need for competitive framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers and for Norwegian shipping industries. To this end, it would be interesting to have the Council of State and the Government’s assessment of the need for a more competitive shipping tax system in Norway. It should be a simple question to answer if we are to take the wording of the Soria Moria declaration seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1507	Let me first mention the positive. It is positive that there is not a call for protectionism and protection of the Norwegian market in Norway, but rather a focus on the opportunities that the Chinese market can give us. It is also gratifying that the parties involved in the debate agree on the description of the opportunities available to Norway and to our companies, but also on the challenges facing them. At best, it's a start. What I miss from the Council of State after hearing two articles is what is the Government's overall and concrete China strategy. Individual elements and actions are not a strategy. We have not heard anything about the government's strategy to improve the ability of Norway and our companies to deal with competition – in other words, increased investment in research, development, innovation and knowledge. Rather, reference is made to the 2006 budget, which was in reality a shaving of very many good proposals from the previous government. Let's look forward to it. What is the Government's strategy for managing competition? What is the Government's concrete and comprehensive China strategy on how to develop and exploit opportunities in the Chinese market? I am pleased that the Government has the ambition to follow up the initiative of the previous government to enter into a free trade agreement with EFTA. It is nice that the current Minister of Industry boasts of the former Minister of Industry, but what is this government's position? What will this government do to make progress in establishing a free trade agreement with China, a free trade agreement which, hopefully, could cover all EFTA countries? What is the strategy for closer cooperation in research, energy, shipyards and seafood? We are, I feel, in the start-up pit, but it is important that the Government – almost speaking – ‘come out of the closet’ and present its policy, its strategy, in order to succeed in the Chinese market. If the government has such a strategy, it would have been nice to hear about this on the tap. If not, I hope that this debate can be an inspiration to develop a strategy so that we can succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1520	Finally, let me thank you again for a good debate and say that I appreciate the fact that the representative Sanner addresses important questions for Norwegian business. I'm going to try to confirm the specific question that was raised about piracy. I can confirm that this is a problem that it's important to take seriously, and we're dealing with this with the Chinese authorities. It turns out that the Chinese authorities are also taking this seriously since they have now established this special court. It is also the case that the WTO is an important instrument for achieving a fair international trade regime. It's an important contribution in this way. As I have said, we deal with Chinese authorities on a regular basis. An example of this is that the former government took up with Chinese authorities what was experienced with piracy in relation to Jordan. The reaction that came as a result of this was that this product was stopped. It shows that it's useful to deal with problems, and we'll do it in the future as well. So some specific areas of activity: we focus on getting more tourists to Norway. I will actively follow up the recently concluded visa agreement for Chinese tourists. Innovation Norway has strengthened its presence in China with its own travel life broadcast, and we already see concrete results from this. China's strong economic growth provides opportunities for Norwegian shipping. It has led to an increase in bulk, tank and container cargo for Norwegian ships, and we expect continued growth. In 2004, there were over 1,000 Chinese seafarers on Norwegian ships, and demand is increasing. This means that we have several cooperation projects to train Chinese seafarers. Our trade with China continues to include new areas. China has a moon landing target in 2017, and through the European Space Agency ESA, Norway has several cooperation projects with China. China already has two satellites with Norwegian instruments on board. Norwegian researchers have also been involved in these projects. Norwegian research has a lot to gain from cooperating with China. Norway’s Research Council and Innovation Norway work with the research communities to strengthen and extend this cooperation. Today, cooperation projects have been established in marine disciplines, health, medicine and biological subjects, ICT, architecture and construction technology. There is a lot of positive happening in trade between Norway and China. We're going to build on this. I can also confirm that I look forward to the fact that the Right will also gradually contribute positively to policy development in this area, which is so incredibly important for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1545	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1598	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Right and the Left A proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary changes to the Norwegian tax-free quota, inter alia. shall be determined as follows:1 litre of spirits or 2 litres of intermediate class products, 2 litres of wine and without limit of beer and snuff provided that the amount limit is not exceeded.The change shall be applied as soon as and no later than 1 May 2006. This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1635	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government to make the necessary changes so that the Norwegian duty-free import quota for alcohol is more flexible within today’s total volume of alcohol.’ The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1656	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Gærmund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left motion No. 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party The proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the authorities to instruct the Equations Offices to base complaints on Equations Fees for other real estate, the same treatment that now applies to dwellings and recreational dwellings, namely that the Equations Fee may not exceed 30 pst. of the technical value of the property or observable market value.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1687	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the authorities to instruct the Equations Offices to base complaints on Equations tariffs on other land in agriculture and forestry, the same treatment as is currently applied to dwellings and recreational dwellings, namely that the Equation Tariff may not exceed 30 pst. of the technical value of the property or observable market value.» The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they will now support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1705	President! I would assume that it would be useful for us to try again with voting. There's something happening here...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1714	The representative may be right about that. Does the Stortinge agree that we should vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1726	It's obvious that it had something to vote on again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1745	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-04.ana.ud606e1756	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
