ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e70	The representative Vera Lightcloth, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The designated alternate of the district of Akershus, Cathrin Bretzeg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e92	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e103	Once the framework for the defence budget has been established in the past, this suspension does not reflect the real points of view of this defence budget. The reality is that the budget has fallen by 366 million. kr in relation to the budget for this year. This, of course, is not a dramatic amount in the short term, but it is nevertheless important because it confirms that the budget is in a weak downward spiral. I believe that the time had now come to break this trend, and would have wanted the Storting to have adopted the increase that Right has stood for, namely 375 million. kr. It is true that for years now there has been agreement between the parties that constituted the Bondevik government and the Workers' Party, but this time we are separating layers. We'll see what the consequences are. The government explains in its draft budget that we need to prepare for the necessary material investment to be pushed out of this four-year period. The fact that there has been a broad consensus on the long-term programme and on the level of the budget is valuable and something we should seek to maintain. By the 2007 budget, we are in the third of the fourth year of this long-term programme, and that means that the debate on how the next programme should be is, of course, in full swing. However, what the Biggest must focus on now is how to implement what has already been agreed upon. So there's a couple of things I think it's important to establish. One is that the changes the defense has undergone for several years now have gradually produced good results. And if we look around us, we'll see important things, like that new vessels are about to phase into the Maritime Defense. We see the very strong quality increase that has come to the Home Office, and we see how the Coast Guard has been built up over the years now to be able to provide ever better services. And this is just three of the examples. So when it comes to implementation, it is also important to keep the level of funding – and I will, just to make it clear, be the first to admit that the government I was in, too, is not quite able to keep this level of funding. We were marginally below, even though what we see now, is to be significantly below that level again. What concerns us, however, is that we are not only $0.8 billion below the average we should be on, but also that the government is now informing us that we are now falling behind in the conversions of $0.6 billion. So it's going to come up with the marginal lag that I just mentioned. We also know that the defence that we have is not entirely advanced in balancing, and that means that in the next planning period we have to make sure that we have a full balance between appropriations and structure. It is true that this imbalance never poses any significant problems in the short term, but it is clear that when it continues, it must cause significant problems at some point. We have to remember that even in the short term, it's the fighting ability it's going to go beyond. The fact that the government announces that material purchases are being pushed out of the planning period, I think it's serious – I just want to mention that it's just at this point that I think the budget should be strengthened, that's where we would put in the increases if we had adopted this. I have also noticed that the Government in reply to the committee says: ‘However, with a continuation of the current budgetary level, it will not be possible to continue the adopted defence structure in the longer term, not least in the light of the need to restore several of the defence’s material systems reaching the end of its technical and operational life span for the period 2010-2020.’;» It tells us how demanding the process we're going to be going into is. We are faced with three choices: either to increase the appropriations, to reduce the structure or to allow the defence to be confused – the last of which is probably the worst solution. The fact that the debate is already underway is important and joyful – although I think it is appropriate to confuse that we now have two parallel investigations, one that the head of defence stands for, and then the political one. That means that the phase that comes after these two investigations have been presented becomes very important. Therefore, it is necessary to give enough time. One of the most important messages that the Committee gives in its position, which is also unanimous, is that if it is possible for the Storting to have enough time to create the new broad majority that I hope you will have in the next planning period, we will have to get the Government's proposal early in the autumn of 2008. I would like to stress that. And that's not to make the work difficult for the ministry. I am aware that the Department also has very little time in terms of the position to be put forward by the Committee on Defence Policy, and the need for the Stortinget to carry out its work properly. Should it be possible for the Storting to do its work properly, we have to have as much time as we here suggest. That this phase will be difficult, I don't think there's any particular doubt about it. The structure is now so small that you have to prepare to go the other way economically as well. In this way, it is problematic that the Government has now further reduced the defence budget. The fact that some people spend a lot of time in the public debate telling what not to do is really just an exercise in building heights – and it's always fascinating to see politicians do it. At some point, the moment of truth comes – and so it comes in the spring of 2008. So a couple of edge comments. One is that I am happy that the Government, despite the reduction that has occurred, is following the plans to build up the army. I'd like to compliment you on that. I think it's important and necessary to do this. The second is that I am also pleased to note that we have now found financial space for the necessary flight hours for the air defence. It was of the concerns I had in the budget last year. This is now settled, even though the government is a little in doubt if it will be able to deliver in full. I understand the problem, but hope that it will be possible to do so. I think it's crucial that we have the necessary flight hours. I'm not going to go deep into the issue of the acquisition of new fighter aircraft, a question that is still part of the public debate. I just want to stress that it is absolutely necessary that we have a clean acquisition plan here, that the government is in the driver's seat in such a difficult case. And then it's my devout hope that we can eventually get the public debate on what kind of fighter planes we need, that it's not just everyone else – in and of course relevant – consideration that's mentioned. If the fighter planes are equivalent, we can focus more on the other questions. If that's not the case, we're in a completely different situation, where the focus might be different from what it's been so far. So a third point, which I just want to mention in the past, that is the bet on the north areas, which I think is excellent. I have noticed that the government has now put forward its broader North Region bet, without creating the very big headlines – perhaps something more sober this year than last year. It underscores one important thing: once the government has tried to tell us that it has in many ways invented the Northern Region bet, it has now been found that it is not. That's good. Finally, I just want to mention that the Committee has been very concerned that those who have served in international operations are being properly treated. We know there have been some problems. I think we can say that we have made good progress in this area, but the Committee has in no way left this issue behind. It will be a very important issue for us even in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e153	When the Right Leader, Erna Solberg, is surprised that there is an imbalance between the structure and the level of resources in the Defence, and when the representative Petersen – after the budget has been presented – says that this is the moment of truth, it appears to us who have followed for a while, as something wonderful, perhaps very wonderful. As early as 2000, when the then Chief of Defense, Frisvold, presented the 2000 Defence Study, he drew attention to issues that are completely parallel to those of today’s Chief of Defense. Then the situation was acute – now we have a longer-term challenge. Right came into government, where both Petersen and Solberg sat for four years. They really had an opportunity to create a strong and sustainable defence. They even said to increase the appropriations in the budget for 2004 and 2005. It didn't happen. The representative Petersen thinks it's the 275 million. kr Right now adds to next year's budget, which is crucial for whether or not we suddenly have a crisis in defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e160	The answer to that is a clear no. What we have said, however, is that very many – I think I also stressed it in my post – are responsible for the fact that there has been a weak downward spiral. We think that the government in many ways now reinforces this problem. We just want to suggest that the bottom should now be reached. Now the arrow should point up again. I mentioned the moments of truth -- I think I mentioned the spring of 2008. That's when we're going to get the next long-term program going. I think it's very important to be aware that we have to make the arrow point up again. I'm not going to use stronger rhetoric than necessary in this area, but on the other hand, I would like to stress that it is necessary to let action follow words. That is what we have done in this draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e171	Jan Petersen described a quality improvement of the defense. I totally disagree with that description. I understand why he does it, because he has just sat in a government that believes you have continued and raised the quality of the Defense. In my opinion, the quality of the defense has only gone down. He went on to say that the government has brought the budget down further. It just describes that he probably did not think that his own government had a defence budget that was something special to boast about. Jan Petersen also pointed out that it is positive that the Army now gets its – to say so – and that it is being rebuilt again. I fully agree with that. On the basis of that description, I think it is a little strange that the Right does not propose more than 300 million. kr to raise the defence budget. I wonder if it contributes to e.g. to increase the quality of the Army, whether it contributes, as he said, to the purchase of new material and whether it otherwise contributes to further enhancing the quality of the other defence sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e178	Where we wanted to spend this money, clearly, on equipment and on new investments in Defence. We think it's necessary to just contribute to the transition that we're already doing well. That Width does not see the positive effects of that conversion, surprises me, because I thought his contact with the Defense was so extensive that he had brought it with him. Among other things, the fact that we are now about to phase in new frigates, and that we have got a quality boost in the Coast Guard, I also think he should be pleased, but I understand that he does not. With regard to the economy, the reality is that the Right – unlike the Advance Party – operates within a realistic economic framework. The propulsion party operates outside of this. That's why it's all going to be a paper exercise. I noticed with great interest that when we negotiated with the Progress Party on Economics, the defence never reached its own priorities. If the Advance Party once came into a government situation, one would of course have to operate in the world of reality, but it's a bit ahead of you.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e185	The leaders of the Committee are quite right when he says that there is a consensual committee which is concerned and which thus creates alternatives: increasing the permissions, risking the defence to be confused or cutting off further in the structure. We know the Chief of Defense gave a lecture in the fall of Oslo Military Society. There was a bit of a wedding, because he forgot to bring the northern regions in that context. But my point is that what he said in his speech the year before was that we're in a situation where we have political undermining of military domination. This can lead us into a situation where one should think: Can a process create a process that helps the defence better to save in, a process that divides tasks with other countries to a greater extent, so that we not only get security benefits, but also economic effects of alliance cooperation? Does the leader of the committee see that there may be even more places where one can cut costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e192	I think the wording should be to say that you have to streamline the use of the money you have, because that's really what this is about. And at that point I'm worried, because the government that Jacobsen supports is $0.6 billion on the form to get to the necessary conversions. So some of the most reasonable thing would be if you got the pace up on what's necessary to do, and there's Jacobsen more responsible than I am. Otherwise, it's clear that in the next period – and as I mentioned, the moment of truth comes in spring 2008 – it's necessary to do a lot of things in parallel, and it's important to get a complete balance. Now it has to stop pushing things in front of it. I think that will be a challenge for the politicians. It also means that those who participate in the public debate for a year to come should not, above all, shoot down all the test balloons that are coming. They should, on the contrary, let them be sent up, and then take all of them into account when we get to spring 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e199	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e203	The government follows up the Soria Moria statement by granting NOK 31 billion to the Defense in 2007. Thus, a high level of defence budget is maintained. All the gloomy predictions that there was going to be low defence budgets from a red-green government where SV was present are thus made to shame. Yes, even the worst critics before the budget was presented were completely silent when the budget came. This can only be seen as a good budget. The opposition cracks in all directions. The Progress Party will increase the budget by SEK 1.5 billion, the Right has actually increased by SEK 275 million. kr, while the Christian People's Party and the Left on the other hand have cut respectively 257 million. SEK and 220 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. That's why there might be reason to ask the question if not a bourgeois government had landed about where we are today. A new and more complex threat image requires a flexible defence with the ability to handle a wide range of different tasks. Today’s safety challenges are less than previously linked to traditional military threats, while the potential for terrorist attacks, major environmental and natural disasters or major accidents in different sectors of society has increased. It is therefore important to work for a comprehensive security policy, for enhanced social security and for a good balance between military and civil protection. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee agrees that Norwegian security is best ensured by our contribution to peace, security and stability, both globally and in Norwegian neighbourhoods. This means that our defence must have operational personnel available to respond to crises, conflict and war, both outdoors and at home. The defence must safeguard our national security and safeguard our territorial sovereignty. At the same time, Norway, as a rich country, must contribute to peace and security internationally. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, therefore considers that it is in Norwegian interest to have a United Nations-led world order, and subscribes to the Government's emphasis on strengthening both the role of the United Nations as a global player and the role of NATO as a guarantor of collective security. The non-participation of the Advancement Party must be best described as an eye-catching. Nevertheless, it is in fact a wider majority than ever in the United Kingdom who now have a united and responsible view of our defence and security policy, but I wonder again that the Progress Party chooses to stand entirely on the sideline. The government's 2007 budget proposal facilitates the achievement of the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. The defence must be more than at present directed towards enforcing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our seas, especially in the north. The presence of the defence shall be maintained at a high level in North Norway. At the same time, it shall facilitate increased participation in international operations anchored in a clear and unambiguous UN mandate or other recognised international legal basis. Through this budget, we have managed both to strengthen operational activities and to safeguard investments that form the basis for the modernisation of the defence that is now taking place. The Government follows up the current long-term defence plan by giving priority to departments that cover a wide range of tasks and have a high level of response and availability. This is done by strengthening the operational activities of the Army, the Maritime Defense, the Air Force, the Home Guard, the Coast Guard and the Intelligence Service together with more than 500 million. kr. This strengthening will increase the activity of Defence in the northern regions, increase Norway’s ability to participate in international operations and continue the modernisation of Defence. As far as participation in international operations is concerned, the ISAF strength will be the main effort for our military engagement abroad, including in 2007. In addition, we have a clear ambition to strengthen Norway's participation in UN-led peace-keeping operations, among others. through our contribution to the strength of four MTBs in the enlarged UN force in Lebanon. We are preparing to contribute a robust engineering and transport company to a possible UN peace operation in Darfur. The working party is very satisfied that the Government establishes a principle that additional costs related to unplanned operations must be based on additional funding. As the situation in Lebanon showed us this summer, we live in an uncertain world where there will always be a risk that Norway will have to participate internationally at short notice, without this being planned. For most, it is also obvious that it is not possible to budget for such unexpected crises and associated operations. For this reason, the principle of additional funding is very important, so that the defence is given the necessary freedom of action to participate in such operations in the future without entailing reductions within the adopted budget. I would also like to remind you that additional funding for foreign operations was common practice in Stortinget until 2002. The number of protected persons is maintained at the 2006 level, and the call for voluntary sessions in 2007 facilitates the increase of the female share in the initial service. It is also good that the fee has been proposed increased by NOK 2 100, to a total of NOK 23 000, for crew members who have completed the first 12 months of service. The government is busy getting more women in Defense. In the case of women in defence, it is worth noting that the budgetary position shows – again with the exception of the members of the Progress Party – that the defence today only has about 7 pst. women among women in command and occupation, but that the objective is to achieve 15 pst during 2008. The majority believe that more women in Defense will make Defense even better, and therefore emphasise that it is satisfied that the Government is taking the initiative to set up a sample that can look at and propose instruments to achieve a higher proportion of women in Defence. But again, the party of progress is not included. The defense is in big changes. The material investment budget for 2007 makes it possible to continue the modernisation process. The main bet is within marine battle systems, with emphasis on new frigates, new Skjold class missile torpedo boats, helicopter for coastguard and patrol aircraft. Within the rural strengths, it will be invested in armoured vehicles and a number of smaller but necessary categories of equipment for the soldiers. Within the air forces, new short-haul missiles for fighter aircraft are being invested and an upgrade of F-16 is being made. The acquisition of future fighter aircraft has been a hot topic in the media lately. I would like to point out that the Storting in the adjustment to the long-term plan decided that the creation of new fighter aircraft would be prepared by the Government. In St. prp. No 1 also explains how this work is going on. As we can see, there is no final decision here on our future national fighter aircraft capacity, and I am pleased that there will now be a real competition between the three candidates concerned. After all that has been said positively, it is also important to stress that we are facing significant challenges in terms of defence in the coming years. In the long term, we cannot live up to the structural challenges of defence, with the imbalance between structure and appropriations that have existed for many years. This will confront us with the options to cut further in the structure, to increase the appropriations or to risk the defence being weathered in the long term. I will not prejudge the solution to the structural challenges of defence, but I would like to stress that the main objective of the Workers' Party is that there should be consistency between the structure of defence, tasks and the agreed framework. We will return to this in the new long-term plan in spring 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e245	The representative from the Workers' Party spoke warmly about foreign operations. I support that. But how does the Workers' Party intend to send special forces to South Afghanistan? Chieftains in Afghanistan are calling for good special forces to be able to maneuver the Taliban during the winter and end the unworthy war. Meanwhile, soldiers die every day at the front because the other NATO countries do not contribute enough to strengthen this front. We have special forces who are in principle waiting to be sent by farms, special forces that are especially wanted because they are capable and suitable in this terrain where warfare takes place. How does the Workers' Party intend to send special forces to South Afghanistan to end this unworthy war?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e254	The Labour Party believes that if we are to win the war in Afghanistan, there are many things that need to be done. It's not just winning the military game. We must also win the favor of the Afghans. We need to make them understand that if civil action is taken, humanitarian aid is provided, and the Karzai government helps to gain the power and recognition it needs, we will sooner reach the goal of winning the war in Afghanistan. We have a lot of soldiers, over 500, in Afghanistan today. We don't have any restrictions on sending soldiers to the south, but at last we evaluated the overall situation so that we would stick to what we have in the north, and not go to the step of sending more soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e261	It is tempting to interfere in the last debate. I'm not going to do that, except to encourage the Workers' Party to resume the management of that kind of issue in the Government. My question now is about the defence budget itself. Not unexpectedly, Signe Eye was very pleased with the state of things. However, the question is whether she is not also concerned that the Government announces that the necessary investments are now being pushed out of the planning period. I can see nothing but that it must be problematic. I'm also a little surprised that she describes the budget level as high. It's a fact that we still have a sub-balance in approx. 5-billion dollar class. Does that mean that she sees as the most likely scenario that we are now pulling down the structure considerably to get balance? Or could she also be involved in what we've started, namely trying carefully to get the arrows to point up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e270	The Workers' Party shall contribute to bringing together the structure, investment and financial frameworks that we will have in the Defence in the years to come. As I said in my post, we will come back to it when we present the long-term plan. I am also pleased that we now have a defence budget which means that we have NOK 31 billion in 2007. It's not like you're pushing at a lot of things. You can actually release funds. In 2005 and 2006, SEK 1.5 billion has been released, which is spent on investments and to the pointed end. But we're not on target. We also believe that if we implement the long-term plan that we are now in, we will achieve the goals that we have set ourselves together with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e277	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e280	The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. Furthermore, the nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to different threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a basic defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere. North Norway is a bet area, states the Government of Soria Moria Declaration. That's not true, at least not in terms of defence. So far we've seen little or nothing about it. It disappoints some, not least the population of North Norway. With the submitted draft budget by the Government and the dark predictions by the head of defence about restrictions and closures, there is no doubt that North Norway will be affected to the greatest extent. Our security policy situation can become complex in view of our geopolitical and resource situation. In recent years, large and valuable deposits of oil and gas have been discovered in the major sea areas that are our responsibility – in addition to the rich fisheries bodies. Unexplained border conditions increase the risk of conflicts and crises. Our presence in the northern regions, including Finnmark, is therefore of the utmost importance. The government's draft budget is therefore very disappointing. Bilateral strengthening agreements constitute an important security and defence policy cornerstone for Norway. It is particularly important to further develop the strategic partnership with the United States. Norway, as a nation, must therefore contribute to the need to handle relations, not least with the United States, in a way that strengthens the ties. The Progress Party will also point to the importance of finding credible defence policy cooperation with the EU. The Progress Party is keenly concerned that Norway should be able to have as far as possible a defence with the widest possible anchoring of the population, and considers that it is best ensured by a defence of protection. It is important to stimulate the widest possible implementation of the first-time service and the meaningfulness of the first-time service. Signs may indicate that a voluntary session for women can produce good results and may be able to secure more women's sheltered soldiers and more women who could imagine a future in Defense. The biggest challenge for long-term preservation of women is enough here at Defense itself. Here the defense has an important job to do. I also hope that this will help to dampen the quota assets of the Workers' Party. In addition, the number of protected persons is now at a level that can almost be characterised as irresponsible. Defence personnel, both military and civilian, must be guaranteed predictability. It's not like that today. With the defence budget presented by the Government, and with the consequences pointed out by the head of defence, the defence personnel are re-entering an uncertainty period. We must not forget that the greatest single factor in the defense is the personnel. The Progress Party believes that we need military presence in different parts of the country, taking into account both strategic values and securing the anchoring of the continuation of popular defence. The Progress Party wants to establish a foreign budget where the large acquisitions of the Defence are made outside Norway’s borders, so that this does not affect ordinary investment budgets. The Progress Party sees it as natural that future large material acquisitions from abroad are financed in this way. We therefore want to grant NOK 2 billion for the purchase of military material in this foreign budget. The army today counts 5,600 people and is heavily influenced by conversion from invasion defence to mobile and smaller, but sharp units. The Advance Party is committed to restoring the predictability of the Army in its budgets so that the mandates imposed can be resolved. The budgets of recent years have just undermined this. In order to maintain a credible defence with the challenges facing the Army, this must be put in place. While there is a clear turn towards greater focus in the north, this requires a significantly greater presence in North Norway, including Finmark. In order to ensure this, the Army must be given the means to have the necessary structure in the northern regions. The advance party therefore wants to increase the transfer to the pointed end of the Army by 472 million. kr. The defence is, as is well known, in the process of introducing new frigates and MTBs. At the same time, the use of vessels in international operations is becoming increasingly important. Similarly, the Progress Party is very concerned that the presence of the Navy in the northern regions needs to be strengthened significantly. This leads to high standards of competence, flexibility and materiality. We therefore believe it is necessary to strengthen the operational budget so that the challenges can be addressed in a sensible way. With the challenges facing maritime defence, including, inter alia: training crews of the ever-growing fleet, the Progress Party wishes to increase the operational budget by 380 million. kr. However, it is worrying that the Marine’s impact for many years to come will be very low. Among other things, less than half of the original MTB fleet is operational. Air defence is in the situation that aeroplanes and crews are widely used in foreign operations. At the same time, it is important for safety policy reasons to have an operational flight force on Norwegian soils. The progress party therefore wants to go to the purchase of new aircraft as soon as possible to replace the ageing fleet we have. We are also concerned that the three operators involved in the acquisition of new fighter aircraft are treated equally. In our opinion, the development and cooperation agreement with Lockheed Martin in connection with the JSF aircraft did not provide satisfactory results for the Norwegian industry. The Progress Party therefore wishes to terminate the agreement with the annual large payments. We therefore propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to equate the development contracts between Norway and the three tenderers concerned. Therefore, as the purchase of new fighter aircraft requires large counts, the Progress Party proposes that the consequences of shared purchases of new fighter aircraft be investigated. The defence also needs a great deal of new transport aircraft, and I would like to refer to the previous proposal by the Progress Party to provide this capacity. In this context, it is also important to ensure the interest of the Norwegian industry. Norway, together with other NATO countries, is going to acquire some C-17 transport aircraft, but the need for its own transport aircraft will undoubtedly continue to be the same. The need for new surveillance aircraft is also very great. This capacity is critical for the monitoring of Norwegian waters and territories. We therefore ask the Stortinget to ask the Government to produce a state report both for our transport and surveillance aircraft, and that the Government submit a plan for the acquisition of new aircraft. The operating budget with all the air defence challenges will therefore be proposed to increase by 160 million. kr. Home security is facing major challenges and reorganisations. New material and time training needs to be taken into account in the budgets, and the Progress Party therefore wants to strengthen the operational budget by 50 million. kr. We see a clear need to improve the presence of the Coast Guard along our long-distance coast. There has been a negative trend in the number of days sailing in recent years, which is negative in terms of enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty, especially in the north. We believe that more money needs to be allocated for operations, and therefore we want to strengthen the Coast Guard operating budget by 110 million. kr. The Progress Party agrees that participation in multinational military operations is a central element of our defence and security policy. We therefore believe that it is important that funding is clarified before the tasks are undertaken. Otherwise it could have consequences for the mother departments of the current forces at home. We therefore see the need to increase the operating budget for foreign operations by 30 million. kr. Finally, I would like to refer to the alternative budget of the Progress Party and at the same time to the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e316	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e321	In the budget position, the majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, shows that the defence today has about 7 p.m. women among women in command and responsibilities, but that the target is to be 15 pst during 2008. women. The majority believe that more women in defence will make defence even better, and therefore emphasise that it is satisfied that the Government has taken the initiative to set up a sample to look at and propose measures to achieve a higher female share. Why does the party of progress not want to join such a formulation? What does the Progress Party actually think about women's place in Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e328	In my post, I think I just said a lot about women in the defense. We need women in Defense. The goal of a higher proportion of women has been quite a long time, but nothing has benefited so far. That now a sample should be reduced to look at this, is well for n-th time, I think. We don't have much faith in exactly that kind of initiative. We believe, on the other hand, that the system that has been set up for voluntary women's sitting seems to work, but at the same time the responsibility lies with the Defense itself. That's where the responsibility lies. They have to do something about this to keep the women. So far there are many women who have been willing to go into the defense, among other things. to train well, but they haven't been there. Then there must be something wrong with the defense as such, and I think they are now about to see and will fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e338	I guess I've reached the stage of my career that I'm starting to care about history. I have a question about the close story. I have many times rejoiced that Per Ove Width speaks strongly in favour of the needs of the defense. But now, in three of the four budgetary procedures of the Bondevik Government, the Progress Party affected the budget and turned to billions in this budget. When I remember Width's rhetoric, the question is, how did it happen that the Progress Party never prioritised the defence in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e345	It's interesting that Jan Petersen has come at the age of so much interest in history. But if you're going to look at the future of Defense, I don't think it's the story that counts. I think that's what we're thinking now, and how we're looking forward to it. That in negotiations with the government parties in the historical phase pointed to by Jan Petersen, we were not willing to give priority to the defense, I'm sure, to the right. But Petersen knows very well that in negotiations you have to give and take. It was not the first priority for the Progress Party to grant so little money, I would say, as we did at the time in these negotiations, but it was under strong pressure from the government parties, who then obviously wanted to have a low defence budget. So we had to give it up and go back to other areas. But I hope today's draft budget can work on Petersen so that in the future he can tell some better stories than the one he came with now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e352	A group committee, all without the Progress Party, agrees that Norway is well-tied to have a United Nations-led world order. We see that things are changing in the United States too, which the Progress Party often devotes itself to and supports about. Bill Clinton talks about climate change, including many others in the United States. The Progress Party has also seen the climate noise. Why does the Progress Party not also see that the UN can contribute and be the world order we should support when we see the United Nations succeed. We are happy in Iraq. UN weapons inspectors removed 97 pst. by weapons in Iraq. We also know that the UN is successful in Lebanon in military terms, and they are perhaps most fortunate to say that it is not the military contributions that are best. But if the United Nations is able to support politically what is going on, it has proved to be a new peace operator. So a user does not use military measures unnecessarily, but one is present to support political processes. We also know that our Prime Minister is involved in major UN reforms. Why can't the Progress Party also regard the UN as the most important peace operator and the main peace forum for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e361	I do not entirely agree with the description of the representative. The Group of the European People's Party does not believe that the UN has contributed to such an extent to peace, as described here. We believe that the UN has failed in many respects. On the other hand, we are a keen supporter of NATO and believe that NATO needs to deal with the military operations to a large extent. That the U.N. can afterwards come and deal with the humanitarian operations, I do not disagree. That's what they're suitable for. When we're not involved in this comment, it's because we have our own comment on this. Another thing is that we think it seems a little too pompous to talk about a United Nations-led world order. Now what is that? This unambiguous UN mandate I do not think has the effect that the representative would like to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e370	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e373	We are presenting today a defence budget of NOK 31 billion. We should sometimes ask ourselves the question: is this going to those who really need it the most? Is it so that taxpayers' money goes to the civil out there in the world that they want freedom from fear? Can we think of that? I myself was 14 days ago in Chechnya, where, for the past 10–15 years, it has undoubtedly been an excess of military assets. We could travel there as part of the Fact-Finding Commission of the Council of Europe only by means of special forces from the Russian army, the Alfa Group Special Forces Unit. I'd like to decorate them, and we'll do it. They were the only ones who made it possible for us to be there. We were totally dependent on the security they could deliver. This, in turn, led to the fact that when we were in Grosny and we were going to talk to people about human rights violations, about the missing state of law, etc., could we believe that the voluntary organizations we met there, at all events, would talk to us when we were surrounded by so many military forces? That's the big question we always have to ask ourselves: is this relative to the threats when we spend so much money on the military, or can it itself be a problem when, in my opinion, we have excessive consumption of military assets in the world? Now we allow a lot – and perhaps more and more – of international operations. We have it as a primary goal, while we have the north as a primary goal. In North Norway, there is talk of one losing many bases and losing a lot of structure, and one was even more afraid when the head of defense said that it could go with 10–15 bases. I have told the northern countries that they must stop defining North Norway as a district policy area, because the northern regions are one of the most important areas of activity at national level. One may like it or not, but North Norway is in the north. Then there must also be base structures that are relative to the threat image and the tasks we're going to solve in the north. So to the other major area we're working on -- international operations. How do we make them work? How can we defend them both at home and outside? To clarify this, I want to tell a story from Turkey, which is a NATO country, where the inhabitants of two villages a few years ago had to move. They had to flee. They moved to England, to another NATO country. Their security was believed, they were not safe in Turkey – with all the means a user in Turkey on military assets. We know that we've had a Norwegian weapons boycott by Turkey, precisely because of major human rights violations. The inhabitants of these two villages, these 100 people, live today in England, and they can even afford to go home and clean up their old houses a little. However, villages are in practice not in any other function than as holiday homes. All these billions we spend on military assets, they didn't apply to them. The funds were not for them, in their own home country, in their own NATO countries. If we want, we can transform international operations in a way that gets support and trust from the people we want to help, and from the opinion at home. This is not easy to get, but the first thing to do is follow some of the higher international paths. We have the genocide in Rwanda and the massacres in Szebrenica that got the UN to start a work that challenges the sovereignty of the states, saying that the right of international law to intervene is being redefined as a responsibility to protect. This is something that goes hand in hand with freedom from fear, which is the first military settlement. Canada was the country that got the report ‘Responsibility to Protect’ and he relies on six criteria for military intervention. In one of these points, the scope, duration and intensity should be as low as possible to ensure the objective of human protection. In another point, it is said that it must be probable that an international intervention will not make any worse. I believe that this work may also be a guide to conflicts already in progress that have come to an end. First of all, I'd say there can't be a war of action that's going on. The truth is, more people are recruited to the enemy, and civilians are killed in heaps. International law must be followed, and e.g. of course, the bilateral agreement between Norway and Afghanistan on the treatment of prisoners must apply to all NATO countries and to all countries to be present in Afghanistan. One must be able to free oneself from the debt that there are inherent geostrategic interests, or that there are natural resources that you are looking for – in order to be trusted in their honest goals and to make it probable that it is really the welfare of the civilian population and to choose a job for. In Afghanistan it is now that if we are there, the enemy will recruit more, and if we are not there, the danger of civil war is great. Then we have to get the debate on what kind of way we're going to be there. That's what can show the way forward. Human rights, the rule of law, anti-corruption work, etc. is just a few strings. In the UN, we talk about different UN agencies joining forces in each country – as an important part of the reform process. This is the enormous challenge we face, for example. in Afghanistan, where military and civil operations must at least be subject to a comprehensive plan to achieve a national construction target. Then we have aid organisations, private and state doctors, who are going to co-operate with voluntary organisations and government agencies. As if not all this was enough, different national processes need to be started. In many respects, there are coexistence processes and human rights violations that have found their place, national mourning after power and war, and last, but not least, political processes in which people are taken in. When one hears from many people that there is too little money being spent on military decisions, we should occasionally be able to send the ball back and ask, "What about the follow-up to the thousandth anniversary?" We're going up to 0.7 pst. There. It must also be heard in the debate that is taking place. This year has been an important year in the field of civil and their possibilities to escape being victims of class bombs. We know that class bombs have partly taken over the effect that mines had. A scattered class bomber after the ban on anti-personnel mines came, but the fact that Norway has gone ahead here is noticed internationally. We know that in the CCW in Switzerland, there are not big results, but Norway has now gone ahead. We're doing a great job that's being noticed in Geneva. We know that Norway is going to make contact — we've already started — with other countries, so that we can be a hare in this work. What we know is that we're probably going to get weapons that have an area effect, that is. is very damaging to civilians, we will in the long run be able to get rid of – just as we got to the anti-personnel mines law, and just like other international work has shown that it benefits. We know that our artillery here at home says that this is no problem for us, we can replace with other artillery that has no area effect, that is target-seeking, and that last but not least, does not have the terrible consequence that this has for civilians. There are millions of these dirty weapons with a dead end effect of up to 70 pst. Around the warehouse. The big goal must be that these should not be used. These should not detonate the world's kids into fillets. Norway has taken an important step in the right direction, and we're going to hope that we get the rest of the world with us on this. Then, of course, it has been a fighter fly debate. In 2001, the Storing started a process. What the previous government did was, in my view, to jump straight to an agreement that they signed with the United States, which has cost us a lot – in my view, I would characterise the agreement as a housekeeper's contract. This government has taken action, got a debate going, got all the real options up, so that at least we get fair competition. I thought it was strange that I, as a left-wing socialist, should be the one who had to stand up and say that we had to have competition, but there's the situation. Now competition is real and the debate is going on. I believe that with the debate and process currently under way, we do not risk getting involved in a misinvestment project. We all get the cards on the table, and this can be for the good of the country. I think most of them are some people that we're going to have some kind of fighter aircraft, and we're going to see where it ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e402	I continue where the representative escaped, namely by plane. I guess a lot of us reacted – or maybe it was expected – when a group of Swedes said that they were going against buying new planes, and that they would rather upgrade the planes they have, i.e. F-16. You should save approx. 70 billion, and the 70 billion were to be used to build the railway. But the situation was probably a little more chaotic when we heard the Minister of Finance from SV, who was not quite so clear on this. Of the 72 aircraft that we bought in 1980, we have another approx. 50, and of them, it's approximately. 20 operational. Then the question is: does not this cost anything, and where is SV going to take that money from, when you are going to spend the money you save, to build the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e409	The representative of Bredvold has to come to our group meeting and talk about what we have agreed. We have not said that we are against buying aircraft. What we've said is that SV wants to primarily extend the lifetime of the planes we already have. So it is now time for the Progress Party to present proposals today to cancel the agreement that I call for a housekeeper's contract. I am very pleased that the Progress Party today put in a proposal to cancel him. There are very many people in SV who agree with the proposal put forward today by the Progress Party. Otherwise, it's just to say that we're going to bet on all the options, that we're going to get the best possible and broadest possible debate on this, so that taxpayers' money and public funds don't go into a billion-dollar sluice that turns out to be wrong. And maybe the most important thing: think if we see in ten years that this wasn't the threat, it's the climate noise that's important. The only thing we know is that fighter planes don't work against the climate noise. We can't intercept CO2 in the north areas with fighter planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e419	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e422	As you know, the Christian People's Party has no representative in the Defence Committee, unfortunately the election results did not allow Christian People's Party membership in all the committees of the Storting. However, we are following up on what is happening in the area of security and defence policy, and we want to continue to cooperate well with the other parties in this area as well. The Christian People's Party has been part of the broad defence-political consensus that has ruled in recent years, and we believe it is important to maintain such a breadth in the future as well. It is important that the further conversion and modernisation of the defence are implemented. Defence must become a more modern, more flexible and ally-fitted security policy instrument. It is true, as the majority of the committee points out in the vote, that the conversion of defence has been successful so far. Today, the defense produces real defense, because we have made radical conversion steps that have modernised and streamlined the organisation, despite a slowdown in the transition process, which is also mentioned in the budget. But we also have to admit that not everything has gone as smoothly, and that someone has experienced that the conversions have been tough. There is also a good part that remains before all the measurements are reached. From our point of view, it is positive that the new government is essentially choosing to continue the arrangements and policies of the Bondevik II government. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the main lines of defence, foreign and security policy are firmly established. That's natural, considering our tradition of broad security consensus. But one can get the impression that it is not as easy for all party groups to adapt to the new life and position and realize that one is part of a broad consensus on a stable and predictable defence and security policy. It is therefore good to see that the Committee in the configuration shows that there is broad agreement on the broad lines of our security policy, that the main pillars are the UN and NATO – at least for the broad majority of the Committee. The Christian People's Party believes that multinational cooperation will have an ever-increasing impact on defence. Norway must contribute more to the UN forces and actively participate in international operations. However, it is important to have a framework for the international operations of Norwegian soldiers. Norwegian participation must be based on both the legality of international law and the legitimacy of the people. Norway shall not engage in preventative warfare and pre-emption attacks which do not have a clear grounding in international law. These are absolutely fundamental and indispensable principles of the Christian People's Party. Afghanistan has been Norway’s main military field of action for the past few years, and this priority is firmly established. Through our contribution to ISAF, we support NATO's commitment to the country, which is a broad political uprising both in NATO and here at home. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's decision to offer to take over the management of Kabul International Airport for a period of next year, as demonstrated at the NATO summit in Riga last week. The situation in Afghanistan is difficult. The population lives under harsh conditions. It's not much to live on. The Taliban is once again strengthening its position. Because of the miserable security situation in large parts of the country, refugees and internally displaced Afghans cannot return home. Many international relief organisations cannot work there. According to the international law of the war, the military parties have the responsibility to provide security and to provide the civilian population with the humanitarian assistance they need. All this distress and suffering results in increased reluctance from the Afghans to international actors and has serious consequences for the stability and reconstruction of the country. If the international community is unable to achieve a reconstruction and development that makes it viable for the population, the unrest will be maintained and the Taliban strengthened. Therefore, Norway must contribute, both militarily and humanitarianly, because military presence is necessary to enable humanitarian action. Here is a major challenge for coordination and division of tasks in cooperation between military forces and humanitarian organisations. There are many difficult issues here, and I would like to challenge the Minister of Defence and the Government to take initiatives towards the actors in order to find good solutions in this area. The representative Jacobsen himself was involved in this when he took us on his visit to Chechnya. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the safety of Norwegian personnel must be a high priority. The Christian People's Party will clarify the importance of the defence taking good care of the soldiers sent out on international missions. Family policy and health follow-up. In this context, I would like to mention in particular: National Outpatient military medical trial project for psychological/psychosomatic follow-up of soldiers who have suffered psychological damage under the international operating system with financial compensation for mental stress disorders after international assignment A good follow-up after the end of duty is important. The Christian People's Party will also take into account that a thorough learning of qualities such as mental strength, cultural understanding, morality and international law is important in preparing the soldiers to meet tough days. We see an ever-increasing focus on training our soldiers for ethical reflection and consciousness. In cooperation with universities and other institutions, our first-time servants and defence personnel are trained in matters of ethics, morality and international law. Even from the start of the initial service, emphasis is placed on understanding the ethical and moral aspects of serving in Defence, national and international. This is an important and positive development in Norwegian defence. Norwegian soldiers have to know what rules apply in war, and they have to have values and attitudes that make the barbarism of war not grip them. Ethics and values must govern the use of armed power. This is important. There are many fine words in the Soria Moria Declaration that the new government sees the northern regions as Norway's main strategic area of activity in the coming years. We have also noticed that the Minister of Defence has promised that the defence presence in North Norway will be maintained at a high level and that coastal preparedness will be given high priority. The presentation of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government last Friday was repeated. We are pleased that this government is following up the focus of the Bondevik government on North Norway. The Christian People's Party agrees that Norway faces a number of actual and potential security policy challenges, and that this is particularly true regionally in the major Norwegian sea areas in the north. Both Norway's objective of sustainable management of living resources and our petroleum activities can pose challenges that can have a security policy character. The lack of international acceptance for Norwegian jurisdiction in the fishing protection zone, the unexplained dividing line with Russia and the fact that the northern regions still have a high military strategic importance for Russia are factors in this respect. A stable development in the north, based on a consistent and predictable Norwegian policy in the area, as well as constructive cooperation with both Russia and our allies, is very important here. The work of modernising the defence must continue, both in the short and long term. We know that there are significant challenges in striving for a proper and sustained balance between the level of ambition, structure and resource availability of defence. It is also relatively well known that, in a longer time perspective and with a continuation of the current budgetary level, it will not be possible to continue the agreed defence structure. Therefore, further reform and rationalisation measures need to be assessed and implemented in the Defence Structure and Organisation. This also applies to the base structure. These are challenges that need to be addressed in the work on the next long-term defence plan. We look forward to the final conclusions of the Defence Manager’s 2007 Defence Study, and not least the recommendations of the Defence Policy Selection, and finally the announcement that the Government will make to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e475	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e478	The Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget to reduce the defence budget by 257 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. Right, who is the former Christian People's Party government partner, strongly responds to the government's budget proposal and says that the government is failing the defense with an irresponsible low budget level. What does the Christian People's Party think of this reaction from the Right as a former government partner? And does the Christian People’s Party feel that what they have proposed in their alternative budget is irresponsible? Can we expect that the defence budget of a government of Bondevik in 2007 would have been at the same level as the proposal today from the Government, or even lower, if the Christian People's Party had got its proposal through?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e485	As regards the budgetary level, it is important for the Christian People's Party to follow up the 2005-2008 Long-term plan. As I was in my post, it is important that we achieve a better balance between defence tasks, structure and resource availability. But if I don't remember completely wrong, and we go back a short time in history, until 2004, the Workers' Party in its alternative proposal promoted a budget cut of 250 million. kr, i.e. that the Christian People's Party in this budget has decided to cut by 7 million. kr in relation to it. As opposition parties, I think we are quite similar in the sense that, like the Workers' Party when it was the opposition party, we want to facilitate a better balance between structure, division of tasks and level of allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e492	It is right, as the representative of the Christian People's Party says, that there is no representative in the Defence Committee, which I regret, because we had good cooperation in the last period with the then representative of the Christian People's Party. Personally, I had a lot of cooperation with him on, among other things. veterans and veterans' problems, and not least of late injuries. When the representative Holten Hemdal says that you are satisfied today – at least I interpret it this way – with the reorganisation of the defence, I do not agree with that. In this reorganization, we see inter alia: that there have been 5 000 fewer people employed in the defence, and now they are trying to hire 1000 new ones. They also say that it has gone the right way to put down the camps etc. Then the representative says that you also have to look at the base structure. My question is: how does the Christian People's Party want to reduce by 257 million? Do you really want to delete this item? And what camps do you see to be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e501	It is nice to have good feedback on a former representative of the Defence Committee. We are concerned about – and I also said that in my post – that there have also been some people who have had it tough in connection with this conversion. I also think we're going to be honest and say that yes, we've probably reduced something too much within some of the different branches. In the case of the Army, it is now added to escalate, because we need more personnel and knowledge than we've put up to. I do not think it is right at this point to go in and point to where we might cut if our draft budget had been adopted. My attitude to this is that in the defence study and in the process we are about to enter into until 2008, and also in the case of the decision of the Stortinge, the Progress Party – if not the level of funding is to be much higher, and we do not have a majority – must also be involved in looking at the base structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e510	In the last great age of impending development minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson did a very important principal work. She got tied up Norwegian aid. That is, when one then offered money for certain purposes, Norwegian companies had no advantage. We hope that this will also apply in other countries. The reason why I ask you this is because I want to go into the principle of repurchase. We see that the defence industry is becoming more and more privatized. One sells down to approx. 30 p.m., and the company becomes very much eight of the pension funds or private investors, who are obviously interested in allowing us to allow more money to the defense, so that the industry can go even better. What I want to know is whether the Christian People's Party agrees that one should be able to find solutions where one can draw inspiration from the idea of untying aid, to also apply to repurchase when it comes to defence material – that one does not want it to be drifting over the fact that one buys more defence material.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e519	There are two exciting issues that the representative Jacobsen raises. I agree that former development minister Frafjord Johnson did a good job in not binding Norwegian aid. For the purchase of e.g. Hunter planes, which I think Jacobsen is thinking about, I think it's more exciting what the representative said in his post. I think we all agree in some way that we're going to have a hunting weapon. These are the new signals. In this area, I think it is important that we have a repurchase agreement. But we also need to be able to see that there are some fundamental challenges here, and they are the Christian People's Party willing to go into, even in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e526	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e529	The Central Party notes that we now have a budget ahead of us that will fulfill the intentions of the Soria Moria Declaration. The defence must be more than at present directed towards enforcing Norwegian sovereignty and ensuring stability in our seas, especially in the north. The presence of the defence shall be maintained at a high level in North Norway. At the same time, it shall facilitate increased participation in international operations anchored in a clear and unambiguous UN mandate or other recognised international legal basis. Through this budget, the government has been able to strengthen the operational activities and screen investments that form the basis for the modernisation of the defence adopted by the Stortinget. I have noticed that there is an overall committee other than one party, the Progress Party, which agrees with the main elements of the budget. The same party proposes a significant increase in many areas of the defence budget, while proposing a large cut in the administration of the defence. I think that is very special when you know what challenges the defence has had in recent years in terms of financial management. This shows a lack of understanding of the transformation that the Defense is in and requires resources in terms of both resources and people. The northern regions are the main strategic focus of the Government in the years to come. The total is set at over 270 million. kr in next year's budget for specific north-eastern actions. The measures concern, inter alia: follow-up of the Barents Sea Management Plan, increased presence of the Coast Guard and various cooperation actions with Russia. It is gratifying to note that, in addition to an increase this year, the Coast Guard also receives an increase of 18.3 million for the next year. kr. It will increase the number of days sailing, and we will get more operational in the north by a massive increase in Army budgets, an increase of 308 million. kr. New equipment for the Orion aeroplanes will make these more robust in the long term to carry out their important monitoring task in the north. It is also gratifying to note that the Naval Defense has increased by 69.9 million. kr. This, together with the new challenges that can come to the north – then I think of Iceland’s signal of cooperation with Norway to monitor the Icelandic seas – gives us special challenges. The fact that the Government of the Secretary of State has handed over to the United Nations Maritime Law Commission proposals that Norway should be in charge of the Smuttavet, the area between Norway, Iceland and Jan Mayen, the Smutthole in the Barents Sea and the continental shelf around Svalbard means that our responsibility will be considerably extended. This shows that we have a government that is serious about its Northern Territory bet. I am also pleased that rescue helicopter purchases are mentioned in the budget statement. We note that there have been some complications in the final phase. I hope that they can be clarified, and that the Government will deliver a message to the Stortinge on the new situation and what to do in this area. The central party is pleased that the 2007 budget strengthens the protection obligation. We have increased the focus on getting more women into the defense, which I believe is an important matter for the defense in the future. I have noticed here that one party does not agree with the joint remark that women in Defense will make Defense even better. Even I imagine that in not so many years, hopefully, we will have protection obligations for women on the same lines as men. And then we have full equality. The ISAF force will be the main effort for our military engagement abroad also in 2007. The government has a clear ambition to strengthen Norway's participation in UN-led peace operations, among others. by contributing four MTBs in the enlarged UN Force in Lebanon and preparing to contribute to a robust engineering and transport company in a possible UN peacekeeping operation in Darfur. It is to hope that the Government of Sudan will be able to accept that the world around it is entering and helping to mitigate the conflict that is in the Darfur region. During this magnification period, an important clarification of the defence over the next decades shall be taken. I would like to underline the following comitology comment, which all the parties are behind in the budgetary position: ‘The Committee further points out that no final decision has been taken on our future national combat aircraft capacity and considers it important to ensure continued real competition between the three candidates concerned.’ I fully support this comment. We are going to have a real competition between the three candidates concerned, and the Stortinget is going to take the final decision on the purchase of new fighter aircraft in 2008. Finally, let me say that the Central Party is very satisfied with the Government's 2007 budget proposal, and we support the proposal and its priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e561	I registered that the representative from the Center Party had some attacks on the Advance Party. I want to clarify that the reason why we want to reduce the administrative and bureaucracy expenses is that we want to spend the money on that pointed end, that is, where it happens. We've never said that we're against women in Defense. I remember from my time as a professional officer, and it's been many years since, that we worked to get more women into the defense. But the Progress Party, unlike others, wants it to be done on a voluntary basis. I also register that you are happy for the plus 18.3 million. kr to Coast Guard. How many more sailing days is that extra? The progress party wants a plus 110 million. kr extra to the Coast Guard, just to strengthen the northern regions. Then comes the main question: before, defence has been a lot of district policy, and the centre party is concerned with district policy. Will the Central Party's defence budget continue to be a regional policy, will it be a combination of these two things, or will the defence budget be a defence budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e575	Initially, I would say that there is a connection between the size of the administration and the activity that is in the defense. When I point that out in my answer, it's because I'm afraid that a cut in the administration can make you not get the activity you want. In the case of women in Defense, I am pleased with the clarification that is being made. I think volunteering is important, but we need to put considerable emphasis on facilitating it. The Coast Guard got an increase last. I note that the Progress Party will have 110 million. Extra kroner. They found Sarepta's jar, like the only party in the Stortinget. The rest of us haven't found it yet, so we're going to get back to this. With regard to defence and district policy, it is not possible to say that the construction of the defence also has a district policy element. But the function of Norway as a society of the north is so important that it meets both the needs of defence and the needs of regional policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e586	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e589	The left does not sit on the defense committee, so I would like to take the opportunity initially to give some principal considerations. The first principle consideration is that on behalf of the Left, I am associated with the majority of the committee that is talking about a United Nations-led world order. But let's be clear, with such a way of expressing ourselves, that, first of all, in many contexts, it's about what the United Nations lacks operational capabilities to operate at all, in addition to creating a political basis. It's important, but the UN is missing a lot. And then let's also be aware that the United Nations can give missions, for example. to NATO. It happens, and it has happened. In such an international order, NATO has a significant challenge. There is no need to hide that NATO and Norway as a NATO member face such a challenge in Afghanistan today. It's a two-part challenge. It's all about which not only many politicians, but a number of prominent officers have underlined that there must be a civil mission that ends up making the population think there's some point to the mission, that there are some who win something on their behalf. But it doesn't help with a civil mission, either, if those who are going to contribute to it don't have protection. That's why the Left's position has been – I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it – that it's good that we make an effort in the Kabul area, as the Government wants. It's good we're doing something in North Afghanistan. I know that an effort in North Afghanistan could lead to us, as a reinforcement force, coming to South Afghanistan. I would like to stress that it is important that we put units in South Afghanistan – once we are asked to do so – as in previous acts in Afghanistan have shown that they are dealing with the situation. There is no doubt that the Special Forces of the Army are in such a situation. I just want to repeat that signal. I have the impression that the government will get this in place when it becomes important. But there should be thought for Norway, which is a country that is unusually dependent on having many friends and being perceived as a good partner in alliance with others, that we can set up even when it can be more tough than we might be used to, and what we like. That's the Left's point of view. Then to the purely defence policy. It is quite clear that in terms of purely defence policy, I think the Government is in an exciting grip on the concept of strategic air transport. It could be that together with the close NATO allies, we can be involved in something that's common. I think that should be an element of future defence planning, in addition to what has been said about confounding, cutting down on base structure or getting more money. We're putting the confusion aside, because it's a hopeless concept to operate on at all. So we're going to spend $30 billion a year to end up in a hole. It doesn't make any sense. I think we can just add that side. An alternative to discussing the balance between money and structure and, if necessary, to getting more money is to look at what we can do in cooperation with others. In this context, I think the example of strategic air transport is an exciting way to approach this issue. I don't want to ignore the fact that it may be relevant in other areas as well. When it comes to the defence's principal mission, I need to say once again in this debate what we are increasingly hearing, that because the cold war is over and the world is global, we have to do our job in the world: it totally agrees with the Left. But then I'd just like to say that Norway's geopolitical position makes us most a part of a global understanding of the world. It is not possible to remove Norway, which is a neighbour of one of the three major reserves of oil and gas on this globe, which is in the Middle East, in Central Asia and northeast of Norway. It's a geopolitical position that geopolitically makes us incredibly central, whether we had to like it or not. Secondly, the whole fairway along the Norwegian coast makes us geopolitically central. The fact that we are currently – after the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia – the world's largest exporter of oil and gas, makes us geopolitically interesting in any meaningful understanding of geopolitics. It is possible that that perspective may interfere with the general everyday debate in Norwegian opinion, but there is a heavy reality in the debate. For my part and on behalf of the Left, I see that the Government thinks it has such a perspective, and that it wants to say that in a geopolitical approach we have the tasks we have in our own country to secure the territory and especially the north, and we have what we're going to do in the world. I would like to signal the connection to it. I would also like to signal with such a principle that, in terms of the work of both the Defence Director's study and the political selection of the Council of State, the Left is prepared to enter into the cooperation that has historically existed between the Workers' Party, the Right and the Centre parties in this Chamber. I'm not saying this because there's some brittle against the Progress Party, because I don't want to have that. The Progress Party is highly defence-friendly, but it operates in practice with an economic disposition with which it is at least not possible for the Left to operate. But I want to say that there is no gap in the perception of defence kindness. No one's going to take away from me, sir. Width and his colleagues that they are intense in this area. Then I would also like to highlight another principle relationship, and that is that the defence must have a anchor in the years to come, we must also have an intelligent practice of the duty of protection. I think that we have now had occasion for an exciting debate on it. I was invited together with others to a conference that People and Defence had just a week ago – the Minister of Defense was there too and made an important contribution – and I want to say that what was said by several, not least from the young people themselves who are out in the caretaker, promises good for the future. It's about a protection obligation that's not just going to be used to go through something that's so short because you're going to be picked out to something else. It's going to have a value in itself, and then someone can specialize in more than this. And in those you're going to recruit, work to do tough and important jobs, you want a healthy and good starting point. I also think that setting up a voluntary session is a promising tool, because there are many young girls who sign up. I think the Minister of Defense presentation earlier in this room on how to recruit women is an exciting way to think about. I've marked it before, and I'd like to repeat it: to get women into the defense, I think it's as strange as to put women into the police. The police are able to get the 33 pst. women of the police high school, and they do it in the clear speech of everyday life. It's not different in the defense. We don't have to use the necessary feminist combat of the 1970s when we come to 2006, in terms of police and defence. I see that the Minister of Defense has the belief in his or her sex traps that they are intelligent, ongoing and tough enough to run. So the recruitment line must be the line we're going to hold on to, and I think there's a lot of exciting thoughts about it both in the government that we have now, and in the department. So to a point that no one talks about, but as I think it's important to talk about, and it's hijacking. 451. And what is that? Well, that's the part that ends up in the Defence Committee and that's about civil protection. I assume that the sitting government will do nothing but maintain the civil defence we have, operationally, but I want to talk about cap. 451 for another reason, and that's the need to practice. We've just had Exercise Oslo, a major preparedness exercise to see how our most important agencies, emergency facilities, the Defense and others can interact. We have received some catchy messages in the local press about how long it took for someone to decide to ask for the defense's assistance until it arrived. I'm assuming that this is going to be reviewed in such a way that you really learn something from it. I also take note of the fact that the government has cut through and has chosen an offerer in the case of digital emergency networks, that is, the connection that is needed to enable our entire emergency response device, with our emergency situation, to function against the Defense even in emergency situations. I think it's the right grip. It costs approx. 80 pst. by a frigate without weapon systems, so I think it's a reasonable investment to ensure what's most important of all, namely connection. I choose to bring up civil protection because it has to be part of what's going on. I am aware that we in Norway have a good practice for good cooperation between the civil sector and defence. I think that is absolutely essential. In the budget that I have seen here, there has been a strengthening of the Intelligence Service. I guess that's the scarcest budget comment there is. I have nothing to add, except to say that it's good. I would like to see the national safety authority treated in a different way, but I can't do it in any other way than express it so that it's an important body. Once someone used the picture that we had the fastening around Oslo. Now you could almost say that we have the police security service one place, we have the national security service another place, and we have the intelligence service a third place. It's the modern-day confirmation. It does not consist of fast and cannons, but it consists of wise and good people with the competence to capture intelligence information. They are vital in every form of modern society. It is important that the Government also signal, as it has done, that this should be reinforced. At the end of this article, I want to highlight, as I have said before, that it is important that, through the duty of protection and in other ways, we get a greater volume of what is to be at our disposal for our land defence, it is the Army, both at home and outside, or the Home Security. It is a very important debate. Right now, we can attract people who've been educated so far. We have to make sure that in six-seven-eight years we still have a lot of people. Then the debate on the name and character of the formations is going to be a different debate. But that we're going to have the humans, and that we need them, that's very important. With these more fundamental remarks, the Left will vote in favour of the budgetary position presented by the majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e632	There was not much in the posts I disagreed with in the representative of Dørum. But at one point, I'm actually very disagreed, and that's that the left in the financial position is subtracting 220 million. kr in relation to the budget currently adopted. When they want to take that money, they say they want to stop the work with the extension of the dry dock in Haakonsvern. This is quite alarming, because all the work is contracted, and it is unclear how much of the contract sum we had to pay if the plant was stopped. At least it would be expensive. In addition, it may not be possible – at least it will cost a lot – to move back the blasted masses. It is today a very crater encircled by heavy filling masses both to land and to water. That's why my question is to the Left: Did it come to this proposal because you thought that here the government is going to save you, or how will the Left implement such a proposal, and how much will it cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e639	I suppose we were in the same spiritual mode as the Workers ’ Party was in the previous period when they suddenly cut 250 million. kr in the budget. We did it that way, and the budget was aged. We did so by what the representative eye says, and also by wanting to increase sales, but we did not do so by intervening in other areas that were vital investments, and we stand firm on that. We also insist that we are prepared to seek broad cooperation solutions in the UK in connection with both the Chief of Defense's study and the political selection. Then we can see that if the Left here is seen by the representative eye as being more easily harry, then we have a harry story in common, then – said to the representative eye through the president. But the defense is probably good with both of us, I guess, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e648	As a former Minister of Justice, the representative of Dørum is very good at civil matters, and in international operations we know that what is the Georgian knot is how to get better interaction between military and civil acts to make this work. We know, for example. that in Darfur, where perhaps a humanitarian disaster can go off, they won't even have us. We know that in Afghanistan we're trying to balance this in a good enough way. What is the contribution of the Left in the political debate to making military instruments as good as possible by means of follow-up both humanitarian and civil?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e655	The left's contribution to the debate was in time to establish what we called the Strength well. It is people who, as far as I know, are also active in Afghanistan today. So we have personnel on the legal side, on the security side, on the prison and prosecution side to build something up. But our main contribution is essentially a contribution that I perceive that the Government, the government parties, the Left and other parties have in common, namely that we must think civilly in Afghanistan, but we must also have people present to protect the civilians. It's a two-part lead. The representative Jacobsen and I are currently being separated by the fact that we do not agree when someone is going to be sent there. I am convinced that someone will be sent there. So I'm not going to add more stone to the burden than by expressing myself that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e664	I also see the Left as a warm defence-friendly party, and I am pleased about that. But don't worry the representative Dørum a little bit when we are beating through a defence budget that is approx. 1.6 billion dollars below what the head of defense thinks is good for keeping the budget at the current level, and when the Left wants minus 220 million. Do I have a kr in addition to that? Doesn't that make Doorum a little worried? At least it makes me worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e669	I have been concerned about the defence since 1980/81, and during this period I have actually worked a lot to get an idea of what the money is going to, and how it is used. I'm going to promise, with everything I can stand for, that we're going to do the same job when we get a new document. I was also responsible for a few years ago for providing an alternative to what the Labour Party and the Right as a majority voted through. Then the representative Bredvold and the Left, SV and the centre parties were involved in spending quite a lot of money on the defense. So I'm prepared to go in and see how the money is used, but I'm not for any line of confusion. The left is not going to stand for any weathering line, we're going to stand for a defense that's going to be able to hold and be real. Then we know that we might then face some tough choices, but we're going to come back to that. At least we're not going to go on any weathering line. I myself have also sketched another way of thinking, and that lies in the strategic concept of air transport presented by the Government. My concerns are going to persist, along with the representative of Bredvolds, until it slows down. I don't know if it will do it in my lifetime, but I'm at least going to fight for it to be as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e682	The Committee's position and debate so far today show, however, that there is a broad and fundamental consensus on the broad lines of security and defence policy. This broad consensus is essential for us to succeed in modernising the defence. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has identified the northern areas as Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. This is what we are following up in the budget, which will strengthen our ability to operate, to exercise authority, to uphold sovereignty and to manage crises in the north. I am particularly pleased that the whole committee supports these priorities. In the Soria Moria Declaration and in the draft budget, the Government adds active international commitment and facilitates increased participation in UN-led operations. With this budget, the Government continues to maintain a still high budgetary level. We'll bet on the Army. It's the most powerful defense, it gets a real increase of 8 pst. This will facilitate increased operational activity, especially in North Norway, but also in Østerdal Garrison. The plan is to increase the number of members of the Army by over 300 in 2007. The budget also supports the Government's ambition to gradually increase Norwegian participation in international peace and stabilisation operations under the UN and NATO regime. In 2007, the army could have sufficient staff to support two international operations, each of which is around company size – one force in Afghanistan today and possibly one in Africa – at the same time and over time. In the long term, the army’s ability to deliver capacities, including over time — national and international — shall be further strengthened. The Coast Guard will have a budget increase of 18 million. NOK, which is in addition to the SEK 15 million. kr with which we increased the budget for the current year. The budgets of the Maritime Defence, Air Force and Home Protection are also strengthened. The allocations facilitate increased activity, with a particular focus on the northern regions. The Afghanistan operation will continue to be Norway's main field of action, and our efforts in the country will be channelled through NATO. In addition, we will be involved with observers and minor contributions in a number of operations under the UN, NATO and EU regulations. The notification of a large part of the Telemark battalion to the NATO Response Force, NRF, as well as the fact that Norway takes responsibility for the International Aerodrome in Kabul, was very well received at the NATO Summit in Riga. The notification of the Telemark battalion helped to help NATO declare the NRF operational. The fact that Norway can do this at short notice shows that we are on the right track with the change in defence. This would not have been possible just a few years ago. The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal stressed the importance of coordination of civil and military action in particular in Afghanistan. There is an assessment that the Government strongly shares. Efforts in the field of ethics were also highlighted, and I would just like to refer to the action plan presented in September of this year, which is called the ‘Action Plan for Attitudes, Ethics and Management’, which applies to the educational institutions of the Defence Agency, but also to the entire organisation in the Defence. When the Chairman of the Defence Committee, Jan Petersen, says that the level of the budget is 275 million. kr* Representative Jan Petersen said 375 million. kr. below what has been achieved by the Right, it is primarily because only foreseeable costs have been entered in the budget for international operations. This is the reason for the slightly lower level of cap. 1792, Norwegian forces abroad, in 2007 than in 2006. However, the government makes up for an active international commitment, with an ambition for increased bet on UN-led operations. The government will come back with details on the financing of the costs of the operation in Lebanon and, where appropriate, an operation in Darfur when these are finally clarified for 2007. The government is prepared to assess further participation in any other pending international operations. General protection obligations are maintained and the needs of the defence are to be taken into account. The convocation of compulsory ratings is continued at a minimum level in 2006. It is planned in the 2007 budget for approx. 10 pst. increase in the distribution allowance. It is not difficult to agree with the representative Per Ove Wideth in his statement that the personnel are the defence's main resource. In all material debates, people often come to the fore. But it is also an objective that the proportion of women in defence should be increased in order to ensure an organisation characterised by diversity and equivalency. Calling for a voluntary session, introduced in 2007, will provide women with much more information on what the defence has to offer of service, education and career opportunities. I have also taken the initiative to set up a sample to look at further measures by March 2007 to increase the proportion of women in defence, and I note that there is a great deal of interest in that in Stortinget as well. The representative Odd Einar Dørum stressed social security and the use of society's resources in a good and coordinated way, something the government is very concerned about, and I fully share that view. The defense, after the Stoltenberg I government started the conversion of the Defense, has so far succeeded in establishing improved operational capability and ability to resolve the problem. We have thus received a significantly more relevant defence than when we started the conversion. Both for the long term 2002–2005 and so far for the current period, 2005–08, the majority of the savings imposed have been made. However, some intermediate migration targets were not achieved in the previous period, and we have some delays in the current period as well. This concerns, in particular, savings in the top management of the defence, foreign positions and the efficiency of the Defence Logistics Organisation, as well as the objective related to the development of annual costs in the defence sector. In these areas, the last government failed to achieve its objectives, and we are still delayed. This is precisely why these outstanding areas are at the heart of the further transformation in the current long-term. At the same time, I must point out that the situation is actually such that it takes time to take advantage in the defence sector, as in the public sector. The current gain situation is therefore largely an effect of previous year’s priorities. That being said, of course, we need to have a strong focus on further progress in the profit take-off. What we say in the budget statement about the need for new cuts in the management and command structure is one of several examples of this. As the Committee also points out, the conversion of the defence is still not in place. Although the situation is much brighter today than it was when the transition started in 2001, we still have major challenges ahead of us. The government proposes that these long-term structural challenges be considered in the context of the long-term planning process. It is positive that an overall committee seems to support this approach. The basis is prepared through both the Defence Policy Selection and the Defence Manager’s defence study. The government's recommendations, presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 2008, will build, among others: on this basis. Until then, we will control the business and transform the defence according to the current long-term plan. We will endeavour to facilitate sufficient treatment of the Stortinge for the next long-term plan, which the chair of the Defence Committee also stressed in its contribution. This is a good defence budget, which will ensure both high-level operational deliveries and preparedness, while ensuring the continuation of the conversion of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e735	We are now in front of the further development of our fighter aircraft project and our relationship with Lockheed Martin JSF. We're close to the point where we're going to decide if we're going to further develop this project and pay more money, over 100 million. kr to. So far, several of us politicians, industry and trade unions are very little satisfied with developments in Lockheed Martin and industrial projects. My question is then: Is the Council of State so much more satisfied than the ones mentioned, that she can imagine continuing this project and paying back in a very short time over 100 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Then we're in the situation that SV doesn't want to buy new planes, and the Center Party wants a real competition with respect to all the providers, like the Advance Party. How, then, can the Government come into the situation that it can propose to buy new aircraft, when there are therefore two government partners who are very little willing to participate in this operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e742	The Government is concerned that there will be competition with regard to the purchase of new fighter aircraft, if any. We follow the mission that Stortinget gave in 2001 to file a case for Stortinget in spring 2008, possibly recommending that we buy fighter aircraft, and possibly which aircraft you should buy. The matter is big and comprehensive, but I also want to stress that our government took an active action to get a real competition, get more operators into the fighter aircraft project. These will be evaluated, and it is desirable that they be current candidates until we have to make the final decision. In relation to Lochheed Martin, we have also been very active in improving the industrial policy aspect of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e747	Just to prevent any misunderstanding: the Council of State spoke of the long-term announcement being presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 2008, but I also understood that the tightening up of the committee has taken place in time is also convenient to the Council of State, so that we will be presented with it before spring 2008. It's pretty important to us that we get enough time. My question, however, is about the transitions, and I am fully aware of the history that the Council of State reproduced. But the question is simply: what action does the Council of State now think it is necessary to take, so that you get on track when it comes to the transitions? It is announced that by the end of 2007, NOK 0.6 billion will be left behind, and it will be desirable to get on the road as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e754	The migration carried out, and in particular the personnel situation, where 5000 annual works were reduced, was implemented as a voluntary scheme of take-off packages. That time is now over. It was in a way the easy change to make, because you called for good offers by stopping. What you see now, a delay both in the previous period and also in this period, is that there is too little on the management structure, on the command structure, and also on the shift in the FLO, which is somewhat behind it. It's in these areas that we now need to focus on the future, and that's why I've also announced in the proposition that we'll look at this in particular with the management functions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e759	I am pleased that the Minister of Defense in his speech sees the challenges at the intersection of military and civil cooperation, that here we have challenges, and that there is probably still work to be done. The Council of State also highlighted the ‘Action Plan for Attitudes, Ethics and Management’ presented by the Government in September. That ethics and value awareness are important to our soldiers and to our officers, yes, I think we agree on that. My question to the Council of State will then be: How high is this issue for the Council of State on her political agenda in contact with her foreign colleagues? Because we know that slowly, but surely it is revealed in media episodes that we do not want to happen, and therefore: How high does the Council of State have this on its political agenda in front of its foreign colleagues?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e764	If I see the question in this way, how high do I have this on the agenda in dialogue with my Minister of Defence colleagues, the answer is that it is high on the agenda. As far as ethics and attitudes are concerned, I would like to say that every defence minister in a country has a great responsibility towards the soldiers, such as them. are sent out in international service, and also in their own country, of course. I have had this action plan so high on the agenda that I took the initiative in January this year. When I did, it was because I thought it was necessary, I thought it was necessary when I entered the Ministry of Defence last year. That is why I took that initiative, which is why I have stressed it very strongly, and that is why I have kept it very high on the agenda in all my speeches and posts, because I also think it is important to have an ethical awareness that goes across both the organisation we have at home and those that are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e769	I note and know that the Council of State and the Left have a common view of the importance of the northern regions. We also know that important work is now being done on the Chief of Defense's study and on the Selection of Defence Policy. I am concerned that the land defence must also have a certain strength in the north, and there may be different grips for it. We can easily find ourselves in a situation where, for example: not get enough HV units, even if you want to, and get in the situation that the units we make in the Army are not sufficient. Is the Council of State prepared to think a little untraditional about what kind of units we can expect to set up in the north, so that in the years to come, we will signal, shall we say, that part of the territorial authority that does not go into a warrior's policy, but that goes into a policy that is about the legitimacy of the state on the civil and military sides in the north? So there is a purely fundamental and practical question of thinking new and transparently about the exploitation of our country's military forces in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e774	I'm always concerned with thinking new and untraditional and trying to be creative and using the resources we have, in the best possible way for society. I think that's something that's up to us when we manage large parts of society's resources. In the case of the presence in the north, it is important that we are present there with both the Army, the Naval Defense and the Air Force. Although there has been an improvement in efficiency – or rationalisation – with regard to the number of bases in the north, it is not the case that it should have an impact on the presence of the defence or, for that matter, not on the number of personnel in the north, because we have an ambition to increase it. We have important garrisons in the north. We have the garrison in South Varanger, we have the border guard, we have the whole environment in Inner Troms, and not least, as was mentioned by the representative of Dørum, the Home Guard. It's important to pay attention to that as well. I know that the Home Office is in strong shape, and we have good faith that we will succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e784	In an article in the Evening Post on November 30, this year, we were once again able to read about the situation of Defence. Warnings include: the Head of Defence Operational Headquarters that Norway's military forces are dangerously close to a minimum and in some areas below a minimum. Does the Council take note of these comments? Do the councils agree with them? And if the Council of State doesn't agree with them, what is the situation for the Council of State, and what will she do with the budget we have today, which, after all, is DKK 1.6 billion under what the head of defence thinks is proper to maintain today's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e791	I have had conversations with the head of FOHK, and the head of defence has also presented a state report on the defense to the Defence Committee. The representative, Mr. Bredvold, is aware that the head of defense here says that the state of defence is now good. I would also like to say that the exercise ‘Mobil effort’, which was in North Norway a few weeks ago, showed a defence with a reaction ability, flexibility and a strength that I think it has been many years since you’ve seen. It would not have been possible a few years ago to carry out such an exercise with all the defenses as operational and as flexible as those who showed that they are. It is true that the defense today is little staffed in some areas, but we are building it up. That's exactly why our government has taken the initiative to build the Army, for example, and we're strengthening our operational capability by 500 million. kr in the year’s budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e800	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e803	Once again, the budget debate is under way, and once again, the defence budget is too little in relation to what the defence is required to do. It seems that, regardless of civil or, in this case, red-green government, the defense has once again lost to other areas. The big question is, how long does the defense last, and what kind of defense do we get? According to our Defence Manager Densen's statement a few weeks ago, we will have terminated the Defence within 20-30 years if the budget line we – i.e. all except the Advance Party – has continued for the last 10 to 15 years. These are serious claims, but certainly correct, unfortunately. That is why the Progress Party has proposed to increase our defence budget by just over SEK 1.5 billion and the external budget by DKK 2 billion. This will at least keep the Defense standing city. What is serious for us politicians is that there is a dangerous and grave imbalance in the defence between politically adopted structures and politically adopted budgets. This is what has been said. Not everyone will admit it, unfortunately. One of the problems is that the cost of running the defence and making investments increases more than the overall price increase. The defence equipment has become more and more technical, and such things for the defence are expensive, yes very expensive. Replacing an AG-3 is okay, but the more and more advanced equipment, which we need, is expensive in proportion. It also seems that the reorganisation that the defense has been and is inside has been too fast and short-sighted. This can be seen now when the defense wants more new employees, at least 1 000, and only a short time ago they came up with take-off incentives to reduce by 5,000. Unfortunately, this also caused a negative effect by the fact that many of those who ended were people who the Defense should have kept. As a result, this became a loss-loss situation for the defense. The defense has recently also purchased equipment, which is and has been necessary. The problem has been that you have not thought enough about how much it costs to operate the new purchase. Often, new materials have a higher operating budget than they are intended to replace. That's why I'm afraid that our ships, if no more money is allocated, can get many days at berth. With regard to the much-mentioned flight purchase, it becomes very exciting and interesting to follow it. How many planes will there be, what type and with what conditions? Or is SV being passed through in the government here too, so that there is no purchase? It'll be interesting what the Working Party does or will do. The same will apply to our foreign efforts. Should the government go in for more soldiers? And what does SV say? That's interesting. Otherwise, it has also been interesting to read the overview that appeared in the Evening Post of November 30th, and what the head of the Defense Operational Headquarters says, namely: ‘Norway military forces are dangerous near a minimum. In several areas below minimum.’» If this doesn't get the alarm bells to call the government parties, I don't understand anything. Minimum and minimum – can it get worse when we want a defense at the same time, when at the same time we need a defense domestically, and when NATO at the same time asks us for help? This is bad. It's been speculating what closures the head of defense wants, and where they're going to happen. That number has been mentioned. I think, unfortunately, that there will be no other way out with a budget corresponding to today's, without an increase in the defence budget. When you look at the different weapons, it might seem that the Maritime Defense is the weakest. A lot of equipment is old and some of the vessels are to be phased out in the near future. When you look at the situation realistically, it's not that much of what seems directly deterrent today. We have freshened in memory that it is not so long since a rusty Russian fishing boat managed to escape Norwegian authorities. Although it may have been a complex problem, I don't think what happened was directly impressive. In the case of our aircraft, Norway purchased 72 F-16 aircraft. The first came for approx. 30 years ago. Since then they have been used regularly and have done a very good job. But the number of flight hours has done their own, as well as various accidents, so that today we only have approx. 50. How many of these are operational at any time can be discussed, but the number 20 has changed. If this is right, it tells us that the situation is precarious. We have to do something. When we think about the size of the sea and land areas in Norway, there is no doubt that aircraft may be the most important part of our defence, both in peace and in a possible war situation. For the Progress Party, our transport planes, called Hercules, have been a repeater. The starting point was six planes, and they came to Norway over 30 years ago. But how many – or how few – are flying today can be discussed. Here both one and zero have been mentioned. Switching wings is not enough. This is also material that is nearly 30 years old and above it and deserves a replacement. Otherwise, of course, we have some helicopters, but these also have a very high number of hours, and the maintenance is getting very expensive. It's expensive to be poor, but the nation of Norway has money. Buying new material from abroad should not be a problem. As far as the Army is concerned, it has not been as few in recent times as it is now. The progress party does not think this is good, and wants much more to serve the first time. When we are down to approx. One third of the total number of boys in question, this is an too low number. In addition, it seems unfair to those who serve the service that so many escape. It'll be the excitement to see how the bets on girls will go, and how many are in the defense. We need interested and capable girls and boys all over the defense. Home protection has been greatly reduced in the number of people, from 83 000 to 50 000, and the number of districts, if I remember correctly, is reduced from 18 to 13. I'm skeptical until the end, because I think a lot of the local knowledge that Homeland Security has is going to be gone. What is positive is that, among other things, the equipment has been good, but it would only be missing if the Home Protection system were not given new and newer equipment. What they had often seemed demoralizing. I think the Home Guard is in a good phase. Fortunately, it may look like this, but protection alone cannot take care of all of our interests. This was an outrage of largely a defense in crisis, a crisis that can be resolved if the majority turns around and gives the defense the financial resources they need, or goes to such a dramatic step as to wind up one or more branches. Then we get a defense based on e.g. The Home Guard and the Air Force. Is that what we want? Something has to be done. The Progress Party sees today's problem. We have proposed to increase the allocation of the individual branches, and we have, as I said, a foreign budget of NOK 2 billion. If this is enough, it can be discussed, but at least it's a beginning. The Progress Party is also in favour of sending equipment and crews for foreign operations. But this must not happen at the expense of our own interests or of the defence budget. It is necessary to provide additional money for such operations. It is important that the planned activity should be fully funded through the State budget. In addition, there must be predictability of the crews involved. Summary: The Progress Party wants the defence to be of such a nature that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. This costs money, but money has Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e857	Today, when we deal with the 2007 defence budget, we do so in the light of the fact that the defence is in transition. In the future, it will include: is more geared towards enforcing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our large seas. In this context, it is appropriate to draw attention to the Soria Moria declaration. Here, there are clear and strong objectives to strengthen defence in these areas by stating that the defence response should be more targeted than today at enforcing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our marine areas, especially in the north. This budget clearly shows that the Soria Moria Declaration is being followed up and that the presence of the Defence shall be maintained at a high level in the north. Looking at the northern areas as Norway’s main strategic area of activity in the coming years, the government says that the northern regions have gone from being a security area to becoming an energy policy centre and area for major environmental policy challenges. The government says not only that the defense should be present in the north, but that the presence should be strengthened. I believe that this is also reflected in the priorities set out in the budget we are now discussing. So it's not like it's claimed from the Progress Party. It is tempting to recall the framework that the Progress Party had for defence in its budgetary agreements, and what kind of priorities North Norway received at that time. I'd like to show you that the Coast Guard in the budget will receive an increase of $18 million. kr. This means that the Coast Guard has been strengthened by 33 million. kr in relation to the draft budget submitted by the Bondevik Government for 2006. This is significant and means a great deal to be able to perform the tasks assigned to the Coast Guard. Good operation is envisaged in 2007 for all Coast Guard vessels. For the main vessels, the helicopter carriers, the number of patrol days increases by 21 pst. From this year to next year – i.e. from 780 to 950 days of patrol. Everyone understands that this is something that improves the ability of the Coast Guard to do the job they are assigned to. However, I do not think that we can settle down on this, and that we can therefore already see that in the years to come there will be a need for further increases in the budget in order to keep the sails at a good level. In my opinion, it is a very good social investment to have a good operational coastguard, which can carry out the demanding tasks of this part of the Defense. We can clearly see that the Government is making a major effort in the north areas also in relation to the Defence through the concrete steps that have been taken to strengthen the Coast Guard's ability to sail and the Orion aircraft's ability to be in the air. By responding to breaches of the rules on the protection of natural resources, Norway makes it clear that international and national obligations are to be taken seriously. Infringements of Norwegian fisheries legislation are therefore enforced in a credible, consistent and predictable manner. The army is given high priority and is strengthened most in the budget of the year, to which the Committee as a whole has expressed a positive opinion. This is a necessary strengthening for the build-up of the Army against the objectives of the plans adopted, in order to be able to follow up the ambition to gradually increase and also maintain Norwegian participation in peace and stabilisation operations under the UN and NATO regimes. Major parts of Army operations have been added to the northern part of the country. Most of the training now takes place in the Army of North Norway. Inner Troms is one of the Army's two centres of gravity and will also be in the future. In addition, the garrison in South Varanger is one of the Army's highest priority departments. I am pleased that this kind of land-based military activity is also in place as part of the Northern Territory Strategy of the Government. Although good control at sea is important, it is on land that people live and have a lot of business-related activities. Therefore, the Army’s activities are also important in the context of the North Region Initiative. I've dedicated a lot of this post to the ongoing bet in the northern regions. I do this because the North Region bet is important to the whole country and because the Development of Defence has a lot to say for the whole of the North Region bet. In this context, I also find it important to say that although the government's goal is to strengthen the defence in the north, this does not mean that everything can be like before. This means that we still have to count on significant changes in the defense even in the north, without breaking the government's objectives. We all have a responsibility to get the most defence out of the money to be used. That is why it is important for everyone to be constructively involved in the debates we are now facing with regard to the proposals contained in the Defence Study and from the Defence Policy Committee. I am aware that many communities are concerned about the local effects of the conversion that must take place. I have no problem understanding this concern. I note that it is often said, in so far as it is here today, that defence is not to be used in the field of district policy, and that district policy must not be confused with the objectives we are going to have for defence. Of course, I agree with this, but it must not be that the defence cannot be located in the districts if it is good for the defense. I myself have been around the country looking at the amazing areas of practice that exist in the districts, and I can't see that exercises can be done anywhere other than in districts where there is good space and good practice opportunities. Therefore, this fear of talking about district policy in relation to the Defence must not overshadow the amazing opportunities in the districts to exercise the defence exercises and activities. I understand those who ask why such areas are so suitable for practice, but not for other presences. In my opinion, practice and presence are two sides of the same case and must not be seen separately. We can't expect local communities to put difficult areas at their disposal without having anything left but the problems. I also hope that we will find good solutions for those communities that have the strongest impact of the changes that will take place in the Defence in the years to come. Finally, let me say that I think the government is doing a very good job in order to get a good development in the defense. For a job with such high requirements for conversion, it is essential that employees be able to have confidence and an open relationship with political management and with the processes to be followed. I believe that the Minister of Defence and her staff have clearly been very good. I am also pleased that the Government will have the Defence as an important part of the North Region Initiative in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e897	I want to talk a little bit about the concerns that have arisen about the government's fighter aircraft project. There are many unanswered questions hanging in the air, yes, I would say that all the questions are unanswered and hanging in the air. Do we need fighter planes? The last time the FFI made an investigation about it, it was probably 15 years ago. That's not answered well enough. If we need fighter planes, which most people agree on, do we need 65, 48, or 24? What do we need to be operational with a fighter aircraft and to have multiple squadrons? What capabilities do our fighter planes need? What time do we need fighter planes? When can F-16 be phased out? Have we looked at alternatives? Have we looked at so-called unmanned UAVs, which will enter into 2040-2050? Has it been taken seriously? There are already groups looking at the development of UAVs. What are the considerations on the basis of which any acquisition should be made? Are these the operational capabilities? What's good enough? Are these the industrial possibilities? Are these the safety policy assessments? And in that case, which party’s security policy assessments are at the heart of – are there the SV’s security policy assessments, or are they the Workers’ Party’s security policy assessments? I'm not quite sure the Center Party has any security policy assessments. Is all of this going to be in the order above? And what's the most important thing to do? Competition is good, but how real is competition? Of course, if the Government chooses to join the Production MoU for JSF, it is not a formal decision on acquisition. But it is seen as much more committed by the seller – and also by the United States. Then it's probably also that Lockheed Martin won't want to sell us fighter planes if we weren't going to sign this agreement, and don't want to complete JSF. Of course they will. 40 to 50 billion dollars is one year's export for Lockeheed Martin, and that's a lot of money. I have asked two questions to the Council of State, but have received a «Good day, man! “Occupationary” answers to these questions. The budget statement states that the Government will inform the Storting during the autumn of 2006. Now, however, has been quite mild, but most would say that now we have come to winter, and we have not yet received any information about this. I also asked what the cost would be if you withdrew from signing the production MoU at some point in time – 2007, 2008 or 2010. The Council of State had no answer to that. It is quite essential when it has been said in media speculation that it may be up to NOK 5 billion in costs if you choose to resign once you have signed the agreement. I would like to ask the State Council again: When will the Stortinget be informed about whether Norway is going to sign the Production MoU? There aren't many weeks left of this session. What are the costs if you choose to withdraw at a given time? Those costs have to be met, because it's clear that if you're talking about billions, it's absolutely essential for the Storting to know about it. An acquisition of fighter aircraft will be Norway's largest acquisition ever. The costs vary, but we can reasonably assume that it will cost $1 billion per person. flight. It's a bundled plane – it's also supposed to have weapons with it. So it's not just buying planes and flying around, like you did some years with F-16. You actually need weapons on the planes. Then there will also be talk about the development of NSM on Kongsberg. It is planned to be integrated into the JSF. Here the government has an excellent opportunity to use NSM as a breaker in the industrial negotiations. Lockheed Martin doesn't buy weapons. There is only one customer of weapons in each country. The US authorities may, if appropriate, purchase NSM and put it on their JSF. An acquisition for the United States of 500 missiles would solve our entire industrial problem. Then we would have been up in the amounts we're looking for, but we don't have that kind of thinking. You talk about industrial cooperation with Lockheed Martin, but you don't talk to the US authorities, because the US authorities claim that it's up to the company itself to conclude the industrial agreements. That's exactly what's politics, going to the US authorities and getting to the cooperation agreement that's necessary to get to the industrial profit we want. So I just want to end up talking a little bit about the department's use of resources. In order to obtain so-called industrial agreements for DKK 40–50 billion, there is a huge amount of money required from the Ministry to deal with it. I see no indication that sufficient resources – personnel and financial resources – are being used to obtain the industrial agreements necessary for the Norwegian industry. It's not just useful to complain that you don't get it done, when you don't make sure you have enough resources in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e914	The debate today has shown that there is still a broad consensus on Norwegian defence and security policy, with some minor exceptions. This broad consensus is crucial all the time when Norway — let us say — is a relatively small international player. We therefore rely on good multilateral arrangements for security cooperation, based in particular on: on the principles of the UN Charter and on the basis of international law. The UN is crucial for Norway’s security policy. It is therefore gratifying that the Government makes it so clear that Norway should contribute to the United Nations being able to get the key role that the United Nations should and should have. This means increasing military participation in UN-led operations, and I would add: we need to get more Norwegian officers to lead positions in the UN. The second pillar – or perhaps we should say the pillar – of Norwegian defence and security policy is our NATO membership. It is in our absolute interest that we also contribute to the development of NATO as a stabilising forward-looking alliance. Sometimes I find the debate on Norwegian foreign policy and on Norwegian defence and security policy somewhat short-sighted and perhaps to some extent historyless. Norway's relationship with NATO for nearly 60 years, and NATO as such, has been crucial for peace and reconciliation throughout the North Atlantic region. Let's not forget that. Today, the world, Europe and the NATO Alliance face completely different challenges than they did 60 years ago, but let us not change history for that reason and forget what has happened. I've wondered why it often gets so negative focus when we discuss the Defense. In the press as well as in the social debate, there is very often a negative focus on what is involved in the defence. That's too bad. At least let's not contribute to these misery descriptions in this room. Instead, I want to pay tribute to all the positive things that happen in the defense every single day. In fact, we are in the process of getting a very modern defence in Norway, internationally. Thousands of employees — military and civil — have been undergoing enormous transformations. Let's not forget that. There is a reason why our forces are in demand in international operations. It's probably not because we have a defense in crisis, but because we have a modern and up-to-date defense. Let me then link some comments to two so-called information issues in the budget proposal from the Government. The first concerns the Heavy Maintenance Workshops of the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO). The previous big business decided to transform these heavy maintenance workshops into state/private limited liability companies and to separate them from the Defence Organisation. I am now very happy that the new government does not want to go further with this. The Heavy Maintenance Workshops in the FLO shall continue to be part of the Defence Logistics Organisation and of the Defence. Now the employees can use the time to screw belt cars and fighter aircraft instead of sitting in project groups and project organisations. - Good, Councillor! The second case concerns the closure of the 335-square drone on Gardermoen. The idea of the last Minister of Defence was like one – in a defence debate it must be allowed to say that – three-step rocket. The first was the closure of large parts of the defence business at Kjeller in order to sell land there. The other thing was to move this business to the Gardermo. The third was to lay down the 335-square on the Gardermoen and build it up again on the Back. Unfortunately, Stortinget was on this path. Some of us tried to warn against it. Putting down a new, modern airstation to then spend a lot of money rebuilding it again seems strange, and it's at a time when the defense is going to dispose of a lot of building mass, while we haven't realized what's going on with future transport aircraft, or how long we're going to have today's Hercules C-130. The fact that the government now says in the budget proposition that new cost calculations show that moving the 335 square means a significant additional cost is not surprising. It would be quite natural to see this matter in connection with the next long-term defence plan, as the government writes in the budget proposal. Once again, good, councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e933	There is not so much to add at this stage of the debate, just a few comments relating to international operations, to stress that I do not disagree with the Council of State that it is the foreseeable expenditure to be included in the budget. I agree that something so unpredictable as whether there will be any operation in Darfur cannot be anticipated in the budget. We are sincerely hoping that it will be possible for the United Nations to gain access to Darfur, but that is probably not the reason for all the world to be optimistic. However, with regard to the operation in Lebanon, which was cleared before the Government's last budgetary conference, I think it was definitely predictable. If it was not scheduled for the budget conference itself, it was at least likely at the moment when the budget was presented, and that means that in that case an additional number should have been promoted. as soon as possible because any budget is to be realistic. However, when you didn't choose to do so, it's up to me to judge it, together with the government's simply not being able to balance its budget – hence the whole operation on the sickness pay scheme. But this was one of several expressions that the government didn't have a very good grip on the budget at the end of the process. So another aspect that concerns Afghanistan. There has not been any important part of this debate, and this is because we have just had a debate on Afghanistan. This does not mean that not much of the Storting is very concerned that Norway has to take its share of the burden. It must be fairly clear from what we have heard recently, that some of the countries that are at risk, for example. Canada, probably would have wanted more people to be there too. I don't think it's a good argument that you're engaged north in Afghanistan. It's very good that you are, but it shouldn't be too hard to get involved in the south if you have capacities, and we do. Nor do I think there is any argument that you go to Kabul Airport, or have set up the reaction force. Also, it's very good, but it can't be a distortion to set up. Now I see it this way in the government that it will consider coming back in the next round, and in confidence it has not been the basis for making more of it now. However, NATO's commitment to Afghanistan must be said that the fact that we now have the civil more in focus, of course, is no argument against NATO's operation. Yeah, that's actually how you started. It was with the major donor country conferences immediately after the military operations that we all hoped and believed that was what we could focus on. Who should be criticised for having failed in the civil field and not being on the high ground can certainly be the subject of a debate. Should it be the UN or the EU or the World Bank or the Afghan authorities? That's another side of the matter. The only one who can't at least be critical of, it's NATO, doing his part of the job. And when someone claims that at this point you see that military resources alone do not solve the problem, you have to be able to answer that no one has claimed either. The point is that these things are going to jump, and the civil part should be done better all the time. So, finally, about investment. I attach great importance to the Government saying that parts of what should have been invested within this four-year period are being pushed out of this period. There is sufficient reason for me to light the warning lights, because it is important that we keep pace with investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e946	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e949	Without pre-empting the 2007 Defence Study from the Defence Committee, I would say that today we have focused on a possible political undercoverage. Let's take a look at the second part of the rank of the head of defense, which is clearly about military domination. Let's take it a little bit seriously. Maybe some of the investments that we've been pushing at can be tested by letting them stand out for a year or two. Then we can see if we really need them. We must be able to do it. As I said earlier today, we know that alliance commitments can also provide economic benefits. We can have economics left to cooperate. It may also be assumed that both operating costs and investment costs may be challenged. Our task here is to find them, so we can save money. One must be able to bear the pressure to invest. And then we'll see, when this might come up again in the next round, if it'stands'. Purchases of aircraft have been mentioned in the debate by several. At least what we can say about this is that it has been more real competition. There's no doubt about it. We have developed several and good options. And of course, as Tybring-Gjedde said instead, we're going to have to discuss what kind of aircraft we're going to buy, based on the threat assessment. We know that it's not in the military field that there's a hurry to buy planes. It may be urgent in the field of trade policy. After a lot of visits around the country, we have received some feedback, for example. that the FLO should become better acquainted with itself. That would save a lot. Myrli was in on this with maintenance. In a workshop in Bjerkika, for example, it became clear that they are good. If they only get custody, there is no problem for them to participate in this work and do a decent and good job. This allows one not to invest in anything else. You can also keep going and renovating. They're capable of doing that. They only want foresight. This may also lead to the failure of State units to compete in the so-called private market. There is no win to win by competing there. We have also received feedback from Halkavarre and partly from Andyya rocket launch field that we must use them ourselves. We know that if there is a serious Norwegian use of these areas, and if we are able to attract allies who want to use them, it will in the long run be possible to keep them going, for example. Andøya and Halkavarre. But then we have to give them care. At least we have to use them. And then we'll see if we can also attract allies. Finally, a few words about the new Article 5 situation, which was launched in Riga, by Tony Blair. It is about a possible energy crisis, led from the situation in Ukraine where Russia shut down the cranes and threatened that if they did not pay, osb. This can give Norway, which sells energy, new challenges: Our normal allies are – whether we like it or not – buyers of energy. We can get into the situation that this can bring up new threat images.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e968	Social security is important. Security policy today is much more than safeguarding and defending its own territory. We're facing a much more diffuse threat picture than before. There are moving transitions between national and international organisations, and perhaps also in the case of armed conflict and war. This requires that on the broad front we strengthen the work on social security. The Bondevik government issued important messages in the previous period, and the Stortinge gave its support to them. It is important that the policy confirmed in these messages be followed up. I look forward to the evaluation of Exercise Oslo and the lessons we can draw from it. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government has given positive signals for a Norwegian participation in a UN-led operation in Africa. The Christian People's Party has stated that Sudan points out as a current area of intervention in a Norwegian contribution. Unfortunately, it seems that there is a long time left before the situation in Darfur and South Sudan is stabilized, but the Christian People's Party will support the Government if a decision is made to send Norwegian forces into this area when the time comes. As I said in my post, we must have a further modernisation of the defence. We need to find the balance point between structure, level of ambition and resource access. The representative Sverre Myrli spoke in his article about a three-step rocket. The 335 squadron was mentioned because it's part of this rocket image. I cannot agree with the conclusions of the representative Myrli here, and the boast that the Council of State got. I mean, unlike Myrli, the Stortinget made a good decision. It should be at hand. I have also noted the Committee's comments – or non-comments – about this. The Committee only leaves what is in the budget. It has therefore not addressed this problem at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e986	This has been a debate that has shown that there is a great deal of consensus in the United Kingdom about defence. The government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left continue to have broad defence cooperation in Stortinget. There has been a great deal of agreement on achieving the targets we have already achieved, on tough transitions – we have 5 000 fewer employees in Defence now, there is 2 million m2 of less land – and there is a great deal of agreement that what lies ahead of us is also going to be tough roofs. The economy is still under control. It's also important in conversion times. Only the Progress Party will stand on the side bar. Yeah, they're standing across the side line. When I heard the post of the representative of Bredvold, it reminded me of a necrolog across the defence. But it is not possible to be so defensive and have such a defensive attitude towards a budget of 31 billion kroner! As we have also heard in the debate today, when the Progress Party has been in position, they have had no more than one penny for the defence budget, but when they are in opposition, they have a lot of money, both for the domestic budget and for a foreign budget. There's no way they're going to bet on the defense. I also think it is strange that they will cancel the agreement with the JSF, because the Progress Party has been participating in that agreement for many years. We've actually spent quite a few hundred million dollars, and they've supported it. But now, when we get better industrial agreements, when we get more competition there are also other aircraft that are involved, then suddenly you have to be out of the picture. I think it is exciting what the representative of Dørum says about the protection obligation. If we are to have a modern defence, we must also look at the duty of protection and how it can be modernised. It is also very important that we now manage strategic air transport with others. I am not a stranger to the fact that we need to look at forms of cooperation also in other areas in the future, in order to get more out of the money that the Committee and the Stortinget believe it is right to grant to the Defence. I can't see what Jan Petersen means that it's going to be so difficult to handle both FS07 and a broad political-restricted sample. This should make the job easier for us when we deal with the long-term plan in 2008. That debate is going to be much more difficult than the debate we have had today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1006	First, I just want to answer the representative, Jan Petersen, with regard to the budget for Lebanon. It was not finally clear when the state budget was presented. That's why it's not inside. So some answers to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who had many unanswered questions. So do we. That's why the government is following the plan put forward by Stortinget to present to the Stortinget a case on fighter aircraft in the spring of 2008. The government is now working on a conceptual solution for the future fighter aircraft capacity. Here we look at different options that can meet our fighter aircraft needs. For my part, I am convinced that a modern and effective fighter aircraft will be an essential part of a modern defence, and that it will be part of a defence structure in the future as well. The government has not made a decision, either on the type of aeroplane to be purchased or on what, if any, is to be compensated for by F-16 at the end of their lifetime. All of the processes we're in now, and the investigations we're doing now, we have to create the best possible foundation for the decisions. The government will decide by the end of the year whether to sign the production agreement. If we sign the production agreement, it will not mean that Norway is obliged to acquire JSF aircraft in the future. This agreement may be terminated at 90 days' notice. We will bear the costs until we are formally out of the program. Our share is divided into annual contributions, and for 2007 the Norwegian expenditure will be at the base of US$4 million. If Norway signs this agreement, we will look at the appropriate political and economic follow-up measures we can take with the other candidates. But the government will decide on this first if we choose to sign. The other candidates are JAS Gripen and Eurofighter. The applicable buy-back rules will be maintained and maintained as requirements, although the cooperation models are somewhat different for the different candidates. I would also like to stress that the Defence Committee is invited to be briefed on this project. It's a big project, which is of great interest. That invitation is pending.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1021	I think this has been a good debate – a rarely long and rich debate on defence. We've been on for almost three hours. This debate has been avoided quite quickly in the past year. I don't know why, but it's at least been a big commitment. I think that's very nice, but as I said, it's a little rare. The debate was a bit of a district policy at the end of the day, but we have to endure it in an assembly like this, and with the representatives present, it is going well. As for our involvement in Afghanistan, I fully agree with Jan Petersen. This is a great test for NATO. NATO is our cornerstone for maintaining peace, not only in our own country, but in all other countries. If we fail in Afghanistan, NATO fails. This is very serious, not least with Norway's eyes. We're totally dependent on having a good relationship with NATO. Still, it is incomprehensible to me that we do not send our special forces to South Afghanistan just to back up not least the Canadians, who do a little hopeless war there, because they are too few. There we have the opportunity to participate, and it's not useful to say that we can send them to the spring or to the summer. That's now, and that's now we have to try to end this war. With regard to Signe Øyes' attack on the Progress Party, I do not understand that. She's talking about now that we want to end this relationship with payments to Lockheed Martin, i.e. this MoU. We have said this in the last two years – but obviously Signe Øye has not got it – and Signe Øye's government partner SV. In fact, I assume that SV is also voting for our proposal this time. I can't see that there's something that's changed in that way. So when the head of defense says he needs $1.6 billion to maintain today's level, the Progress Party has proposed this. We want at least to maintain the level of the day. We should have done it even better – if it had been possible. This obviously does not want the Workers' Party. So the working party wants to downgrade the defense, and it really surprises me. With regard to the development agreements, we ask the Government to wind up cooperation with the JSF in today's form. It's possible we can change it and get it in a slightly different form. At the same time, we ask for a development agreement with JAS Gripen, of which SV is so concerned – if they want to buy planes at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1034	Conscientious misunderstandings need to be clarified, and the debate should be slightly extended. The representative Holten Heimdal was able to state that she was far from agreeing with my conclusions. It would have been an advantage if she had heard what I said. I referred to what the Government is briefing on in the budget proposal, that there will be a significant extra cost associated with moving the 335 square in relation to what it was at the time the Stortinget made its decision, and that one signals that one comes back to this in the next long-term plan. The government, as I interpret the matter, has not drawn any other conclusions on the issue. So a unanimous committee has taken this a notam and has no counter performances against it. One thing is that co-representatives do not listen to what other representatives say, but one must at least expect a reader to have committee positions, seas if one's party has no representative in the committee. We'll get back to this discussion, as I said, in the next long-term plan. And then Holten Hemdal can fight for his vision, and I can fight for my vision, and then others can fight for his vision – if at all we need a transport quadron when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1043	I just have some comments – to the state council's comments on my post. As regards the production MoU and information for Stortinget, I repeat that it was said in the proposition that it was during the autumn of 2006. I also received a two-time answer in my question to the Council of State, no later than three weeks ago. Now the state council says in the course of the year. So it's something else. So the cost of pulling. I have requested the cost of withdrawing once you have signed the production MoU, not the cost of signing the production MoU – that is 4 million. dollar, we've got that now. But I wonder what the cost is of pulling, for example. in 2008, in 2009, in 2010. In the answer I got, there was a whole series of assumptions, and you couldn't get to any amount. But it is absolutely essential that this amount is stated there, clearly, on the day you sign it. And if the Americans can't give that amount, the Americans actually have to find that amount and tell Norway what it's going to cost. The Council of State further stated that surrender requirements apply. No, it actually doesn't. Then the Council of State is not properly informed. Thus, in the case of JSF, it is ‘best value’ or ‘strategic best value’. That's the two options you have. There is no buy-back in the case of JSF. And a little bit of the whole point of the whole deal with the United States is that you have to compete for deliveries that can be big, that can be small, that can be nothing. This has therefore been added with the ‘strategic best value’, which should mean that it is not just ‘best value’, that is, the best value of what is offered, but that it should be considered strategically for all the countries involved in the development. What I would like the Council of State to bring back to the Department is the question of whether or not one might be able to negotiate industrial agreements with the US authorities and not be unilaterally focused on Lockeed Martin. Lockheed Martin does not buy weapons, they buy parts of their weapons systems, while the U.S. authorities acquire entire weapons systems and platforms – therefore this with NSM, which is now integrated with the JSF, the U.S. fighter aircraft, which can make this a major and good industrial agreement for Norway, which really means something to R & D in Norway. When the Council of State further says that all four candidates should be persecuted, I expect this industrial agreement with the JAS to be signed, and that phase 1 at Eurofighter will be signed at the same time. But that's just going to make the decision even more difficult in the future, because then there are a lot of Norwegian companies that want to connect to different candidates, and that stand there and produce and develop subsystems that will be cancelled the day we decide for one of the planes. That'll make it even harder, so we have to be aware of that. So I'd like to talk a little bit about resource use. In fact, when you are going to get industrial agreements for 40 to 50 billion dollars, you have to use some resources to get it done. It would have been totally unheard of in the private industry to get that type of contract and use so little resources to get it done. And it's not exactly active enterprise policy The government boasts – it's not active business policy to have a two-three-five people trying to get 40-50 billion dollars in industrial agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1060	Bear Jacobsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1063	We are not going to vote for the Progress Party's proposal, but it is precisely because the Government has done such a good job! The government has given several options. That's what we're primarily looking for, and we're going to hope that the Progress Party can be satisfied with that. So a little bit about international operations. Things happen in Afghanistan, not least, things have happened in the city of Musa Qala, to which it was referred in the International Herald Tribune last Sunday. A month ago, the Afghan government made an agreement with the local seniority council that NATO should not be present here, nor the Taliban. Here you get a zone of clearance. If people from the Taliban were to enter the city, they would be there without weapons. We see that there are demands from other places in Helmand Province, almost like a Pandora's box, to reach the same agreement – an agreement to enter into political discussions, not engage in a war of action, but get into political processes. Here's the proof that this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1072	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1075	Yeah, I'm a listening politician. I therefore listened carefully to the representative Myrlis both first and second posts. But I do not agree when the representative Myrli says “good, councillor” in relation to the movement of the 335-square – this is no deliberate misunderstanding, as I heard Myrli’s posts. Questions were asked whether the representative Hemdal has read the statement, since she is not represented in the committee. Yes, I have, I even have pink and yellow patches where it's about the 335 square, because it's important. So carefully, the representative Hemdal has read the setting. We'll take the battle in a later time. But I think the decision that has been made is good. It was my challenge to the Council of State in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 933]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1100	As rapporteur, I would like to add a few words to this matter. The preventive security service is defensive in nature and consists of physical, organisational, personnel and logical measures aimed at preventing espionage, sabotage and terrorist acts from being carried out against vulnerable information or objects. The responsibility for the provision of preventive safety services lies with the national safety authority, abbreviated to NSM. In the civil sector, the Ministry of Justice has overall responsibility. Similarly, the Ministry of Defence has overall responsibility in the military sector. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence has the administrative responsibility of the National Safety Authority and the administrative responsibility of the Security Act. Safety clearance is the key precautionary safety measure in the field of human safety. This measure means that a person who is able to access security-graded information is controlled to identify the security qualification. Security clearance shall be implemented when a person will be able to access classified information, as specified. Security Act § 19. A person who has been declared safe must obtain a specific authorisation for this prior to contact with security-graded information, cf. Paragraph 23, fifth paragraph. Authorisation may be granted if there is no information that leads to doubt that the person is safe to trust. While the safety clearance is centrally carried out by a clearing authority, the authorisation is held locally by the organisation where it is planned to contact the person with classified information. Contact with classified information therefore requires a two-stage process where first a security clearance by the clearing authority and then authorisation by the organisation where the specific contact with classified information will take place. This type of clearance, which is practised in Norway, is often referred to as level clearance. Today there are a total of 68 clearing agencies. 59 of these are in the administration, the others are in the Stortinget, the National Audit Office and the courts. It is clear that there is a need to reduce the number of clearing authorities. The government has assessed four different models for the conversion of today's structure. The result has been that the Ministry wants an adjusted continuation of today's model. A merger of the county clearance authority means that there will be 16 fewer. Furthermore, if the departments also intensify their delegation practices, it appears that the number of clearing authorities in the administration can be almost halved. This can happen at the same time as the sectoral principle is respected. The Progress Party sees it as an inappropriate situation that there are currently 68 Clearing Authorities. The Party considers that it is appropriate to minimise this number of authorities in order to ensure that this type of case is treated as equally and professionally as possible. We would therefore like to join a joint clearing house at NSM, but believe that specific aspects of the intelligence service organisation mean that they also need to maintain their clearing authority. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party for decisions included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1117	The representative Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1120	In spring 2005, the size of the incident dealt with a draft resolution on changes to the Safety Act. The proposition identified deficiencies in the proceedings of several clearing authorities. Therefore, following an overall assessment of the perception that an adjusted continuation of today’s clearing system will be the best solution. The proposal implies the continuation of today's system whereby the departments are the clearing house within their sphere of competence, while the departments are tightening up their delegation practices. In addition, it is proposed that the County Clearing Authority of the County of Rogaland and the County of Oslo and Akershus should be brought together. I note that the objective is that these two measures should contribute to an approximate halving of the number of clearing agencies in the administration. At the same time, the departments will retain their important role as security officer in their own sector. I note that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party want one common clearing authority within the National Safety Authority, with the exception of the Intelligence Service. The right-hand member of the Committee, for his part, wants two clearing authorities – one for the civil sector and one for the military sector. For this reason, I would like to refer to the majority of the comments in the 2005 vote on the draft law. The majority expressed the view that, for a period of time, the Ministry should try to tighten up today's decentralised system. After what I understand, it's just such a tightening government now adding up. It is important that, for a period to come, the Ministry is now working to reduce the number of clearing agencies in the current system, as outlined in the Storing Report. I expect the Government to follow developments closely, so that the measures implemented are most effective. Should the reduction in the number of clearance authorities not be achieved, I am sure that the Government will consider further measures and that it may be appropriate to look into the other structural options discussed in the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1133	I think it's important to get an equal and professional treatment of these important questions, and record with pleasure that many people think it is necessary to get fewer instances into the picture. The last time this case was dealt with was more than right that the model should be two clearing bodies, one for the military and one for the civil. It was also a position that has been widely supported by many consultation bodies, including the Commission. LO, NHO, several municipalities, the Police Directorate, the Defence Department, the Defence Intelligence Service and approx. half of the departments. Now we're just going to see that it's okay to change our mind, and that, among other things. The working party no longer participates in this position. But I was encouraged that the representative Signe Eye was very aware that you should follow the practice and see if you get the simplification that everyone wants us to get, and I therefore see the opportunity to come back to the matter. For my part, I believe that the best reasons are for us to stand at the position taken in 2005 and will therefore address the proposal in the vote. However, I must point out that I am not fully aware of the premise that the Workers' Party has changed its mind. It is true that there is an overall assessment that has led to this position, but what this overall assessment should consist of is a little more secretive about. Well, it's got to be. Since the matter is still for observation, we will have the opportunity to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1144	The representative Jan Petersen has taken up the proposal he himself referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1166	Alcohol consumption in Norway is increasing. In recent months, I have seen the following headlines and issues in various newspapers. I would like to make it clear that the following statements and statements have been taken from various newspapers. The first is from the Evening Post on November 8th this year: ‘Young people attaching more’. Further, we can read: ‘One in three young people aged 15 to 17 has been drinking so much alcohol that they do not remember anything the next day, showing new figures from the Social and Health Directorate.’ And on the other hand, ‘In the early 1990s, a Norwegian youth drank about three litres of pure alcohol a year. Now they go down over five litres on average.’ Among the injuries of this drink are violence, accidents, unwanted and uncertain sex and other serious incidents. Another survey, in our country on April 25, reports that one in ten Trondheim students are showing symptoms of alcohol problems. Students drink so much that health experts go out and warn that more people drink so much that they are at risk of becoming alcoholics later in life. It is claimed that there is a strong drinking pressure in student circles. In our country on 19 August 2006, it says: ‘Elderly ones are more thirsty than before. Alcohol consumption among the elderly goes up.’ According to the Institute of Public Health, there is reason to be concerned because increased alcohol consumption in the elderly can cause organ damage and more falls, and more people use medicines that should not be combined with alcohol. This will increase the pressure on the health sector. On August 19, 2006, the newspaper says: ‘Fears continue to fill holiday beyond the fall. We've been drinking record music this summer, and well back at work and in studies, seminars are waiting and getting to know-party. It could be a problem for some people. The Nordics have had new drinking habits: we drink wine for the food and take a beer after work. At the same time, we keep the holy stuff. It's an interesting trend that many, in addition to the holy stuff, have added to continental drinking habits. There will be a large increase in consumption in total.’» And on the other hand, ‘There are kick-offs, seminars and ‘events’ where alcohol is served. Several working groups have up to half their alcohol consumption in job situations. Then you have to have quite a right back to not drink on problems after a while." These were so far a few selected statements from the daily press in the last six months. All of this gives cause for concern when we know the relationship between consumption and damage caused by alcohol. In a resolution of its national government meeting in May 2006, the Medical Association has said that alcohol is our biggest drug problem. The medical association is concerned that alcohol consumption in Norway is increasing, and the authorities and the social partners have been challenged to strengthen their efforts to prevent high alcohol consumption. In concrete terms, the Medical Association called for the maintenance of a restrictive alcohol policy, for young people to postpone their alcohol debut as far as possible and for their intake to be restricted. They also pointed to the AKAN estimate that up to 5 pst. by workers, drug consumption is so high that it could be detrimental to the job. According to the Red Cross, 200,000 children live with parents who rush. These are called the invisible children. As regards the situation in Europe and the rest of the world, figures from the World Health Organisation show that in 2000 1.8 million died. people for alcohol-related reasons worldwide. Alcohol-related deaths and disability account for 4 pst. of the total burden of the disease. Worldwide, alcohol causes about as much loss of health as tobacco in the form of lost years of life. In developed countries, alcohol is the third largest risk factor. According to the WHO, there is a causal link between alcohol and over 60 different types of injury and disease. The Ministers for Social Affairs and Health issued the following statement at the meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers in October 2004: ‘It is therefore important to limit increasing alcohol consumption from a public health perspective. Abuse of alcohol can cause serious harm and suffering at social level, and for individuals, relatives and innocent victims through, for example, violence, crime, drunkenness, child care failure, etc. Alcohol policy must be based on important values such as the protection of human life, respect for human dignity, social and personal responsibility, freedom for individuals and the protection of the family.» The Nordic initiative was launched in 2004. The aim was to work through Nordic cooperation to reduce alcohol-related problems and injuries, among others. by influencing international negotiations and processes based on a common understanding that alcohol is not any product, but must be regarded as a commodity with special health and social consequences. Further development of an effective alcohol policy at national level was also mentioned. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that increased globalisation and increased international trade have made it more difficult to maintain effective national and local alcohol policy instruments. The EU and WHO are two key institutions that take decisions that affect our alcohol policy instruments, such as the level of alcohol tax in EU countries, which in turn affect border trade and smuggling. The Nordic alcohol policy initiative of the previous government in 2004 helped to contribute to a separate alcohol resolution at the World Health Assembly in the WHO in 2005. This resolution requires the WHO Secretariat and the Member States to draw up analyses and recommendations. This now requires follow-up, unless Norway's efforts towards promising international cooperation on an effective alcohol policy are weakened. The pressure imposed by internationalisation on a small country such as Norway in the field of alcohol policy must be met through long-term international work. Alcohol policy has increased in recent years on the agenda both in the EU and the WHO, among others. because alcohol-related injuries are better documented. The EU presented its first alcohol policy strategy in October this year: Member States should be supported in reducing alcohol-related harm. The health effects of alcohol were confirmed. Also in the WHO, there is a desire and need to put in place an alcohol policy strategy. It is important to safeguard social interests in the face of a powerful alcohol industry, which is trying to influence both the EU and the WHO by countering the important work being done to reduce alcohol-related harm. Norway is not the other country. Our solidarity with alcohol policy is a model for Europe. The EU now starts its work and for the first time notes that alcohol has health and social consequences. When the European Commissioner for Health presented the measures, he said so eloquently: ‘It is not the products we oppose, but the products we abuse.’ He also referred to the protection of children and young people. Norway should focus on monitoring the work of the WHO bilaterally and within a Nordic framework. Within the framework of the Nordic initiative, Norway should be a driving force for the Nordic EU countries to follow up the EU’s alcohol policy strategy. Norway should also explore opportunities for wider alliances beyond the Nordic countries. The WHO needs to be supported both financially and in other ways to ensure that the task of monitoring and reporting alcohol-related harms and reporting on the most effective means of combating them can be implemented. The World Health Assembly in May 2007 will be an important milestone for the continuation of the Nordic initiative. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State do to follow up the Nordic initiative both in the EU and in the WHO?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1244	Fortunately, problems related to alcohol use are higher on the international agenda. This is true both in the World Health Organisation and in the EU, where the interpellant was involved. When the WHO Health Assembly examined the resolutions on the harmful use of alcohol in 2005, it was the first time in many years that the issue was on the agenda of the Health Assembly. However, the WHO European Region has been actively working on alcohol-related problems for many years. As early as 1973, the European Agency initiated an international study directed by Finnish and Canadian researchers. This study took on new research into how changes in average alcohol consumption in a country affect the extent of alcohol-related harm. The study led to a report on alcohol policy responses from a public health perspective, which became an important professional basis for action on alcohol policy in many countries. In 1983, the World Health Organisation adopted a resolution on the basis of this report and a committee of experts was appointed. It made recommendations that were considered controversial at the time, and the question did not come up again as a separate item on the agenda of the World Health Assembly until 2005. However, early in the 1990s, the WHO Regional Committee for Europe adopted the first European action plan on alcohol. The action plan — in an adapted version — is now part of the alcohol policy strategy adopted for the WHO Europe Region in the autumn of 2005. Following the adoption by the World Health Assembly of a resolution on problems caused by the harmful use of alcohol, several of the other WHO Regional Committees have set in motion plans similar to those of the European Region. That's good. I will not make any attempt – and that would have led too far – to address the causes of this detention, I would say, as has been shown in recent years from a number of countries. I will be careful to point out that measures to reduce health damage that can be caused by unlucky lifestyles are often controversial. We also see that in our own country. This may be partly because it affects people’s choices and partly because it affects economic interests that are partly strong. We know this not least from the work on both nutrition and tobacco also in our seams. Another reason I want to mention is that alcohol-related damage was long perceived as a problem that primarily affected industrialised countries. The government, like the inter-pellant, the Christian People's Party and probably more, wants to strengthen the emphasis on measures to prevent health damage. In the globalised world in which we live, it is becoming increasingly important to cooperate internationally to coordinate such prevention measures. If we are to get results, it is essential to find solutions that gather wide, but it is in this area that, with all international work, it requires patience. One of the first WHO documents to present so-called disease-adjusted living conditions was the World Health Report 2002, which was presented by the then WHO director Gro Harlem Brundtland, and was about risk factors for health. An out of 26 important risk factors were selected, and in that report alcohol-related health damage was ranked as the fourth most important. There were several aspects that were surprising in that report — firstly, that alcohol is the foremost of 26 risk factors in developing countries with low mortality rates, and secondly, that alcohol was ranked almost as high as tobacco as a global risk factor. As you know, alcohol has also been high on the EU agenda. Health authorities cannot fail to deal with a factor that so much contributes to increasing health problems across Europe. Both the interpellant and I are very well aware that the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Dagfinn Højbrätten, took an initiative in 2004 to coordinate Nordic policies in this area in international bodies. It was, from my point of view, a very important initiative to get even further into international work in this important area. The Health and Social Ministers decided to extend this cooperation agreement at the Ministerial Council this summer. This is what the representative says, that at the Health Assembly in 2007, the Director-General of the World Health Organisation will present a report on the work, based on the 2005 resolution. I can assure the representative that Norway is in close contact with the Nordic countries and other countries on how to monitor the issue at the Spring Health Assembly, but there is no doubt that this will be a very important meeting. The possibilities to influence the EU’s alcohol policy strategy, which the Commission has just presented, will be somewhat more limited on the Norwegian side, for reasons that are not least well known to the inter-pellant. However, I would like to inform you that there is good contact between Norway and the Nordic EU members on the follow-up to the Commission’s work. We also participate in the Commission's Committee of Experts on Alcohol at the level of officials and officials. Questions relating to the internal market and fees have been discussed by the finance ministers of the Nordic Council of Ministers, but Norway is not participating in these discussions in the EU as is known. It is primarily about rules that are not used in Norway, but where the indirect effects are significant for us as well. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of international cooperation in order to achieve results with the prevention of lifestyle-related health damage in general and harmful use of alcohol in particular. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the increased attention given to people affected by the irresponsible use of alcohol by others. In particular, children living in families where one or both parents abuse alcohol, as the interpellant was also involved. But it also applies to the many victims of accidents caused by other people's violence, and we have more than enough examples of that, not least here in Oslo. I would also say that the increasing use of violence we see among young people is largely due to harmful use of alcohol. I would say that broad international cooperation – in the Nordic countries, in the EU, in the World Health Organisation and, for that matter, in all other forums – will be an important contribution to reducing health problems and social problems caused by alcohol use. I want to assure the inter-pellant that the Government is following up the Nordic initiative in this very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1272	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. It is clear that the number of organisations, including large organisations, such as the World Health Organisation and the EU, has been very, very reluctant. I think, as the Council of State was aware, that the commercial forces are incredibly strong, and that they are probably much stronger in countries other than those we want to find here in Norway. After all, we have a pretty big uprising about our strict alcohol policy. I think in many cases that the industry also takes some responsibility for it, even though we have some debates. The council says we have to be patient. That's right. When you work internationally, it's not just to decide something in the Norwegian economy or in the Norwegian government, and it happens by itself. I believe that for so many years, the WHO has had this on the agenda, and that a new one was given there in 2005, not by itself either. There are some countries, some countries that have to feel responsible for that. I am proud that the Nordic ministers, with Dagfinn Høybrätten at the head, took the important initiative in 2004. It is also important that these processes are maintained. I am very pleased that the Council of State clearly and unequivocally says that this should be followed up, and that she has good cooperation with Nordic colleagues, both in view of the 2007 Health Assembly and in the follow-up to the EU Strategy. For a while back, in March of this year, Jan Bøhler asked a question to the Council of State in the Questionnaire. The Council of States then promised to look at Norway’s potential for action and what could be done to support the WHO’s work financially in this area. I think it may also be important, and I would like to ask the Council of State whether this has been assessed, and whether Norway can support this important work in such a way. Can the Council of State consider that, if she has not had the opportunity to do so now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1283	I just want to stress that the government is impatient to try to help find solutions if we have to be patient with international work in this area as well. We believe that we have something to contribute in Norway, sail if not everything is perfect with us either. That is why we are continuing the very good initiative of the Council of State Høybråten and his government took in its time. We do it in all the arenas, in the Nordic countries, in the EU, in the World Health Organisation and also in other forums, and we do it in close dialogue with different user organisations in this area, which I believe have a lot of positive input. I can assure you that these processes are mostly maintained. In terms of whether we can contribute financially in relation to the WHO, etc., there is something we are constantly assessing. We haven't finally concluded on it, but we have a very open attitude to it. If there's a need for that, and there's good reason for that, we're open to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1290	The interpellant travels in many ways a two-part debate. One part is in general alcohol policy, and the other, of course, is in cooperation at the Nordic ministerial level. Half of the debate is about our own alcohol policy and how it works, while on the other hand it is seen in a slightly more international perspective. I'll try to get into both. Initially, I would like to say that I think it is a little important that we assume that it is always mentioned that other countries are approaching Norwegian alcohol policy, that we are looking at the Nordic region. I think the representative Davøy as late as yesterday's alcohol debate showed that you look at Norway and the Nordic countries. What's the problem with that is that there's a sea of difference between the countries you're saying now starting to look at the North and starting to assess the limitations of your own alcohol policy, and the world we live in here. It is quite clear that Norway has at least one of Europe’s most stringent alcohol laws, especially if it includes the level of fees that we have in Norway. We have a significant form of regulation through the alcohol law and through the use of the charging system. For a number of years, we've seen several campaigns using a lot of tools, especially on the scares side, to get people not to drink alcohol. These have, with respect to reporting, proved to be ineffective. That's why I'm very happy that you've at least tried to think about something new, and that you've started to work up against young people. I think that if we're going to get a little bit further on this, it's the youth generation we're going to have to deal with, both in relation to the use of alcohol, in terms of how we drink, in order to get rid of the holy stuff, and not least in relation to the problem of violence and other things related to alcohol abuse. I don't think there's a single politician sitting in this room -- even if there's not so many people sitting here now -- who don't take on the fact that alcohol abuse causes harm -- because it does. Then the question is, how can we manage to limit the level of harm, so that we get the least possible damage from alcohol abuse? I think we have the most to pick up by going through youth. I also think we have a lot to pick up by looking at what trends we have, how young people experience their own situation, and what opportunities they have. But if we are to succeed in reducing alcohol abuse, we must have accepted in the population the means we use. Then it's also important that we not only use one or two different institutes every time we need to know something about alcohol. There are actors other than the Blue Cross and SIRUS out there that can also be used for investigations. I would also encourage you to look at other ways of checking these things, designing campaigns and getting this evaluated. Let's not least learn a little bit from abroad. Let's look at the countries that have run campaigns that have worked. Let's say, for example, look at Canada, which has a multi-year campaign that has produced results. Furthermore, I also believe that several of us were quite happy when we watched the Breakfast TV this morning. When we look over the cold to Sweden, we see that there has been a decline in alcohol consumption among young people in recent years. It seems at least I'm very positive. If we can take that trend further, it's one of the most important things we can do. I think it is very important that we work together across borders to learn from each other. The problem is that in the Norwegian alcohol debate we have locked ourselves in saying that it has been proven that availability and price are the only thing that works. I think there are other things that work as well. If a few people are to be accepted, they must also be able to use other tools, such as: awareness campaigns. But we have to stop using horror propaganda, we have to let something work over time. That is why I am very pleased that the entire committee and also the state council have confirmed that, among other things. The ‘Relax now’ youth campaign, developed by young people, will continue. I appreciate that very much, and I think that one of the most important things we can now build on is the way we communicate. But this is just one of many measures. I think we should learn from each other in the different countries, but we should also assume that Norway is not able to solve these problems alone. I look forward to the work to be done. I hope we can bring down the alcohol consumption, not least the abuse that we see. Everybody's earned it. The Oslo problem was mentioned here. Yes, for a while back, a campaign was launched, among other things. in the municipality of Kristiansund, where the police went out on weekends. We could read in the requirements of Time last week that there were no problems in the city that weekend, because there was a lot of police that was visible in the streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1307	There's a completely central health policy question interpellant travels. I'll give her credit for traveling it in the context of where it belongs, in the international perspective. Clearly, no matter what one might think of the degree of success of our Norwegian alcohol policy, the degree of freedom of action in each country is limited in relation to neighbouring countries and in relation to international policies in this area. I therefore agree with the inter-pellant that the initiative to achieve Nordic cooperation was a good and timely initiative. Already there we are facing considerable challenges, because the cultural differences between the Nordic countries are also very large, as we know. Denmark has a tradition that differs very clearly from the one we have in Norway and Sweden, just to give an example. At the same time, there is reason to note that when the inter-pellant expresses the wish for Norway to be a driving force for the other Nordic countries, which are members of the EU, to follow EU policies in this area, it never contains such a small paradox. It would have been a little bit easier to influence it if we had been with ourselves. The fact that the EU is developing an alcohol policy common to the Member States, I see for my part as a clear proof that EU cooperation strengthens the social dimension common to the EU countries. It is an unusually important contribution in itself, including the creation of a framework for a good Norwegian policy in this area. It is not difficult to agree on the extent of alcohol-related health damage. It is also not difficult to agree on the overall objectives of combating alcohol-related health damage. What is the great difficulty is to find out what means we have at our disposal, and how these means are to be dosed to give the best possible result. This is where the dilemmas lie. There are three instruments that have been used and are available. One is legislation. We have historical experience in Norway for an extremely restrictive use of legislation, the prohibition period. Experience with that time limit in no way repetitious. For over-using restrictive legislation regularly achieves the opposite of what is intended — stimulating illegal production, illegal placing on the market and even more damage to health. Then you have the possibility to charge. There is also a two-edged sword, for all experience shows that it is difficult to find the right balance point where charging policies contribute to reducing demand while not stimulating illicit trafficking and imports. Then there is the third instrument, which we in Norway have put heavily into, namely a State monopoly on the marketing of alcohol. It's also a two-edged sword. When this government, like the previous one, has invested in expanding the local sales network of the Vinmonopolet in Norway – at the latest yesterday it was justified to have equal access across the country, and that is an interesting point of view – it has to be noted that the Vinmonopolet has become the most successful state enterprise in that country. It's state-of-the-art, it's been streamlined, it's going down economically. But the big question is, how does this compare with the general policy of the state in this area? I think we're going to be honest enough to all admit that here an alcohol monopoly has become a pretty striking expression of what we in other contexts call double morality. It should really concern us all to discuss it a little bit more in depth than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1326	I also want to praise the interpellant for addressing an important topic. As the Minister for Health said, problems related to alcohol use are placed higher on the international health policy agenda in recent years. In part, it has been difficult to support measures aimed at reducing alcohol consumption through the two most effective regulatory mechanisms we have, namely price and availability. An important reason is probably that there are large industrial interests at stake: there is a lot of money in circulation and a lot of jobs to take care of. In addition, regulation plays a role that can be unpopular among many. Obviously, it can be annoying for people that the beer is expensive, or that the beer sale closes before the shop sails. However, it has proved to be quite a stir of many of the instruments we have used in Norway, perhaps because most of us realize that it makes sense to treat alcohol as something other than a regular commodity, in line with milk and bread. However, we see that there is a strong pressure in the more alcohol-liberal direction, and it is worrying that the cross-border trade argument is so pervasive in many places that it prevents states from pursuing a sensible alcohol policy. It will often be those countries that have the lowest fees or the most liberal rules that set the standard. We have seen this in Denmark, Sweden and Finland, to mention some countries. In Finland, prices were drastically reduced because Estonia was entering the EU, and Finland, as opposed to Norway, had very large import quotas. Import restrictions were to be removed because of the fear that these would lead to huge amounts of cheap liquor taking the short way over the Gulf of Bothnia from Estonia. The alcohol tax was reduced abruptly by one third and the high - premium by a total of 40 pst. According to social and health news in the Nordic region, the most common cause of death for adult Finns over 45 years of age is brain damage due to filling, and on average, the Finns drink themselves full, intentionally, 32 times a year. Fortunately, now the alarm bells are ringing in the hands of Finnish welfare politicians. A release of Analysis The Nordic region from the autumn gives a shocking picture of what a sharp fall in the price of alcohol can lead to, especially for the already marginalised social groups in Finland. This is a point in itself, because pretty much Finns have it quite well. But the last harvest showed that 20-30 pst. children in the metropolitan area grow up in families with abuse, violence, crime and other debauchery. This number has increased sharply in a very short time. Sense of the causes not only is an excessive consumption of alcohol, of course, it is a contributing cause. In any case, we can be absolutely sure that the drastic reduction in fees a few years ago has not improved the situation of these children, rather on the contrary. Therefore, the SV’s clear view is that we should have a clear child and social policy perspective on Norwegian alcohol policy. Norway has an important international role to play in supporting a sensible alcohol policy that does not set solidarity and public health aside for the benefit of less important and short-term needs. I am concerned about what will happen to Norwegian alcohol policy and Norway's driving role if there becomes a purely bourgeois majority after the next elections. The policy of the Progress Party is particularly one-sided. Hardly two sides of the financial position are argued for a reduction in alcohol taxes to Swedish level, without mentioning as much as the public health perspective, the child’s growing-up conditions or the crime caused by alcohol — nor harm. You have simply chosen to ignore it. It is bad that the party is not more interested in the massive research results we now have, but instead, as in environmental policy, is moving forward as if we did not know better. For the Government and us who belong to the majority of the Storting, it's at least important to focus on the research we have in this field, and we're going to continue the driving role that Laila Bavøy wants, and that, among other things. Dagfinn Højbråten has the honor of. We know enough. The authorities cannot fail to deal with a factor that so much contributes to increasing health problems in Europe, and more and more governments also see. The question is whether the Progress Party can do so. Alcohol abuse is damaging, said the representative Nesvik. Yes, of course. But how many people should be defined as addicts in the world of the Progress Party? Young people who need to be pumped because they didn't know where the limit went? Adults on the Christmas table who took the aqueduct on the tight arm and walked on the nose of the asphalt? Full people who kill themselves because of alcohol-enhancing love care, or who crash into the drunk? The use is also a problem, and we actually have to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1343	Last night we had a debate here in Stortinget where Norway was almost produced as a molar land by the Right Representative Martin Engeset. We were told that it almost threatened the local government that we wanted to have a national alcohol policy. That's why I'm asking myself some questions about whether there's so much consensus in the Storting, whether it's just the Advance Party that has a different alcohol policy. The right also wants increased sales and increased availability in this area, and that alcohol should be considered as a groceries equal to other things that we trade in the store. That was the impression we left behind yesterday, having participated in the debate that was about opening hours. I think the interpellant, Laila Davøy, drew a picture of the danger signals that we see in our own country, and we understand that youth is drinking more and more alcohol. We know that this will lead to increased health damage in the population. This will lead to more people falling outside, and it will increase our health budgets. The representative, Nesvik, comments on this by saying that there are also signals from other countries that alcohol is harmful and that some measures need to be taken and evaluated. But he adds in the same sentence that in the other countries the problems are so much bigger because there is so much more drinking. I feel that it is actually a huge challenge that we also have an increasing alcohol consumption in our country, which will also lead to increased health damage. Interestingly, the World Health Organisation places alcohol-related health damage as the fourth major health threat factor. As the Minister of Health said, in some developing countries it is actually the greatest threat. It is also interesting to see how market forces and strong participations market alcohol in many developing countries today. There have been many examples of this in the media. I believe that the Højbråten initiative a few years ago in the Nordic Council context is very good. I would like to compare it with the fight against tobacco damage, for which Højbråten took an initiative, and where one sees that many countries are actually following. We would like to talk about the small alcohol problems in Norway compared to the alcohol problems in other countries. In fact, I think there are other countries that also look at Norway precisely because we have conducted an alcohol policy that has restricted access and thus also affects minor health damage. But at the same time, I feel that there are, in fact, strong forces in the Storting that want to liberalize alcohol policy, even if a few signals from many other countries and also from other parts of the world that alcohol actually creates difficult problems. I am pleased that the Government will continue this important work internationally and address this problem in the forums where it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1358	As the interpellant was so pleasant to mention, I asked a similar question in the questionnaire before the summer. I agree with what Bavøy said in her post, and am very pleased that she is putting pressure on these issues and bringing forward many new facts, new information and helping to give us a convincing picture. It is quite right that alcohol is a growing problem worldwide, not least in developing countries, where it is increasingly coming in. I support Davøy where she followed me up by saying that we must also contribute resources to the work of international organisations at this point. There may also be initiatives that should be taken in UN contexts other than only in the WHO, for example. in UNESCO. I believe it is important that Norway continues to be a strong international example of a good, preventive and restrictive alcohol policy and that we need to improve that policy. What we should be discussing is how we can improve on being an example, and not adapt to the international situation, whether it is in Europe or in the world. We must make sure that this important debate on the international aspect does not become a sleep cushion. It is easy to discuss the international aspect and agree on the adverse health effects when we talk about others, but we also need to talk about ourselves and make sure that we are still a strong and convincing example. When you talk about double standards and ways of communicating, which Harald Tom Nesvik was in, I have to say that the consequence of what we discussed yesterday, in many municipalities, would actually be beer sales all day to young people who are at a party, and who can take a walk in and fill out the night with a box of beer. I know what such a situation would mean here in Oslo. This is discussed as if you were discussing your own need to get beer at any time, not from a broad prevention effort towards vulnerable groups who do not have the same management of their behavior pattern as some of the speakers thought they had. It is suggested that more than half an hour and a half at night, as it is now in Oslo – I was in a television debate recently where the Right amongst others. launched it. You go in for wine at the shops, which I perceive both the Right and the Advance Party are in favour. Lower taxes, adaptation to the European level of taxes, are included – which was carried out at the previous meeting of the Right and before the previous election – to 18-year-olds. When this is the political picture you stand for nationally, I think it's going to be a way of communicating. When you worry about the adverse effects and developments internationally, it becomes a double standard, and it becomes difficult for the young person we're going to influence, to stick to what you're actually communicating with. In particular, I think the Progress Party is talking about something else. They will take the lead in prevention youth campaigns, but only the five points I mentioned now with changes in alcohol policy in a dramatically negative direction show a completely different practice. There will be a great distance between speech and practice. There is one point when we talk about improvements in Norwegian alcohol policy, where I think we should compare ourselves with other countries, and where we should look more closely at what is the Norwegian situation in relation to the international situation, and that is the tipping policy. Divorce policy represents the full signal effect on large youth groups and the rest of the population in terms of alcohol use. We read reports that while it's quiet and quiet on the street in New York in the 23-24s, it's when young people begin to move into the Oslo center, because here are 500 venues open until midnight. Half past four at night. You can compare and see how you've got this in other countries. We who have been visiting different European cities see that the situation is different beyond the evening, that it is not the drinking culture that has now evolved – not just in Oslo, we have heard similar stories from Kristiansand, Bergen, Tromsø, etc. It could be interesting also to turn the other way around, see how we're dealing with the international situation, so we don't just think that we have everything in order, while other countries are so bad. On some punks we also have our problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1378	You would sometimes think that you had a discussion about whether you were for or against alcohol. What you have to ask yourself is, why do we have the kind of culture we have today? And why is it that other countries have a completely different kind of culture? I know that many will claim that socialism as such is the greatest influence in relation to today’s drinking culture and our attitudes to alcohol, among other things. through the prohibition period. But I think we need to go much further back in time to find a reasonable answer. I actually think we have to go as far back as the Reformation. Because looking at what happened during and after the Reformation, there is little doubt that the dividing line went between the Protestant countries of the North and the Orthodox countries of Eastern Europe, and it went between the Protestant countries of the north and the Catholic countries of the south. That's the largest division line we have. The story we've gone on. This led to a rather strict alcohol policy in the Nordic countries. The Nordic countries once had some common policies in this area, and the biggest breach here has occurred through the EU and by the fact that other Nordic countries have become members. There's our challenge today. For today, we are clearly distinguished from the other Nordic countries, both in terms of taxes and price levels of alcohol. It's kind of nice to hear that the Progress Party is accused of both the one and the other, that we ignore the adverse effects of alcohol, once we've actually stood up here and raised the opposite. If one compares social democracy and the Christian People's Party in Norway with other Christian-democratic and social-democratic countries, it is not so difficult to find countries that have the same alcohol policy as the Progress Party wants. So in many ways you can compare to what you want. Another side of this case is that we all see that we have challenges, we have problems with our alcohol policy, but we've got them despite the fact that the Progress Party has never been in a real power position in this room. It makes no sense, then, to use this taboo right and say that we are the ones who have a bad attitude to the problem of alcohol, when there are actually completely different parties that have adopted the policy we have. Instead, you should be a little more humble and be able to see something more nuanced on the problem. In addition to Finland, which wants to set up minimum taxes and taxes on alcohol, I wondered which other countries are looking at Norway. Which other countries really want to introduce Norwegian taxes and Norwegian alcohol price levels? Other countries do not have the same starting point as Norway: huge surplus on their national budgets. They could easily get it by implementing it. Despite this, one chooses to view alcohol as a product that is legally sold from both shops and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1395	I would like to thank colleagues in Stortinget for a good debate. I have some comments, not least to the Progress Party. Harald Nesvik said that there are considerable differences between Norway and other countries in terms of alcohol policy — and that is the case. It is also because we have a more stringent alcohol policy that we have fewer injuries in Norway. There's a context here. I think it's incredibly important that we look at the documentation and the research we have. I started working with alcohol policy over 30 years ago as a local politician in my own municipality, and the increase in access to increased consumption has been a guide for all these years. That the representative Nesvik feels that we're stuck in this, gets to be, reality is actually like that, even though the Progress Party doesn't like it. Campaigns – as the Advance Party goes for in all contexts – are also not enough. In fact, it is our strict alcohol policy that is the most important means of reducing damage in Norway, and that makes other countries actually look at Norway. The representative Fredriksen mentioned Finland. Yes, it is no wonder that they want to set up the levy, because they have had an explosion in alcohol-related violence and alcohol-related deaths after reducing the levy two years ago. So a few words about wine monopoly. It is clear that in Norway wine monopoly is an alcohol policy instrument. And it is true that there are forces in Norway – as we hear from this pulpit too – that want to have both wine and spirits in the shops, at least wine. We're against that. If it had been up to me alone – which it is not at all, unfortunately – I would like to have beer on the Vinmonopole too, because then we really had a wine monopoly system that we could say was a really good alcohol policy tool. But I'm not suggesting it from this pulpit, and I would probably never have had a majority for it. But, as I say, if I had decided, I would suggest it for the sake of children and young people. Then you can still question whether the Council of State is going to take a hard time when she wants 100 new poles. There'll always be a discussion about how many. I can imagine asking the Council of State – by the way, I have asked about it in writing as well – what advice the professional bodies have given with regard to 100 new poles, and what the monopoly itself says with regard to industrial policy, they are going to operate commercially, in relation to establishing 100 new poles. Finally, I would like to ask that the Council of State really look at Jan Bøhler's proposal, namely to examine the gist policy in Norway in relation to other countries. It could have been very, very exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1410	This is a very important debate, and I think we have revealed both through the debate we had here in Stortinget last night, and today's debate that in this case the dividing lines between the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party go on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. Left I'm not quite sure where is. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised when the representative Fredriksen here says – I don't remember it quite verbally – that socialism is the reason we drink a lot, and that the Progress Party is not in a real power position. No, not in the rest of the country, but in this city and in several other municipalities, the Progress Party is most in the real power position, and I'm actually dependent on that's what we're doing, as the numerator, and not what we're saying. Then it helps very little to hold speeches from this pulpit or from other interlocutors when the party in this city has demonstrably opened up a lot, there are spokespersons to expand the venues even more, laying down leisure clubs – as we know for good preventive work – which stands for a policy where one will lower the fees, which we know leads to. On the same side, the right side, as we heard in the debate here yesterday, was very concerned because German tourists could not be allowed to buy beer for the bratwurst at 0 p.m. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox With respect to reporting, I think this case is too serious to say a lot of things if one actually stands for something completely different in practice. And it's real -- you have the right to think different things, and you have the right to believe different things. I believe that this case is so important that I think we are wise to listen to researchers who say that alcohol problems have a very large connection with the price of alcohol, with how many outlets you have, opening hours, availability, etc. We hear the same from the police, who are concerned – not just in Oslo, but in many of our big cities – about the situation now, and we have it from users, we have it from users' organisations and many others. At least on behalf of the Government, I would like to say that we are listening very much to the signals coming, and I am proud that we have a relatively restrictive alcohol policy in Norway – at country level. Then I see some municipalities going a different way, and I mean we're going to take it very seriously. This is a challenge for local politicians. Then it is good to support during campaigns such as: «Take it easy now», which is aimed at young people, for which the Progress Party is calling for. I'm going to meet them, and we're also very positive about it. But it alone does not help if one stands for a policy that proves that more people will have alcohol problems. I fully agree with representatives who have said that it is not only misused that is the problem, but also the use. It is the use of a casual Saturday evening or Friday night that makes young people abused, that women are raped, and that there is misery, for example. in this city. Then one has to choose. If you take one of them in, it's important to do something about it. Of course, if one chooses not to take it over, it is also a choice, but it is not a choice that the Government will recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1421	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1439	There are still reports of unworthy conditions for drug addicts. In particular, there are long waiting times for detoxification, but there are also long waiting times for treatment. Defects are identified in the treatment provision provided to drug addicts in the specialist healthcare service, and weaknesses in the protection of drug addicts have also been identified after the end of treatment in the specialist healthcare service. There are 11,000–15 000 injecting drug users in Norway. In 2005, 184 people died of overdose. Drug use has serious consequences for individuals and children, relatives and other families. The overall objective of the 2004 drug reform was to provide drug addicts with a better and more comprehensive service provision, with a focus on interdisciplinary, holistic approach and individualised treatment. Unfortunately, more people working in the sector claim that the challenges remain high. Guidelines for who are rights-spacers were withdrawn earlier this year, not least because there was a great deal of uncertainty when it came to finding out who was to be defined as rights-spacers. I'm glad the Council of State did it. But unfortunately, time is running out now, and there is still a lot of uncertainty in the field in this area. It is therefore important that the new guidelines currently being developed be given high priority in terms of completion. Points where it fails are referred to as detoxification, as produced in St.prp. No 1 and that missing detoxification sites have a bottleneck effect, i.e. effective use of capacity at higher levels of care is effectively prevented. In the Oslo Center in July this year, 90 patients who knocked on the door for detoxification were rejected. The tragic thing about this was that vacant spaces were empty, for example. at P22, due to a large reduction in government grants. Municipalities also fail in post-employment protection in terms of housing, leisure activities, education and employment, which are crucial factors for the functioning of post-employment protection. So there are still some defects in the treatment being given. Several drug institutions have been supervised by State health authorities and there is evidence of a lack of competence as one of the reasons why treatment is not targeted. According to an interim evaluation report by IRIS, commissioned by the Social and Health Directorate, the implementation of the legislation has also created considerable differences in the availability of drug addict services. As I know, the final evaluation from IRIS comes in mid-December. Private non-profit institutions have not been part of this evaluation. They have not been in the reference group, they have not been asked for input, nor have they been included in the evaluation. A separate evaluation of that type of institution should be carried out at a later stage. I think it's a little special if not the whole drug field, including the private non-profit institutions, is now evaluated at the same time and in the context. After all, they offer many thousands of drug users per year. To take one example, only Kraft institutions, which is one group, have nearly 30,000 client days per year. However, the IRIS report highlights the need to clarify the role and function of private non-profit drug institutions, i.e. those institutions which have not entered into contracts with health establishments or which have only some places in agreement with health establishments. They currently perform two main functions: they provide services either independently of the need for measures in the specialist healthcare service, or pending treatment in the specialist healthcare service. The IRIS report calls for the central authorities in the further work to address these institutions in order to further develop the response apparatus for drug addicts. The Christian People’s Party meets the notified evaluation of the drug reform, including an evaluation of voluntary non-profit institutions, of course also involving them in the evaluation. It is important to identify areas that have not been adequately addressed and to take action to correct errors or adverse effects. Today, the institutions we're talking about are funded in different ways. Firstly, more appropriations are allocated by the Directorate for Social and Health. Others get funds from municipalities, and some have an agreement with the specialist health service about some places. A key challenge with funding is that it is not predictable and therefore creates considerable uncertainty for the future of these institutions. There are big differences in the amount each municipality pays for a stay. It's no longer an indicative price, as we had before, and municipal excesses don't exist either. Now it's probably very easy for the Council of State and others to say – I see the Wall smiling a little: Who was it that carried out the drug reform? It is true that the previous government took the initiative. Equally full it is now well over one year, perhaps beyond two years, since implementation. It was therefore important for the previous government to keep an evaluation under way. It's important now to stick our finger in the ground and look at where we are in the drug reform, and what we're going to do next. The Christian People's Party is very happy to have 20 million in place. kr in the next year’s budget to strengthen the offer of private non-profit drug institutions. But this doesn't give them the role and function that is missing. These institutions contribute important competences and knowledge and need to be guaranteed a role and function, not because the institutions are an objective in themselves, but because they actually play an important role in the provision of drug addicts. The personal commitment that also characterizes many of these institutions is an important quality, and we need the diversity we have today. Not least, low-skin roofs are important; they have been and are still. This must not be hindered by strict referral procedures. In the context of the drug reform, the size has explicitly pointed out that emergency treatment must take place without necessarily following referral procedures, for example. medical or social service referral. There is actually a need for open doors, doors that open when the addict stands there. Based on the findings of the evaluation of the drug reform, the long-term alerting of the escalation plan for the drug field should also provide guidance for private non-profit drug institutions to find their legitimate place. Important knowledge and competences held by these institutions must not be lost. At the very end of the article, I want to say a few words about what characterizes the institutions that we are talking about here. Initially, the institutions were set up by fire brigands to give drug addicts a valuable offer. Among other things, institutions in many places constitute an offer to people who do not have a satisfactory municipal offer. Many of them have been innovators. Over years of effort, they have identified unmet needs that they have flexibly set up to meet. So they were pioneers in a field long before the public came in and took the responsibility of public authorities today. Drug addicts must meet with a comprehensive treatment provision. It is important to ensure the diversity of a comprehensive treatment provision in the meeting with a group as diverse as drug users. The Christian People’s Party has proposed, in the budget setting by the Health and Care Committee, that rights-derogations should be offered an institutional space pending treatment in the specialist health service, in order to prevent the termination of the motivation for treatment. As it is today, there are monthly waiting lists, and the patients who are put on a waiting list for the specialist health service drop out when they have to stand so long and wait. That is why we want private institutions to be able to use them, and that it should be almost up to health businesses to use them. My question to the Council of State is this: what does the Council of State think to do to ensure the role and function of private non-profit institutions in the future, so that the important contribution these institutions can make to drug addicts can be continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1484	Let me first say that I agree with Mr Davøy that voluntary and private organisations are of great importance in the area of prevention and services. Therefore, both this government and former governments have given priority to providing such businesses with substantial support both for voluntary work and for prevention. Furthermore, regional health firms have continued and strengthened the agreements with private drug institutions that the county authorities had before the drug reform. The earmarked funding for voluntary drug work has been significantly strengthened in recent years, inter alia in order to meet the challenges arising from the implementation of drug reform. The challenges are linked to the need for organisations to deal with calls for tenders and negotiations with health businesses. Municipalities also use bidding rounds and contracts increasingly. At the same time, the provision of services is constantly being developed, both in municipalities and in specialist health services, which could also affect private enterprises. It is likely that both some private enterprises and non-governmental organisations will need to change if they are to continue to cooperate with municipalities and specialist health services on a good and comprehensive offer to users. But I see they're interested in it. I would like to mention important tasks such as local rehabilitation, street-based interventions, outreach activities — where young people are also sought at night — care tasks, housing, social activities and meeting places. Some users say that when they have been involved in a treatment scheme, they are very anxious to come back to the municipality, because the family may not be there, and the network is at least not there, most often, and then it's very important to have some meeting places, that after-sales protection is in place. There is also no doubt that voluntary organisations are a very necessary and useful complement to public services. It is against this background that the Government facilitates the continued participation of non-governmental organisations in the work on drugs with their knowledge and experience. The Social and Health Directorate has informed us that they have distributed well 92 million. SEK 58 different measures in the current year. Examples of interventions include different daily institutions, rehabilitation measures for follow-up before, during and after treatment, and self-help and interest groups. The Gospel Center, the Foundation KRAFT and P22 are the largest recipients of this money. In total, these three alone have received over 40 million. kr in direct support for the operation of the organisations and the actions they operate. A total of 58 voluntary private and non-profit organisations make significant efforts in this field, for which I think they deserve a great deal of credit. In order to strengthen the efforts of volunteers in the drugs field, the Government has proposed to provide a lot of money. Of course, I have noticed and am positive to the consensus that is in Stortinget in the matter that will be dealt with tomorrow, and that applies to money for the next year as well. The previous government has drawn up criteria for the distribution of grants, following a previous decision in the Stortinget. I believe that these criteria contribute to more predictable framework conditions for those receiving grants and also stimulate closer cooperation with the local authorities. It's also important. We want from the government, as we know in a short time, to present an escalating plan for the drug field. In this plan, we include: emphasis on quality and competence enhancement, social inclusion and improved accessibility of services. Other areas of action are to facilitate even better interaction between the different levels in this area as well. We want users to have a greater influence on the services they get, and children and relatives to be cared for in a much better way than what unfortunately is the case many times today. In this work, I want to cooperate with voluntary actors, with municipalities and with the specialist health service, so that we can achieve these objectives together. I am, like the interpellant, concerned that those who have been in institutions should be followed up in a whole chain of measures. Close follow-up is a prerequisite for success both in treatment and rehabilitation. In this work, there is no doubt that private and voluntary enterprises play an important role. It is therefore important to strengthen interaction between private enterprises, municipalities and specialist health services. Greater attention needs to be paid to the entire course of treatment and to ensuring a good follow-up after treatment in the specialist healthcare system and also after imprisonment. Efforts to increase the use of individual levels need to be improved. It's a good tool, but we know it doesn't always work. This also applies to the interaction between voluntary and private enterprises. We need to have a common goal of getting comprehensive help for each one. Such an offer may, as you know, consist of different local interventions and treatment, outpatient and/or institutional. In a short time, the evaluation of the drug reform, on which the interpellant was involved, is available. It will give us a better picture of where the shoe actually prints in the chain of action of this reform, and, I believe, provide us with a better basis for assessing the situation for both users, municipalities, specialist health services and private drug institutions. I will also ensure that the situation of the private institutions and the voluntary work on drugs is further elucidated. I would therefore ask the Social and Health Directorate in 2007 to evaluate the grant scheme under Chapter 761 of the State budget item 70. This is also something the Riksrevision has ordered us to do. The evaluation of this item shall include the voluntary organisations receiving grants, the needs of users, the interaction between the different levels — including in relation to NAV. The evaluation shall also assess the situation of institutions which do not have an agreement with regional health establishments. These two evaluations will provide a more knowledge-based basis for assessing whether the services of drug addicts are well organised. The evaluations shall also provide information on how private enterprises have experienced the drug reform and whether they have actually gained more predictable conditions. With the conditions that I have now tried to explain, the government has provided a basis for helping to ensure private and non-governmental organisations a strengthened place in the field of drugs, in cooperation with municipalities and specialist health services. The aim is to provide them with a good and comprehensive offer of how good social follow-up services have a natural place in the response chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1510	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The fact that the evaluation of the grant at entry 70 is done in a good and holistic manner, I think, is positive. I wish, if there is an evaluation of the drug reform, that this was done at the same time. That's what I have to say. I became a little uncertain that it would be done separately. Equally, I would like to ask that the institutions in question be included. Reference groups have been linked to the evaluation that has now been carried out, and it is important to look at both the content, the need for them, and not least the user choice, because there are many users who actually choose these institutions fully. With regard to the Council of State's response, it is also gratifying that she states that the private non-profit institutions are important. I agree with the Council of State that the bidding rounds have been and are a challenge for the organisations. We've also seen it in the rehabilitation area of institutions that haven't been used to this from before. However, these institutions are also in the process of transition. They want it, they want it, they don't have anything against it. What I see as a big dilemma today is that some of these institutions are being played out against each other at the different levels. An institution explained this: when we apply for funds from the municipality, the municipality says that we have to go to health companies and seek funding. When we apply through healthcare companies, health companies say that we are really a municipal service. Nevertheless, they are used by the Swedish National Works Agency for some patients who do not know where to place them. It's not the worst for the institutions, but it's the worst for the patients, who in many ways are rejected by institutions with free capacity. What I can imagine asking the Council of State is if, like me, the Council of State believes that we need a low-threshold offer of the kind that some -- not all of them -- these private ideal institutions offer, not least in the middle of some cities, also here in Oslo, so that patients will not be rejected in the future. They have to be able to knock on a door, it opens, they come in, and they don't call their caller or go to a social office, because there and then they're motivated. Does the Council of State believe that such an offer should also be maintained by private non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1521	For evaluations, the evaluation of drug reform, as I said, is right around the corner. We need to spend some time on the second one, the evaluation of entry 70, which this case is about. What I can assure you is that they are, of course, to be involved in the process, so that we hear everyone's view of how this is experienced in practice. Some of the examples shown by the representative, including the last one, show that there is a great need for interaction. It can't be that we push the users from one level to the other. Therefore, it is very important that we have low-threshold services, which are easily accessible, which are unbureaucratic, which are open 24 hours a day, and where there is no great demand for either one or the other. There is no doubt that there is a need for it, especially in our largest cities. I can once again just confirm that I believe that private and non-profit institutions have an important role to play in this area, and in our opinion it is also going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1528	There's been a lot of drug policy in the last few days, but I would say this is a very important matter. I want to thank the interpellant for bringing this up. Health enterprises are required to ensure the development of an individual level in cooperation with the municipality for patients in need of long-term and coordinated services, and it is a management responsibility to ensure that this is done. Many drug addicts are in need of both social and health care assistance, and there is therefore a common provision for these two services. Coordination is necessary in order to achieve a satisfactory result. There are clear indications that drug treatment and mental health protection activities should have a higher rate of growth than that of somatic treatment, and the increase should be added to increased appropriations for mental health and drug treatment. A drug addict is entitled to an individual level, but if this plan is to have something specific, it must be realistic. It must be followed up with the right to treatment and the right to a return offer that provides work in the long term and measures to obtain a permanent dwelling. If the public fails, it will destroy the individual’s ability to achieve the goal of a better life. It is not new that drug users have to wait a long time for treatment, but why is this still the case? Too many people get long waiting. Either they lose the motivation, or what's even worse is, there's a lot of people who die waiting for an offer to help them get a new and better life. As long as there is a need for treatment and care, there should be no available vacancies. There is a cause for concern when treatment services operated by NPISHs and private individuals are closed down or have a lot of available capacity, while many are waiting for an offer. There are fire brigades that run these places, fire brigades that have built up good deals over many years, that have helped many drug addicts to a better life, and that can show results. They have a complete offer. They can offer school, bottling, work training, they take care of the family situation, and, best of all, they make the drug addicts have a connection. Perhaps the most important thing about starting a new life is that you feel that you belong to a place and that you have support. Health enterprises, which are primarily responsible for providing help to drug addicts, have shown little interest in concluding agreements with the institutions run by private NPISHs. There must be variation in treatment provision, because what is appropriate for one person is not appropriate for another. We need offers that can be adjusted differently. Is it the case that these treatment and rehabilitation services do not fit in with healthcare businesses? This should then be reconsidered. After the Health and Care Committee visited Østerbo in Halden, which is run by the Gospel Centre, I became even more convinced that the efforts of volunteers in the care of Russo have meant a great deal, and will mean even more if they have the opportunity to offer their services. I hope that the Minister of Health and Health will review this now, when these evaluations are available, so that we can provide a treatment offer to those drug addicts who want it, and that all institutions that have good treatment arrangements can help to provide better services to patients in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1551	These two interlockings have thematically a certain internal context, which we can all see. I therefore allow myself first and foremost a slight remark in connection with the interpellation debate we have just concluded. A government council that one day stands on the pulpit of the Storting and strongly defends a strong expansion of the sales network of the Vinmonopolet, on the grounds that it will ensure everyone, irrespective of their residence, equal access to the goods that the Vinmonopolet negotiates, and that the next day stands on the same platform and criticises everything and everyone that contributes to increased access to alcohol, has, in my view, a significant credibility problem. So to this interpolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1560	That's who we're dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1563	Of course. According to the Ministry of Health’s own report on the drug situation in Norway in 2006, addicts have poor health status and a significantly higher risk of early death than the general population. Many heavily burdened addicts live under very poor conditions, including: because of lack of residence and poverty. In addition, it is clear that drug dependence places considerable strain on family and other relatives. These adverse effects are related both to alcohol abuse and to drug dependence. Health surveillance studies demonstrate significant deficiencies both in the capacity and quality of drug addicts’ services. For example, it has been found that drug addicts are regularly discriminated against in the allocation of municipal relief services. In other words, it is clear that addicts are among the worst in today’s Norwegian society. The co-operation administration has been responsible for cleaning up a bureaucratic auxiliaries for addicts. The transfer of responsibility for specialised treatment for drug addicts from county municipalities to health businesses from the new year 2004 was an ideological time gap within the drug field. With this reform, drug addicts were granted patients’ rights in line with those of other patients. Now we have to provide resources for the field, so that patients' rights get a real content. The cooperation department escalated the appropriations for drug treatment by nearly 600 million. kr in the previous grossing-up period. The capacity of drug-based rehabilitation was doubled, the number of municipal low-threshold measures increased from eight to 38, and a follow-up scheme was established in the municipalities. Gabrielsen claims that for the first time in 2005, drug addicts were actually prioritised in the specialist healthcare service through clear governance signals to health businesses. These are, and it is very positive, repeated by the state council Brustad for the current year. Despite a strong commitment to anti-drug activities in the previous period, the Right fully recognises that there are still major challenges in the supply of drug addicts. We therefore had great expectations of the announced escalating plan for the drugs field from the Government. It's temporarily absent. The government's proposal for a government budget, according to the Board of Directors of Rusfeld, represents the weakest eight-year commitment to the drug field. With the proposal to increase capacity in LAR by 100 places next year, it will take 50 to 70 years to complete the queue for such treatment. Then you are in the situation the imperial Austrian bureaucracy was said to be in its time, that all problems will solve themselves if you wait long enough. SV’s health policy spokeswoman, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, organised a user hearing on drug policy in the United Kingdom in May this year. After the hearing, she spoke to the newspaper: ‘I am very pleased with all the good recordings we have received today, but it remains to be seen what comes out of them in practice. If nothing happens after such a meeting, we only hurt worse." It is a pity to record that nothing has actually happened in practice after the hearing. Neither SV nor the other government parties support the Right's proposal to double the earmarked appropriations for the drug field compared to the Government's budget proposal. Nor do they support the proposal to escalate the rehabilitation grant by 500 million. kr, such as to be used for better anti-abuse treatment. The red-green parties talked about warm communion and warm hands in the election campaign. After the election, it will appear as soon as possible to the users in this area as a cold shoulder, not as warm hands. On the Ministry of Health and Welfare's website, we read that Secretary of State Harsvik is to lead an expert group on drug treatment in the Council of Europe. It's fine. In the meantime, however, drug addicts in Norway die in the absence of satisfactory offers. There is reason to ask the Council of State if she has understood the seriousness of her own report. How long should addicts and their relatives wait before the Government finds room to prioritize them?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1585	I must first say that I am wondering about the tone that the representative is taking, all the time I have hardly seen the representative at any meetings that have had to do with drug policy. So this engagement I think is actually new. And it's not the Minister of Health who has a credibility problem in this case, but it's the Right who has it, when they say on the one hand they're concerned with the consequences of alcohol damage, while on the other hand they're talking about beer sales around the clock, liberal tipping regulations, among other things. Here in Oslo town, and wine in the shops. So here you might want to go first. SV very much agrees with the Christian People's Party that it is important to support the voluntary drug institutions and the voluntary work in general, for that matter. We have had a close cooperation from SV for many years with, among other things. Tyrili, the Church's City Mission, the Church's Social Service, various collectives and others who work hard and well for people with drug addiction to get a better life, preferably a life where they don't have to depend on drugs. Voluntary activities and non-profit activities constitute a very important contribution to Norwegian health, social and drug policies that we are to take care of. This can also be seen from the budgetary position of the Health and Welfare Committee. There is a broad consensus on an active volunteering line in Norwegian policy, and that is good. We in the government parties are committed to ensuring the quality of the drug institutions we have. We are also concerned that drug addicts should have an freedom of choice and a diversity of offers. Many have suffered unnecessary and painful defeats because they were sent somewhere they did not fit in. Like everyone else, people with drug addiction or drug problems are different people. They are entitled to be treated as individuals, and it is important to provide good information and good investigation prior to the provision of services. I also think it is important to stress that non-medical services still have a central function, and that many addicts would have chosen this if they had known more about the disadvantages and shortcomings of LAR treatment, or if they had had more options. I also think that many people may have unrealistic hopes of what a drug offer can give them. I'm meeting a lot of LAR patients who are depressed, lonely and feel failed, because the R in the LAR -- the rehabilitation -- is failing in many places. Getting good rehabilitation services locally and ensuring good integration after institutional treatment must be high on the drug policy agenda. Loneliness and boredom are known and important factors in the success of former drug addicts. Having someone and something to stand up to in the morning, getting help with social distress and lack of narcissism, helping in debt management, an old age and a fixed place to live, is terribly important. I also think it is important to facilitate the possibility of achieving more as time has passed and one has proven that one has managed to be free of sleep, to move on in life and not stay on site resting. I want to draw up the municipality of Trondheim and the regional drug company in Central Norway. There are some of them who have done important things. The Russo has far more flexible contracts with its institutions than many other RHFs have. They make demands for follow-up afterwards, and they have entered into a spice layer with the municipality of Trondheim, and eventually several other municipalities, to give so-called "completely treated patients" a place to go when it's on, when they need homework, a meal or just social gathering, a place where it's safe to be. This place is called Brygga. Trondheime does not operate with a one-sided work line either, but with a work and mastering line, which I think works well. My point is that we have to focus on the quality, it has to be the most important thing whether it's voluntary or public. I think the drug reform led to a necessary search light on quality, not least in private offers, and the Church's Bymition is of those who have expressed this. What has not been as good is market orientation, which many voluntary NPISHs have reacted to. They have felt that they have had to act as market players, and others have said straight away that they fear for volunteering. It does not belong to a non-profit organisation with a humanistic value base to talk about winning market shares or making money. In order to ensure good quality, user involvement, inclusion of related and active use of individual levels is also necessary. We look forward to the government's escalating plan in the field of drugs, where volunteering will also have its place. Voluntary work directed by organisations such as RIO, Rio Ung, LAR-Nett, Landsförbundet Against Substance Abuse, Red Cross, the Network It Benefits and many, many others are quite invaluable. It is also important to secure operational resources for organisations so that not everything goes to demarcated projects. A good drug policy depends on voluntary engagement, not least from those who have competence from a life of drug addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1605	In the previous interpellation debate we talked about prevention, and now we are talking about repair. I understand very well that the representative Davøy addresses the situation of voluntary institutions in drug treatment after the drug reform, after the responsibility was transferred to the specialist health service, with the turbulence around it. It is clear that there are some institutions in a difficult situation. That is why I think it is important that we discuss it in Stortinget. Voluntary, non-profit and non-profit institutions took early responsibility for people who fell outside. Many of the organisations that are here today are organisations that have a long tradition of dealing with drug addicts, for people who struggle with their lives. I believe that this government has seen it and has taken responsibility for it, as the budget position to be debated tomorrow also shows, where we strengthen the post of non-governmental organisations in the care of the drug population receives its subsidies. It's important, and it's because the government sees that these institutions actually have an important place in the overall care of the drug. I believe that it is also important that these institutions be placed under control, that they be evaluated, and that quality requirements be imposed on them. But that doesn't mean that everyone should be the same, I want to underline that. I think some of the strengths of voluntary organisations' institutions are just that they operate differently and when a little different drug addicts. I think we need a wide range of services in the care of drug users. In this way, I believe that these institutions are involved in representing the diversity we actually need. But it is important that a quality requirement is set for them, that they operate the way others do. We hear that there are people who think this is second-rate. I think it is important that they be evaluated, that they receive a quality stamp, and then they will be taken seriously in the future – both in terms of getting agreements with regional health companies and with municipalities. I think many people see that the voluntary organizations that run that kind of action actually have some extra resources that a common public service doesn't see, that is, the great human commitment of those who run these institutions. It's important to bring it with you. Finally, the word «belief» is used here today, and lack of credibility. I am so glad that the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen brought this up with the fact that the Right has a credibility problem in the alcohol policy, so I don't have to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1622	The overall objective of the major drug reform was to provide drug users with complex problems with a more comprehensive service and to improve treatment outcomes. Many people are unable to deal with everyday life without rushing, and the left's starting point in drug policy is that we should fight drug abuse and not those drug addicts. This is why it is primarily about social measures. We need a broader and better treatment provision for drug users. Basically, in any situation where people are to seek help and get help, the help seeker is to retain his dignity. At the same time, it is not worth meeting the expectations that you can succeed. The one who doesn't meet any expectations is actually written off and invisible by the big community. The left is concerned that all good forces must be used in relation to drug users. The provision of help and treatment to drug users in Norway covers a wide range of interventions and approaches. Historically, religious drug policy organisations, such as the The Blue Cross, the Camaret Club, the Salvation Army, the White Band and former Induction, now the Church’s Bymission, played an important role in the establishment and operation of various types of daily institutions and relief measures for drug users. Gradually, treatment measures have been developed under public authority. In addition, in the last few decades several treatment measures have emerged that are operated by professionally inspired foundations and limited liability companies. In some cases, private individuals may also be involved. While it is a public responsibility to provide the necessary treatment capacity, there is a wide variety of actors in the field. The left is open to the need for individual offers from private institutions. The important thing is that it is good oversight and that quality is good. It brings me to another issue — what the target criteria are for good care. For the Left, it's important to stress that you can't just measure the quality of people becoming drug free. A better state of health and the quality of life at the level of rehabilitation are important in the care of drug users. It is important that the institutions are open and not moralizing. Drug users are very different and require individual treatment solutions. The left considers it a good idea to try to get hold of and use the best from different cultures and environments that work to get people out of addiction. All LAR patients must be followed up with organised social and rehabilitation services. Methadone and Subutex do not fill out lost education, loss of self-respect and absence of social networks. Few patients will undergo treatment without interruption, relapse and cracking. It is important to consider such deviations from the treatment as evidence of complexity and to be prepared that the deviations will and may occur as a rule. The treatment network therefore needs to be flexible and take into account anomalies and reintroduce drug users after the deviation. Often the treatment system has to look for patients in order to succeed. The key is that the treatment system needs to be adapted to the patient, the drug addict, and the particular nature of their suffering, and not the opposite. Flexibility is an important keyword. The important thing is also to show that the door is open – even if the patient initially does not want to go in. Finally, I would like to refer to an interesting article that appeared in Haugesund's newspaper on Saturday 2 December, which indicated that there are several municipalities that have now started to make some estimates of how many drug users they have in their area. I think that's also essential to move on. Some of us from the districts know that many of the heavier drug addicts are moving into urban areas. If we can't see this in a certain context and see how the shoe prints, I think it's important to get some measure out to the municipalities and the different health companies, so that we can take action as quickly as possible at the lowest possible level, i.e. at the place of residence, which is the starting point for the drug addict.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1637	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for bringing up an important matter. We are talking about an area that embraces far and wide. I don't want to get into all the areas of my post, but I want to relate to those groups that may be the worst. It is clear that being drug addicts in today's society is not easy. We also see that for many, neither individual level nor individual solutions are developed to a large extent. In many ways it seems that part of the trade unions unfortunately counteracts this. And this is one thing that really has to get in place, because it turns out in practical work that individual planes are a great success. Using former drug addicts in this work that may not have the right educational background can be one reason. But I actually believe that here the goal of any price must be the sacred means of which group you want to sit down to cooperate with. Another side of this case that I want to address is that we're going to have a diversity. It's a necessity. But when we have a diversity related to drug addicts, I find it a bit tragic that in some LAR offers, you get thrown into the street if you're so unhappy to crack. I think it's very important to understand that in relation to such a kind of treatment, we all actually have to open our minds a little bit and take on board that it's not necessarily the way to get out of this hell on the first attempt. Maybe someone never comes out of it. But when it comes to those people that society is able to help get out of it, maybe we have to use ten attempts, maybe we have to use 20, maybe we have to use 30, because we don't have the opportunity to push these people away from us. Then we should open our minds and take over and understand what problems we're actually up to with both legs. It must also be a little sad for today’s government, which in so many areas is countering the private sector in health, to have to take on board the fact that in this area it is private and non-profit organisations that have been present from about the morning in Norway. To what has become the popular theme here in the debate about who is most credible, I have to say that if you really take this problem seriously, and you are also present at a meeting and don't do anything about it, there is actually more credibility in not having been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1654	After all, it was a pleasure that we could end up with an alcohol policy debate on which there is full agreement throughout the Storting, namely that the private non-profit organisations – to say the word – have come to stay, and that they should continue and find their good role. I would like to comment on some of the comments. The representative Ms. Marte Thorkildsen said that what she was concerned about was to ensure the quality, freedom of choice and diversity, and I very much agree with that. We all know that no patients want to apply to an institution that they don't even feel helps them. She also pointed this out with user involvement. The other thing she also pointed out, which I believe is essential, and which most of us have been concerned about, is that LAR treatment – she said it probably not that directly – should come after. She was very concerned that measures were put in place in advance, as I perceived her, by LAR treatment. It is also an important point of reference from this pulpit. As far as Vigdis Giltun is concerned, I fully agree with the representative that as long as there are patients who have a need, we should not have vacancies in institutions. I think we in Stortinget can agree on that too. The representative Giltun also said that in the case of the private non-profit institutions, there are fires behind it. The shilling called it a great human commitment. And that's absolutely right. That's, as the representative Giltun said, why addicts actually get a relation to just these institutions. They offer long-term measures. Many are like the measures we saw at the Østerbo Gospel Centre, when the committee was visiting there. They also provide education, and they provide work. In a way, they don't let the patients go on and on. I have to say, I was impressed by the whole offer given at the Østerbo Gospel Centre, which we have also seen in many of the other voluntary non-profit organizations. If you don’t get an offer, it has alternative costs – it can be human, relative to the family, children, etc. It will provide a deeper drug dependence, and in the next round it will require more treatment. This is why it is so important that we do not have empty spaces and that patients are given the opportunity to take action. Finally, I would like to say that one of the most important things about the drug reform that we have implemented, and that we are in the process of implementing, is the state of rights – the fact that patients, addicts, have acquired a right to do so. I would like to ask the Council of State at the end of the day: When will the new guidelines come – can she answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1669	As far as the last representative was concerned, this with the guidelines, I dare not respond to the tight arm just when we manage to have them finished. But to the representative Davøy and others who may be interested: I can come back to that. I also think there has been an interesting debate on an important topic. I want to say that it is not that this government is countering private and non-profit institutions. Actually, it's like this per. Today, of 80 measures taken by regional health establishments, more than half are private and non-profit-making in this area. Examples of this are the Blue Cross and the Church's Bymition, which do an excellent job. There are a lot of other people who also do, and we also need them in the future. I do not know how long we are going to hold this debate on credibility or a lack of credibility as the representative of the wage went up from this pulpit today. I've learned through an ever quite long life in politics that sweeping at one's own door before one starts to criticize others, is not so stupid. It's actually so that the escalator rush is right around the corner. We granted right away, over 90 million. kr more to this field. In next year's government budget, we have proposed a significant strengthening of the local economy, which means a lot to this work as well. We get more money for hospitals, which also means a lot. So on top of that, we have special grants. I am also pleased that there has been a consensus in the Stortinget between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on further strengthening and investing in private and non-profit institutions. When it comes to rehabilitation, we had a long debate yesterday. We're going to get back to that. I can also assure you that when, on behalf of the Government in January next year, I send out new governance signals to regional health companies, there will be a demand that the care and the psychiatric community grow more strongly than the somatic environment, as has been the case since 2005. We see that despite the fact that there are still significant challenges, it has at least proved to be beneficial. That's why it's important to keep using that tool. Otherwise, I fully agree with all those who say that we must be concerned about quality, and that everyone has the right to be treated as individuals. That's why it's also important that we have a diversity of what we offer. The example that the representative Skkelstad had from Haugesund, I think is exciting. I think it is important that several municipalities do as Haugesund does – that one both chart the extent of this problem and what one intends to do with it. Several municipalities should simply make comprehensive plans. We have had a major information campaign on the part of the Government, in the hope that more people will take this seriously – that it will not only be, as it is unfortunately someplace, to give even more donations with longer opening hours without also discussing what the consequences actually are – and that one discusses what measures one should take in terms of prevention, treatment and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1682	Then the interpellation debate in case No. Four over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1700	In Herbjørg Wassmo's book «The House with the Blind Glass Curtain» it says: "Children were always women's. When the women failed in some way, only the kids were fooled. No one knew what to do with them." On November 21st this year, Inga Marte Thorkildsen raised an interpellation debate on domestic violence. In that debate, the SV representative was very angry when someone was talking about women who were attacking. This has led me to think a lot about this afterwards. Why do you get so angry? If you look at the overview of sexual abuse, for example. The 1979 U.S. study of Finkelhorn shows that 19 p.m. by the women and 9 pst. of men had been sexually assaulted. In 1985 the same study showed that this had increased to 27 pst. by women and 16 pst. of the men. In Norway, we had a survey of Sétre, Holter, and Jebsen in 1986, which showed that it was in force on 19 p.m. by women and 14 pst. of men, while Folkehelsa’s 1994 figures showed that there were 13 p.m. by the women and 7 pst. of the men. The numbers are uncertain, but I'm getting these numbers out first and foremost to show that the extent is also quite large in terms of men. Why is the idea of the woman who crosses so hard for us? It's because it breaks both our gender role patterns, and it breaks with the mother image we have. A Swedish survey shows that between 20 and 30 pst. by sexual assaults are made by women. Sweeter, Holter and Jebsen said in 1986 that women were behind 20 p.m. of the attacks on boys and 6 pst. of the assaults on the girls. So we've known this for almost 20 years, but it's still very difficult for us. I just want to stress that I'm proud of the women's fight that brought out both the crisis centers and the incest centers, and I think everyone who's been there has done a great job. But now it's perhaps time to dry up and move on, it's done neither the women's fight nor the man's struggle has to go. The support centres for incest employ around 70 people in Norway, seven of whom are men. If you've been assaulted by a woman, there's probably a lot of people who want to meet a man when they've come so far that this is something they'll take care of. Women who have assaulted men are in a way three taboos at once: first it's the taboo about the assault, then it's the assault on the manhood, and then it's the assault from a woman. Why is this so difficult? Well, there's a lot of the same thing that many women who have been attacked meet, that you're afraid not to be believed, you're afraid that someone just needs to feel sorry for you, you're afraid to be stamped weak, you want to protect your family, you feel very guilty about what's happened, it's hard to put words on, and then it's amazing with us people that sail people who hurt us, we're happy about. For boys, this is especially about the threat of counter-reporting, and then you're afraid to lose friends, friends who don't know how to deal with it, or who may think it's disgusting. The stories I've heard have been shocking, touching and moving. I felt that I had a responsibility to do something. The offer we have today to this particular group in the public sector is very poor – it is one to two years waiting time. Our support centres are very good, but they are made primarily by and for women, sailing if some of them have recently seemed to be important to employ men as well. Then we have the Centers for Sexually Abused Men, who have stayed here in Oslo from 1990, and who get considerably less transfers than the other centers, sailing about Oslo now in budgetary conciliation with the Left goes in and pays a larger part. The voluntary work, voluntary involvement and voluntary organisations are thus absent in this area. My challenge to the Council of State is: do we take this seriously? Is the Council of State willing to make an action plan in this area, an action plan that gives us public knowledge of this? Maybe the boys who experience this are giving completely different signals to what the girls are doing, to teachers, caregivers and the public auxiliaries? Is it possible to use all the expertise now built up by the Oslo Support Centre and spread it to the other support centres, and to all those meeting these challenges? Will the Council of State also join me in opening the public debate and breaking the taboos in this area that this problem does not exist, and that this is something you do not talk about – and spreading the knowledge to everyone who has experienced this, that it is actually possible to get help, sail if it is almost not today? One wrote to me that men are most often abandoned to themselves after they have experienced this, without being believed by either the nearest, the health care or the police. In public space, it's not about mothers as sexual offenders, no matter how much statistics show us that it's true. I would like to say from the pulpit: yes, mothers can be superiors, and it is never the children's fault. I'm happy for everything that's done, especially on the woman's side in this area, but maybe it's time we dare to light up another back room, which is just as dark and gloomy as the Torah's room in the 'House with the blind glass porch' – just that now there's the Tor lying there, and he's no one who's written about any bestselling novel. My challenge to the Council of State is: Can we make an action plan, can we build up the auxiliaries, can we raise our skills, and can we – not least – break the taboos in this area? Perhaps this could be the challenge where women's struggle and human struggle can be met to help young people who have suffered a terrible conflagration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1731	First, I want to thank the representative Skei Grande for focusing on a serious and important topic. Sexual assault is one of the most serious cases that a child may be exposed to, and the adverse effects are currently well documented. We know that both boys and girls are subjected to sexual assault, but sexual assault on boys gets less attention than sexual assault on girls. I fully agree with the inter-pellant that it is necessary to pay greater attention to the man who has been subjected to the assault, and we also need to assess whether the aid and support apparatus adequately captures and provides adequate help to men who have been sexually assaulted. As the interpellant very correctly pointed out, what if the attacker is actually a woman? With regard to the extent of sexual assault on boys, we don't have a good enough overview today. Although the interpellant referred to some statistics, among others: from Sweden, I think we have to admit that in this particular field there can be a lot of darkness, and it can be difficult to get the statistics up in a good enough way. The Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing shall carry out a screening of sexual abuse against children. The aim of the study is inter alia: providing answers to the question of the number of children exposed to violence and abuses of different kinds and providing an overview of the distribution of such abuses among different groups of children and young people. The survey shall be completed next year. The knowledge gained from this survey will hopefully provide us with a better basis for developing prevention measures and providing more targeted help and support to those who have been abused. The gender perspective is important in the work in this area. Men and women may experience and deal with sexual abuse differently and may need different types of support and help. An in-depth study carried out in 1997 by ten perpetrators showed that men felt that they did not have the power to live up to the man-sideal of society, and therefore did not know themselves as proper men. They felt unsuccessful because they had not been able to control themselves and protect themselves. They knew themselves dirty or ruined, and they couldn't feel intimacy with a partner in sexual situations. Men had problems establishing and maintaining close relationships with other people. Probably it is that men are less open than women that they have been sexually assaulted as children. I think this might have something to do with the human role and the violation of the man's masculinity. To be subject to assault or to be regarded as a victim contrary to the masculine role ideal. This can help the man not to admit that he has been subjected to an assault, and in this way he does not receive the necessary help either. The man must allow himself to be a victim. It is important to establish that healthcare is responsible for providing assistance and treatment to those who have been subjected to abuse, for example: in the context of mental and drug problems. The lack of transparency in sexual abuse may be related to the fact that the auxiliaries are less good at meeting men who have been sexually assaulted, and perhaps even less able to provide adequate help. This is something that we really have to work on. I would like to discuss with the Minister of Health how to enable healthcare to provide better treatment for men who have been sexually assaulted in childhood. An important supplement to the regular health service is the incest centres. These centres, working on the principle of self-help, have unique knowledge and competence and also offer a range of services that are difficult to cover by the public utility. Except for one of the Oslo centres reserved for women, all incest centers are open to both women and men. There is an overweight of female employees at the centres. Although more centres for incest and sexual assault have recently employed men, it is important to work for more men to be employed and that the centres' competence to provide assistance to men is strengthened. This may help several men to turn to a centre for help and assistance. In Oslo there is a separate center for men, the Center for Sexually Abused Men. So far this year, this centre has had over 100 new users. Among other things, more immigrants and homosexuals are asking for help. It tells us a little bit about the scale, there's a great need for help. It is important that incest centres have enough resources to do a good enough job. As of this year, the incest centres will be financed in the same way as the crisis centres. That is 20 pst. municipal grant triggers 80 pst. State grants. Experience has so far shown that the new financial instrument contributes to a better economy for the centres and can thus provide more and better assistance, including for men. In a decision of request, the Government has asked for an evaluation of the supply, organisation and cooperation of the incest centres with the public utility before the end of this accumulation period. Of course, we're going to follow this up. In such an evaluation, it will be important to include an assessment of the offer to men, so that we are given the basis to assess whether it is such. there is a need for more centres only open to men. In addition to the financing of the incest centres, the Ministry also contributes financially to the Incest Centres' stakeholder organisation. This organisation is important in developing and improving the provision of centres. It is clear from the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government will strengthen the offer of incestoves. As a follow-up to that, in August of this year, we opened a nationwide and 24-hour helpline for people who are exposed to incest or other sexual abuse. The telephone service is open to children, young people and adults of both sexes. This telephone service means strengthening the offer, including for men. During 2008, the telephone service will be evaluated. We will then receive information on which groups are using this help offer, and the basis for assessing any adjustments and improvements in the service. Work on establishing five regional resource centres to deal with violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention has been ongoing this year and will continue until next year. The aim is to contribute to better and more holistic services through increased competence and better cooperation. Resource centres shall assist the public and private auxiliary equipment with information, guidance and the building of competence. Incest and sexual abuse centres will also benefit from the services of regional resource centres. The adverse effects of sexual assault on children are equally serious whether they are committed against boys or girls, and whether the attacker is a woman or a man. We need to be aware that men in general are less open when it comes to assaults they have experienced in childhood than women, and that men and women who struggle with late-onset effects may have different needs for help. As responsible authorities, we need to assess how we can strengthen and improve the support and treatment provision, especially for men, who were also involved in the inter-pellant. When we get the NOVA survey, we will have a much better basis for developing measures. We will now engage in dialogue with the Human Rights Centre Reform and Alternatives to Violence to discuss the device at work. The health and living conditions of boys and men will also be fully highlighted in the forthcoming report on men and gender equality. We also want a closer dialogue with the Community against sexual abuse about their work with boys and men. It is important to build on the competences and resources of both healthcare and support and ancillary services developed in this area. Here we know that there are many players and good forces to play with. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think it is very commendable that the Left addresses this problem. As the interpellant also said, this is a taboo theme. It is still the case in our society that there are some policy areas that are not as simple to talk about in public space. I got a clear challenge from the interpellant, if I along with the Left would be involved in breaking this taboo, and I can assure that both myself and the Government will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1771	I'm very happy that the Council shares my commitment in this area. We recognize that this is an area we don't know much about, where there's great darkness. I am also very pleased that the Council of State did not go into any of the traps I felt we were going into when we discussed the interpellation on 21 November. I feel that admitting that this is an extra taboo that we have to break – a triple taboo for these victims – is not a threat to all the women's struggle on this side, but that one actually recognizes that women too can be superiors. I am very pleased that the Council of State also chooses to address this issue with healthcare, but I would like to challenge the Council of State whether the Minister of Justice should have also been included in this type of work. This is about the fact that we have very few judges when it comes to women who attack – if any. We have a verdict in Bergen, as I know. Otherwise, there's almost no judge. I believe – through the stories I have been given – that there are a lot of people who meet with disbelief and who have not been believed in the explanations they have given in their meeting with the judiciary. Sometimes the cruelty is worse than what our imagination can actually point to. That knowledge is important to pass on, also to that part of our auxiliaries. And so: I mean, what has regulated access for users in terms of the support centre in Oslo, has largely gone on how much capacity they have had to pick up the phone. It costs to take the first phone when one first decided to take it, and one might have to try 20-30 times because no one is there to pick up the phone. I think that's an unworthy relationship for us. I wonder if the Council of State can help to ensure that there will always be someone to pick up the phone, or that there will be someone who can tell about another place they can call when they have used energy to manage to pick up that phone. I understand that the Council of State has started a number of projects, and I want the Council of State to perhaps end up with an action plan in this area when the studies that are under way are available and we are beginning to get more facts on the table about how many of these are involved. There must be a dialogue with professionals who have a great deal of competence in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1784	I just want to say that I actually agreed with absolutely everything the interpellant said in his post. I would also like to invite you to cooperate in this field. We're going to have a separate experience conference on this field for next year, and I can invite the interpellant there to participate and contribute to his commitment. How we get out with different types of measures, we have the opportunity to come back more when we get the survey, and when we have had the conference. I am fully open about the way in which it is to be presented to the public. Whether it becomes through a separate action plan or otherwise, we'll get back to it. The most important thing is that the authorities start to take responsibility for this issue differently from what we have done so far. I want to say that I am not concerned that we should put the fight we have had for women's rights, and everything that has happened in the field of equality, up to what is the situation in this field. It's important to me in the gender equality work I'm doing. It's actually not about putting women and men up against each other, but about being able to include everyone in relation to the concept of equality, and that we also have our eyes open that we actually have some challenges with regard to the situation of men, which the interpellant has pointed out in a very good way today. The government will come back to this when we present the big message that we're working on. The message will deal with men and equality on a very broad scale. When it comes to cooperation with different departments, I take that signal. I also see that it may be natural to link the Ministry of Justice to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1795	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1798	Let me first thank the representative Skei Grande for the debate she is raising, and for the focus she has on an important and serious topic. When children are subjected to sexual assault, there is one of the worst things that a young person can experience, whether girls or boys are being assaulted. For example, in the interpellation: the focus that attention must be directed more towards boys and men who are subjected to sexual assault, and here we are quite a few. This is a very important taboo that we have to break down, and it's a responsibility that we all have together. In his speech, the Council of State said that NOVA should carry out a screening of sexual abuse against young people. It's very good and necessary, so that we can get better knowledge and understanding of what kind, and how many, young and young people there are who are being sexually assaulted. We will then be able to better assess what action is needed. I think it's easy to admit that the extent of sexual assault on boys is something we don't have good enough overview of today. I mean, there's every reason to assume that the darkness valleys here are very large. It is likely that men are less open than women to our sexual abuse as children. It may have to do with the role of man, it may have to do with the intrusion of man's masculinity, it may be hard to admit that one has been subjected to assault as a little good, and be open about it. Therefore, more knowledge and transparency are important, so that the auxiliaries can be improved and that the darkness valleys can be reduced. In addition, I believe it is important that when we assess how the auxiliaries are designed and arranged, we have with us how guys and men experience this auxiliaries. The auxiliaries should be for everyone, but the fact that men are perhaps more reserved in relation to being open about sexual abuse may make it harder for boys and men to be discovered and get the right help. In addition to health services, of course, incestsentra, to which the Council of State was involved, is invaluable. It is very important that these centres are economically able to help – we heard that from the interpellant itself – and that they have enough resources to do a good job. With their knowledge and competence, they provide a service that the public auxiliaries can find difficult to maintain in an equally good way. I think it's important to be aware of and work for more men to be at this center, more men to be added, and more skills for men. It could lower the threshold for boys and men who are sexually abused, when it comes to turning to the incest center and getting the help the incest center can give. In Oslo, there is a private center for sexually abused men, and perhaps several other incest centers can retrieve knowledge and expertise from it. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government party says that we should strengthen the supply of ince substances. It's a recognition that it's not good enough today, whether it's about offer and help for women or men, boys or girls. In its speech, the Council of State highlighted many and important measures in this context. I agree with the Council of State that this must have a special human perspective in it, so that boys and men who have been sexually assaulted will experience better help and support. The Government and the Council of State shall, as the Council of State said, present a separate report on men and gender equality. What we are now discussing is also important in connection with that message. Kids who get sexually assaulted, whether they're boys or girls, experience something of the most traumatic human beings can be exposed to, and the damage is great. So let me end by stressing how important it is that we all constantly consider what kind of tool we have, how we can constantly improve the support and assistance we have, and that we all need to be even more aware that this is a support offering that should also be adapted to boys and men who are sexually assaulted. In that way, we can get a more open debate about the taboo that I totally agree with the interpellant that exists for some who in a situation of life have experienced something that everyone should be safe to experience. Then at least it's our job to help as best we can, so that guys and men get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1819	Like the previous speakers, the Progress Party will also praise the Left for taking up this interpellation. When it comes to assaults, rapes, incest, etc., we tend to think that this is something that affects women and girls. But it's the way guys and men are exposed. There's a lot of evidence that it's harder for men to talk about such things and seek help for it, especially in adulthood. As the Council of State correctly pointed out, it has something to do with the human role. It's not manly. It'll be stigmatizing in society, and you're not really a "man" if you stand up to such a problem. A small discretion: When the Stortinget recently dealt with an interpellation on violence in close relations, the Progress Party pointed out that violence in close relations is not only about violence against women, but also against men, and that there are also women who are violent, although of course this is a small proportion. We then pointed out that this must not be forgotten. In the interpellation debate, we had a lot to say about this, especially from SV's Karin Andersen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen. That men can also be victims, certainly did not fit into SV's worldview. But it's actually so that men are also victims. So today it's another party that puts on the agenda that boys and men can be victims and may need help. That's good! As the Council of State pointed out, there has been a significant strengthening of the incest centres around Norway, and these should be able to do work in connection with also being a tool for men. There is a need to build up skills, and perhaps also to hire more men, and it's a pleasure to be doing that work. I believe that for many men it will be easiest to talk to male therapists and resource persons in such a situation. Then there's also another advantage with the incest centers, and it's that they have a decentralised structure and exist in many places in the country. That's good, of course. However, work must also be done in relation to knowledge-building and treatment options. We have to make sure that doctors and psychologists become familiar with this, and also in the school health service, we have to have the necessary knowledge in this area. I think it's important to build up a competence in this area, too, in those places where you have receptions for the rape of doctors and hospitals. I hear that all parties say that assault is bad, and that's particularly bad for children. Of course, we fully agree on that in this Chamber. But I am concerned about what signals we send out through, among other things. the criminal policy pursued in that country. We're in a situation where the police have a problem with resources, the courts have a problem with resources, they're long queues for treatment, and we have a huge majority who feed these businesses on money. In particular, we send out signals through which level of punishment we have for assault, for incest and for rape. We have low penalties, and by that I mean that we say that this is not so dangerous. In fact, we have social sanctions in some of the areas. The Progress Party clearly rejects criminal rebates in this area and social penalties for abuses. We believe that this type of abuse should be penalised far, far more stringently than it is today. Then we would have sent clear political signals from this room. Finally, I notice that a survey of the area will be carried out. That's good, but that can't prevent us from also doing a job, and starting with it already now, because this work is so important. We believe that through the studies that the interpellant pointed out, this is a problem. Then we have to take it seriously and get started, even if we haven't checked it in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1842	The President gives the floor to the Olemic Thommess, who will be the last speaker at this morning's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1845	Why do women get so angry, asked the interpellant. I think that's a good question. I think maybe we should also ask: why do men get so quiet and so absent in the situations we're talking about? I think we're facing a problem that's awfully deep, deep in the society we live in, and deep in the individual of us. I think, unfortunately, it is that the ‘sisterships’ are better enough to approach talking about problems and showing care in problem situations than what the ‘brotherhoods’ are. I think we as men, all of us, should take some thought. I think that where the «sistership» is on the spot right away you see a problem, where the «brotherhood» will for a while refuse before you take the problem over and actually approach it mentally. It also does something to them. This makes it possible to assume that you actually have a problem, that you've been the victim of an assault, of course, that there's a lot deeper inside, or at least it's very far inside of them. Another thing that also strikes me in this context is that for this problem area, I don't see a face. In a lot of issues, in relation to addiction, in relation to coercion – there are so many areas we are discussing – it is like a face, one that stands out, one that is a victim, who himself tells his story and puts the name of what she or he has experienced. I am not able to see any face in relation to this problem at least as fast as I can. I think that describes the seriousness, and it describes the wound in it in a pretty illustrative way. I am very pleased with the mention of this particular area by the Council of State. The councils pointed out that we are here on the man-sideal of society in general, and also in a way how we, as individuals, experience the intrusion of masculinity. It is clear that a State Council, with the signalling capabilities of a State Council, is also an important attitude provider in this area. We have quite a good estimate of auxiliaries in terms of the theme as such, but as many people have been involved, it is a pretty big women's focus on it, because it has emerged from the dynamics of the women's movement. Nothing wrong with that. There I fully agree with the approach of the Council of State. But then it is clear that the state councils and other leading figures that attitude providers into those systems are becoming absolutely crucial. I would also like to point out that the district issue here is quite important. Growing up in a small place, living in a small place, in contexts like this, is at least no less demanding than growing up in a big place. I also want to point out – now we come to something how many people have said a lot – that I once had an enquiry from the Gaysir website, which is a website for gay people, which we thought should have a web-weed campaign, and should also have a protected website for young people. That was a pretty good idea, I think, as it's worth taking with me. Another area that we're actually going to be discussing in Odelstinget later today is about coercion. It's also an area where I think we're discussing very much from a woman's point of view. That's the good reason, because I think the issue of young woman/little older man is a very relevant issue. But there are also a lot of forced marriages where parents are agreed on behalf of children aged 12-14, and I'm not so sure if the boys think it's so much more exciting than the girls in those contexts. There we also have an example of how non-governmental organisations can apply. I want to point to the organisation SEIF, which has sheltered apartments, and has good networks for how we can approach this. At all, bringing these victims into good networking is a central part of this, and not least a demanding part. In conclusion, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue, and point out that we have a long way to go, both as individuals and as politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05.ana.ud1983e1866	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
