ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e31	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Laila Davøy, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e38	On behalf of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Line Henriette Holten Hämdal, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal on the legal right to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e43	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e67	On Monday the Storting received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following will meet for oral Question Time: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Council of State Life Signe Navarsetestaatsråde Øystein Djupedal The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e86	I will allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. During the month that has almost gone since the government said no to participation with additional forces in South Afghanistan, we have witnessed a significant split and discussion among the red-green representatives. Among other things, we have registered that Marit Nybakk has been in favour of a stronger engagement in South Afghanistan at the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, according to the morning news. We have experienced SV representatives who have honoured one of the top foreign politicians of the Workers' Party, grossing-up President Thorbjørn Jagland, for his views on this matter. It is also the case that the debate on Afghanistan rages further after the government gave in to SV on this issue. It now also splits into several other areas of the Soria Moria Declaration, namely NATO membership and the EEA Agreement as a basis for foreign policy. We see that although the Government has declared an active EU policy, Odd Roger Enoxen does not choose to take part in EU talks related to important issues in the energy field. It builds up to a new war and division between the government parties on the use of veto and the content of the so-called Services Directive, a directive designed to speed up Europe and create more jobs, and which largely meets with a positive attitude from trade unions across the EU. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: When NATO opponents decide our form of participation in NATO, is it the EEA opposition in the Government to decide our participation in the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e97	I must allow myself to distance myself from the reality of Solberg's representative. This Government is for NATO. This Government is for the EEA. There are, then, no opponents who dictate policy in these areas. I also fundamentally disagree with the fact that there is considerable division between the government parties on these issues. That's discussion, yes, and I would like to welcome that. But it's not right to make it that way. The examples that the representative draws out, I don't want to go into the details, but let me just take a couple: It was produced here that the representative Nybakk should have gone in to send Norwegian soldiers to South Afghanistan. I believe that the representative, Mr Solberg, refers to the Parliamentary Assembly, which now had a meeting and where the representative, Mr Nybakk, was present. A resolution from that meeting shows that it is important that NATO's strength objectives are achieved in the south. It is not a direct expression that Norway should send soldiers to the south. It can be interpreted as such, but I do not believe that it is a correct representation of such a general statement. The debate rages further, says the representative of Solberg. Yeah, I think that's good. I think we have now had a debate on what a broader picture of Afghanistan represents, the challenges that need to be solved in order for Afghanistan to get on a better course, which has a military dimension, but which has not least a civil dimension. So the retort of war has gone to Solberg's head so much that she's lifting this into Norwegian politics and saying that there's war on the EEA directives. Well, I can reassure her that it's going quite calmly in that area. That there has been a discussion about the Services Directive for many, many years is not new. That's good. It has now come to an end by the likely adoption by the Council of the directive in a short time. Then we're going to have a thorough assessment of that directive, and we're going to make an opinion about it. The fact that there are discussions on such a central theme in the world of work, on the rights of workers, is natural and desirable. The government's position is that we cannot accept a directive that leads to social dumping, and on that basis we must consider the directive very carefully. That's what we get from mid-December.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e108	I believe that there is a rather high volume in a political debate when representatives from one of the government parties call a representative from another government party – who is also the prime minister – for a war elevator, because he calls for a position that I have registered that there are quite a number of others in one of the government parties who believe. My starting point for asking questions about the EEA foundation for this government is actually the Foreign Minister himself who created it through an interview in the Class struggle today. Here he describes the motives for the opponents of the Services Directive. Those who desperately demand veto against the Services Directive want to torpedo the EEA Agreement. But the party that has eagerly demanded that veto now is the central government party. They are the ones who have been most in front of the discussion about whether or not to veto the Services Directive. So it's a characteristic of one government party that has entered into the Soria Moria agreement. How does Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr støre explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e117	I'll try to explain it. I am fully in favour of the good wording that the class struggle repeats today. What I said there was that at No to the EU national meeting last Friday, on which I had the pleasure of being present, I noticed that several of the speakers who agreed to veto, at the same time said that a veto could help dissolve the EEA Agreement. I said that when you heard part of the resistance to that directive, there were views that were worth taking with you and thinking about. I have not heard the kind of argument put forward by some of the critical voices of the directive in the governmental parties mentioned by the representative of Solberg. The Services Directive is a big and important thing we have in front of us now. I also notice that Euro-LO, where our LO and YS are participants, has expressed a positive opinion on the directive. But I think it is important that the directive be treated on the basis of what it actually is, and that it does not become part of a major game of an EEA agreement. I believe that the Government is very clearly behind this, because the EEA Agreement is a foundation for our European policy. It is set out in the Government Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e124	Here the President will accept four follow-up questions – first Morten Höglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e127	The impression created, in particular towards Europe and the EEA, is that parts of the Government are not further excited about the cooperation we have. That these forces are going to win out is a fear many of us have. The Minister of Oil and Energy is now absent from important meetings in the field of energy, which are so crucial for Norway. We are in a situation where two of the parties in the government would prefer that we had buried the whole EEA Agreement. What will the Foreign Minister do for us to raise the tab high to preserve the EEA agreement that many in Europe have forgotten and that many do not know? There is uncertainty about the whole existence of the agreement, also related to the ongoing negotiations for enlargement with Bulgaria and Romania. What action does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think we need to take to get back on the offensive with regard to these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e136	The government is willing to intervene in this matter. We have submitted a major communication on cooperation with the EEA, which is the first comprehensive presentation of how we will make more active use of this agreement. We look forward to meeting the Storting in a debate on it over New Year's. With regard to the Minister of Oil and Energy, I see that it focuses on his meetings in Brussels. He has nothing to be ashamed of there. What this was about was a conference in Brussels where the Minister of Oil and Energy was to sit on a panel of 15 other participants. He wouldn't give priority to that. On the other hand, he is in Brussels tomorrow to meet the European Energy Commissioner, whom he has met frequently since he became the Council of State. I have had several meetings in Brussels about energy since I became Minister of Foreign Affairs. And I believe that Norway's profile as an energy nation in Brussels is much clearer now than it was before. That's because of the government's total effort. There is no need to ask questions about the role of the EEA Agreement as a foundation for our European policy. That's good it's debate about it, but trying to doubt it by imposing the government's motives it doesn't have, I'm going to get away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e146	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e149	I think the Foreign Minister could do well to admit that there are quite great tensions in the foreign policy context of the sitting government, when the whole foreign policy opposition has actually moved into the government offices, while the alliance partners of the Workers' Party, the foreign minister's party, are sitting here in the opposition in the Stortinget. I was like the Minister for Foreign Affairs at No to the European Union's national meeting, where I was also very well received. I listened to the discussion on, among other things, the Services Directive. What I'm concerned about is that we get a wide-ranging treatment of the Services Directive here in Stortinget. It requires the Government to carry out a proper impact assessment of the Directive in relation to issues of social dumping and Norwegian health, environmental and safety standards. It also demands that the Storting get a broad and open statement on this matter. Will the Government meet that demand from the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e158	Let me first say that I am pleased with the Alliance of Governments for Foreign Policy in the Stortinget. It is important to have broad support on the main lines of foreign policy. There's something the government's emphasis on. As far as the Services Directive is concerned, it is the Government's wish to get a good light on that matter. We have had this matter on a regular basis in the EEA Committee. It will be a natural place to continue that discussion, but we are completely open in conversations with the Stortingen to find the right form to get the various questions that the Services Directive raises, so that we have a basis for making a wise decision here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e165	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e168	In my opinion, it is something new in Norwegian policy that we have such an open debate, especially within the Government on foreign policy – I had almost said from the ‘plenary protests’ a good year ago that an SV politician a few days ago called the prime minister of a war elevator. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on a general basis that discussion, debate and political negotiations are the essence of politics and democracy. We have to look at this in a positive way. But we also have a tradition that, in foreign policy, there is a greater degree of consensus and consensus. That's why we have our own procedures in Stortinget, with an extended Foreign Affairs Committee, etc., in order to reduce the spread of disunity on the outside. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs want a change of pace in this, that there should be no difference between foreign policy and other policies in the Norwegian political debate? Or could he imagine that we're approaching a little bit more what I'd call a normal situation, that we're looking for consensus through sensible and good foreign policy conversations so that we don't mark these very disagreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e177	Let me first say that I notice with interest that the representative Sponheim does not want to profile disagreements that could be detrimental to the interests of the nation, and that is the line he wants to focus on in these important questions. I think that's a wise approach, also in the difficult issues that we've been discussing lately. I believe, on a principle basis, that there is nothing in the way of the debate on foreign policy approaching the debate on other policy fields. I notice when I travel around the country and meet voters, assemblies and especially young people, that they have a commitment to discuss foreign policy. To meet it by saying that we're not talking so much about this, because we have a façade of consensus, I don't think that's wise. At the same time, I believe that, as the representative Sponheim says, there is a tradition that we are applying for a consensus, a common perception. That is my approach and my position. I believe that we have succeeded in doing so until now. So I'm not very concerned about the debate we've had. Of course, I am not in favour of the language and denominations that individual representatives had to choose to use, but in general we tolerate more debate on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e186	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e189	I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs characterised his formulations in the class struggle today as exceptionally successful. The heading states that the motive behind the veto is that they will undermine the EEA Agreement. These veto fans have one thing in common, that they all belong to two of the three government parties. It's not surprising in itself. When you know that the same two batches have included in their programmes that they want to terminate the EEA Agreement, there is no surprise. In this way, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is meeting very well. At the same time, however, the Minister for Foreign Affairs adds that he has not come to any position on the use of so-called veto in relation to the Services Directive. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right is that if Norway were to say no to this, which is such a fundamental part of the cooperation, it would mean cancelling the EEA Agreement. Is that a correct view?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e196	I do not have the right to cancel the EEA Agreement. I have not said that these were unusually successful comments, but I believe that I am correctly reproduced. And neither am I writing the headlines in the class struggle. I repeat what I said. It was that many who voiced opposition and want to veto at No to the EU national meeting, at the same time said that an additional dimension of it would be that one could threaten the EEA Agreement, and they wanted it. I respect that view, which I also say in the interview. I think I have my private opinion on that Services Directive, but I think it is right that the Government is standing by it. We've recorded input to the process on every occasion we've had. We have stepped up the diplomatic initiative. We have also supported organisations and have had close contact with LO, who have recorded through their channels. Now, I think it is right that that directive be adopted, and then we have to take a proper view of it and with the seriousness of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e203	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e206	I would like to ask the Minister of Transport a question. After all, the centre party is the party which, according to its own statement, has to take care of the districts as much as possible. Then I would like to quote from the program to the Center Party: ‘The Central Party considers that the financing of new road projects should be made via public budgets and is sceptical of a trend towards an increasing number of toll projects. Today, an excessive share of transport investment is based on user financing.’» This is what the Center Party program says. In the next round, I will be allowed to congratulate the Central Party Council, which has then become the Norwegian champion of using tolls. For 2007, the Central Party Council will charge up to SEK 5.5 billion in tolls. I would also like to say that the Central Party Council will in some way become a little bit historical, for 2007 will be the year when the state's share in building tribal roads in Norway is less than the Central Party now imposes on users in the whole country. My question is in line with what has come into the tribal road investigation. It has been suggested by the professional authorities that you might have to have 80 billion new DKK in tolls to get at all an acceptable standard on our roads by 2040, and then my simple question is to the Council of State: Will the Centre also accept further toll collection of 80 billion DKK in tolls by 2040, or will the Council of State – to stick to the Central Party programme – accept that this money is to be financed from public budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e221	To date, the Government has not, nor has it, taken a position on the extent to which part of the road investment to be financed by tolls up to 2030 and 2040. We'll get back to that in the next national transport plan. Then Per Sandberg will also be able to discuss it. Otherwise, I will record in the Progress Party's alternative budget that if one assumes that the Progress Party, on the basis of its high cigaretteing, is on tolls through its alternative budget, will cover the tolls that will be charged next year, they will have to cut off the roadways, because there is not so much increase in a deck. The basis for which I am in charge of the Ministry of Transport is, of course, the Soria Moria Declaration and the Government's policy. The Soria Moria statement doesn't say anything about tolls. We stick to the policy of a local wanting to provide a good transport project, that there is a strong spirit of hard work around the community to be involved in both initiating and adopting toll projects. I don't see it as my prime task to stop such projects when they arrive at my table. I thought it was nice that we in this country had a stop to split layers/co-financing that meant that we have built many road installations that had not had tolls, had never seen the light of day. It's lit the communities, it's started the business, and it's started the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e230	I record that the Council of State does not even suggest whether the Government will use more tolls or less tolls. I interpret her to the point that the sitting government will apply tolls also in 2007, and then to a greater extent than what we now see. What is more interesting is that the Council of State refers to the local commitment and the enthusiasm that is around the whole country. When I, as committee leader, travel and talk to the rapporteurs of the Central Party and others of the Central Party's local politicians, they say that they feel directly pressured by the Government and by the Council of State about using tolls. Another interesting moment is that this government, with a Central Transport Council, prioritises the railway. Then this is an interesting challenge for the Council of State: how would a prioritisation of the railways turn out in terms of infrastructure, business and people most in Finnmark, in Troms, in the Nordic countries or in our coastal communities, where there is great value creation? How would such a stake on the railway turn out positively in these districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e239	I am working on the policy adopted by the Stortinget in connection with the current national transport plan. Since the start of a national transport plan, we, as the first government, have actually met the road and rail framework this year. I'm very satisfied with that. In connection with this, of course, we have also increased the permissions to the railway. This government has a holistic transport policy. This means increasing investment on the roads in the districts and a massive investment in collective transport solutions in and around the big cities. We're not going to be able to build ourselves out of the increased traffic that we have around our big cities, if we don't use collective means. The advance party cut at 850 million. kr in their alternative budget will mean chaos in public transport. This means that we cannot support the expansion of the Sandvika-Lysaker route. This will mean that we could not have started the development of Alnabru, which depends on both freight and passenger traffic. That would be a bad policy on transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e248	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e251	I am very pleased that this became the second main question, because I sat in a queue from Asker and inward to Oslo where the average speed was 32 km. In this connection, I would like to record Oslopackak 3, which is a huge boost for the transport in Oslo and in Akershus. A broad local consensus has been reached, from the SV to the Progress Party, on solutions relating to collective funds – as mentioned by the Council of State in its previous reply – but also on new ways. New roads are needed in Oslo, which is a crossroads for the whole country. In this context, the Council of State cast doubt. In a response to Borghild Tenden from the Left, the Council of State says that it cannot be ruled out that one would charge a rush-time charge in Oslo. There are also raised doubts about the implementation of various road projects in Oslopackak 3. I thought the Center Party was a supporter of local self-government. Will the Central Party accept the local consensus reached on Oslopackak 3, or will it override?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e260	I am very pleased that this question comes up, because I have registered that one has tried to doubt in the media about the process that is going to take place in the Ministry of Transport when it comes to this matter. The thing hasn't come to my table, but it's usually for projects where the cost is more than 500 million. kr, has started work on quality assurance in the early stages – what is called KS1. This is done when all projects in this country have a cost of more than 500 million. kr. This project has a cost that is not only ten times the size of the project, it is 100 times the size of the project. Then it should just be missing that one shouldn't do the same thing here. It must also be in the interest of local politicians to look at all aspects of the case and get it as well distributed as possible. I can confirm that the imposition of a rush-time charge on the local politicians in Oslo's will will will not be recommended by this Minister for Transport. I am busy with the local self-government, and I am recording the resistance to the rush-time charge. I might have liked it differently, but I'm not going to override the locals when it comes to this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e267	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e270	There are some principles and guidelines for toll collection that we push on and that may be mature for revision. Toll financing for infrastructure varies greatly from state to state and from region to region. It is not necessary for some sections to be so expensive as to pass for individuals and for business people as to hinder the development of nutrition and housing. The Christian People's Party is, in principle, not against toll financing, but we believe that we should now have a comprehensive review of the guidelines. The previous government announced in St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004, National Transport Plan 2006–1015, that it would develop new analyses on infrastructure financing, in order to detect unintended consequences. My question then is: will the current Minister for Transport follow up such a review and in an appropriate manner inform the Storting of its conclusions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e279	It is quite right that there is a desire for such a review. Things that we've had in this room in my time, too, show that it may be right to carry out such a review. I have therefore started working with him and will get him on my table. I can assure the representative that I will return in my own way to Stortinget with that review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e284	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e287	I hear that the Minister of Transport boasts of the Government's commitment to public transport. Why would the reward scheme be reduced — which has been a success factor and was introduced by Bondevik II — by 45 million? Do you really want to delete this item? As I said, this arrangement has been very important to the big cities. The left had wanted to extend this scheme to several cities and major agglomerations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e293	This government is busy with public traffic. In the 2007 budget there is a commitment to public transport that I think I can call historic. We have increased the permits to the railways by NOK 1 billion, and within that path there are important measures in and around our big cities. Most of the interventions — with some exceptions, such as crossing tracks and action on the Nordlandsbana — are located in the major cities. We see this as a healing, and have therefore found it defensive to reduce the remuneration scheme in next year's budget. The second is that in the coming year we will evaluate the remuneration scheme. Let's look at how the system has worked, and see if the criteria we have set for allocation are good enough. Of course, we will come back to the Stortinget in next year's budget both with the result of the evaluation and with a commitment to the remuneration scheme, which is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, and which we will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e300	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e303	Let me first say that the NTP decision on road investment has not been followed up, despite a record use of tolls. This government does not like private solutions in hospitals, care for the elderly and school, but in road construction, privatisation is quite fine. The use of tolls by the Government is nothing but a privatisation of the road sector. Is that fair? Is it consistent that some states and municipalities should be able to buy for better roads, buy a higher priority than the national transport plan, buy less emissions, buy less congestion and buy less accidents through extensive use of toll payments from their own residents?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e310	As the representative Sandberg saw outstandingly read, the representative Sortevik knows that an ideal set, both in the Central Party and certainly in the other government parties, would have preferred to see the state pay this in full. I said in my previous answer that I have a great deal of respect for the splinter-layered thinking of local communities when it comes to toll financing. I'm not going, as I said, to stop the projects that come to my table in my time, unless it's completely revealed that poor solutions of different character are being provided. So to this with the intention of toll financing. I registered that the Progress Party's biggest group was completely outrun by Siv Jensen when she was in Bergen last week. She very much supported the idea of a high-speed train in Norway if the track was funded by the market. So in the Progress Party, it's perfectly good to finance the railways privately, but not by road. It's a funny divorce, which we can discuss further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e319	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e322	I have a question to the Council of State Djupedal. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important that everyone who wants it should be offered a good kindergarten and at a reasonable price. That's why the Christian People's Party has put a lot of effort into this. Student relations in Norway offer welfare services around the country. They contribute to equal opportunities for all to participate and perform in higher education. Student kindergartens offer cheap student children's playgrounds. They give priority to single student parents or parents where both are studying. In addition, they have opening hours — and it is important now that it is approaching Christmas — adapted to both exams, practice periods and lecture times. During the examination of the budget of the Education Committee last year, a clear majority – consisting of the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – chose to take into account the strong concerns raised by cutting the funding for the student children's gardens, which both the Bondevik government and the Stoltenberg government had proposed. The fear, which both we and the government parties took seriously, was that you would get an increase in parental pay for the students. Now the government is doing the same thing again. The student organisation Norsk Student Union is now afraid that interaction will have to cut off other important welfare services, in medical and health services and in mental health, in order to maintain an important childcare facility. In the long term, it is likely that we will again receive increased kindergarten prices in the student kindergartens. This is about giving everyone equal opportunities and equal rights to education. What is the reason why the Government does not want the students to benefit from the great effort that we put together in the kindergarten sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e333	As the representative Eriksen is familiar with, the government spends a record number of dollars next year on kindergarten betting. If you just see a few years back, kindergarten was a precious good for a few. Now we're going to make it a cheap good for the many. In this year's budget, which is now under discussion in Stortinget, we spend SEK 3.2 billion more than what we did in last year's budget. It's a significant reinforcement. The government's bet on kindergartens has made it possible for more people who want a nursery place to have a children's garden space at a reduced price. We're not quite in the goal yet. We have a very active year ahead of us. If we succeed in the great ambitious promise for next year, it could mean that by the end of next year, anyone who wants a nursery place for their child will have it. Student kindergartens are a very important part of the whole of this. We have many different components of this whole – student kindergartens, private kindergartens and public kindergartens – and we all wish to welcome you. An overall approach to the big effort that we are making in kindergartens is the reason why we have submitted this budget. Now, students have a majority in the board of directors, so if they want to maintain what they have today, they have the opportunity to do so. Since they have a majority in the governments of society, they also have a significant degree of financial autonomy. The proposal we have put forward to the Storting is a modest reduction, which we hope will not cause great difficulties for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e344	I thank you for your answer. I believe, however, that we have to realize, as the committee did last year, that the general nursery schooling that the Council of State puts out here is not the solution for these student children's gardens. These are student kindergartens, as I said in my main question, which are adapted to the student's examination reading time and lectures. It is worrying that if you choose to maintain an offer in kindergartens, it has to go beyond other areas of activity, such as: mental health, which is also important for this group of students. Although a general effort has now been made in kindergarten, my question to the Council of State is whether the concern we shared last year that this will have consequences for an offer that we need will also apply this year. I wonder if the Council of State will be pleased to find solutions, so that the special offers of the Student Children's Gardens will still have a good place, and that they can be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e351	Student kindergartens have a good place. They are an important complement to the other provision of kindergartens, and they are part of the overall offer made by the State. This means that they also receive funding in the usual way, as is the case with all other kindergartens in Norway. Most students have kindergartens in common kindergartens. The kindergartens of student relations are a very important supplement, but do not cover very close, as far as I can remember, the need that is. This means that we are very interested in the fact that student relations continue to expand kindergartens and have this offer to parents who are studying. But the government's overall kindergarten policy is the most offensive kindergarten policy any government has ever provided, and only in next year do we have the ambition to build almost 19 400 places. If we do that, it means that everyone in Norway is given the opportunity to have a kindergarten. Then we have fulfilled one of the oldest promises of Norwegian policy. In particular, the representative Eriksen's party has, through several election campaigns over many, many years, been concerned that we should have full coverage, that the price should fall, and that we should have high quality. And that's what our government is about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e360	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e363	Kindergartens are important, not just for students, but for the families of children in general. We noticed that SV in the current budget has broken its maximum price promise and increased the price. This is something we in the Progress Party like very badly. But I'll leave it in this context. Instead, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the NRK last week reported that up to 1000 private kindergartens are now struggling and are decommissioned because the municipalities are not equalising public and private kindergartens, i.e. that the municipalities are running away with hundreds of kindergartens. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to ensure real equality of treatment between private and public kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e375	Let me first say that the municipalities do not run away with money. It is a discretionary pot distributed, and child care funding is a complicated matter. The previous governments also know that. The system we have today for the allocation of funds is the same system as the previous government was behind it. This means that there is a discretionary spot that is distributed, because the cost of running kindergartens in Norway is different, based on the land price, based on many other factors that affect the costs of a nursery. When you have introduced a maximum price, which means you put a lid on your parents' payment, that means you have to have a system that transfers money to compensate for differences. This is a very demanding and very comprehensive system, and our government is interested in seeing if it can be done in a better way than today. I fully understand that there are weaknesses in today's allocation model, and that is something we are also in dialogue with private kindergartens about. But we will come back to Stortinget once we have gone through this carefully enough, because, as I also think the representative Knudsen is aware, there are no very simple answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e382	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e385	The cut-off of the student children's gardens goes into a wide range of cuts this government is making in higher education and research, and this leads to the great paradox that while all other parents get cheaper kindergartens, students get more expensive kindergartens. I want to draw attention to one of the other cuts that the Government is doing. So the increase in research appropriations for the Ministry of Knowledge budget in the draft budget is about 360 million. kr. Of these, 519 million are written. from the return of the Research Fund. In other words, the government reaps the fruits of the investments that the former government made. But if we subtract 519 from 360, we're left with negative 159 million. kr in direct research appropriations for the Ministry of Knowledge's budget. My question is: on what basis does the Council of State consider it appropriate to cut 159 million. D in direct research appropriations for the Ministry of Knowledge budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e394	Our government is putting forward a research budget that has a growth of approx. 900 million. kr. It's true that it's not a real growth. Compared to what we did last year, it's approx. NOK 2.4 billion more in pure dollars for research. It's a very ambitious bet. So our government has bigger ambitions here, and we will come back to that. Research is a very important part of the overall research and knowledge policy of our government, as it has also been for previous governments. But if you compare here with what we've done over the 13-14 months that we've been sitting on, there's a higher level of research now than it was under the previous government. In the four years they were sitting, the individual years even had negative growth in research, at a very low level of SEK 2.3 billion, and the greatest growth in research that the previous government had had, in fact, had been achieved when, in a change in the key, the Research Fund contributed a significant number of billions. That went against the then government. What I'm concerned about is – in a dialogue with the Stortinget, of course – to bet on research. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e403	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e406	I would like to see the Council of State clarify a mystery. When you charge SEK 3.2 billion on kindergartens and at least half a billion on top of it, at least, on top of something, and when you aim to do this, how in the world it's possible – with SEK 3.2 billion on kindergartens as well as treating universities and colleges in the way that the previous speaker said – to cut SEK 10 to 15 million. kr on the student children's gardens? How is that possible? One would think that if the Council of State first chose to prioritise kindergartens in front of everything else, it would be consistent. Then, for example: Prime Minister Stoltenberg went to cut the cord in Trondheim, a city that the Council of State knows very well, because the students met a municipality like this. defines student loans as income. So my question to the Council of State is, how is it possible to make such a cut to kindergartens for students, when you have SEK 3.2 billion available?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e415	I record that the Left in its alternative state budget significantly increases the maximum price and in that way finances very many other important measures that the Left is committed to. Of course, the left is completely free to do. Our government is concerned that we should have a maximum price that allows anyone who wants it to have a kindergarten. Our general pediatric policy has been expressed in a previous answer, and it is the most ambitious policy in the kindergarten area any government has ever had. I also register with some amazement that in the opposition you mean something other than what you did in the position. It was the opposition parties that started the big bet on kindergartens under the previous government – they went against this in Stortinget – but despite that, we got a start on the big baby hail lift. I am very proud that our government is now going to end it. That means that all children who want it will have a children's garden space at a reasonable price and of high quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e425	With the President's permission, State Council Djupedal can stay standing, for I intend to ask him questions. The opposition party SV had a proud, committed research policy — proper escalation of scholarship holders, scientific equipment, funds. Then SV gets in position via Soria Moria. At Soria Moria it still shines, but it fades when one gets record billions available. What's going on? A systematic down-priority of right-hand education and of research, bit by bit. Just listen to what I'm saying now – which is not the bets in any symphony: Abelia, ICT-Norway, Norwegian Industry, NHO, Research Association, Academics, University and Higher Education Council, Tekna, Norwegian Research Council. What do they have in common – that they play music? Maybe so. They have in common that they agree that the current government and the Council of State have systematically downgraded research. As I have recorded, the main line of defence of the Council of State was basically how previous governments have done it or not. But I'm going to deal with the Council's own party, SV, with a story I think there might be reason to be proud of in the research communication. The representative Rikvam said in his time about a proposal from the Bondevik II government to cut 20 million. on higher education that it was almost like approaching doomsday in relation to higher education. State councils shall be free to comment on the ratio of 20 million. kr and almost doomsday, and a cut of 274 million. kr. I believe that the word used would have been used up in this assembly. With this systematic effort and with the criticism that has come, and with a government council that is honest – he says straight out that now we take a rest cut – we get a quick break. As you know, I am not very interested in sports. How is it possible for the Council of State to be satisfied with this piece of rest, after which – to say – the overall comment that has come from such a wide range of organisations? I didn't even get to ram up everyone, I took a good selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e438	All of these are good organisations with which I have a good cooperation. But I have to be allowed to correct the picture, because the picture is not the way the representative Dørum says it is. From the budget we provided last year, which was half a budget after the corrections from the previous government, we increased the Research Fund by 14 billion kroner, and we had a real increase of approximately. One and a half billion dollars. It was the highest real growth in research ever. In this year's budget, we also have a clear real growth, we're increasing it by 900 million. kr. It's a real increase of three and something percent, as far as I remember. That means there's a real increase. There are many sectors in our society that have not seen a real increase at this level of over two years. In addition, we have spent 10 billion dollars next year on the Research Fund. That means that 24 of the 60 billion in the Research Fund have been added to our government. In addition, it has been added 18 billion kroner against the wish of the then government, by changing the key. That means that the majority of the increase in the Research Fund and the return there are our parties, those who are now in government, who have stood by. But I understand that the ambitions in research are high. St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005 Will for research, to which the representative of Dørum refers, gave high ambitions in the field of research. We have high ambitions in the field of research. During the one-and-a-half budget we have submitted, we have made a significant strengthening, a strengthening that is actually more significant than the strengthening under the previous government. That's not the most important point, but we have higher ambitions than that. I certainly believe that we can agree that research is one of the most important pillars of the value creation of a future knowledge society. That means that this search for knowledge, this curiosity, is important to stimulate. That's why it's important that our higher education institutions and our institutes get research opportunities. One of the most important areas of research cooperation is now the Seventh Framework Programme in the EU, into which we will go. We'll get back to Stortinget with a proposition on joining this. What's interesting to see is that our institutions, our researchers, have a very high rate of success in exploiting the various EU programmes. This links important international relations with our research communities, and is a very important arena for Norway as a nation to grow and become even more competent in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e453	The description of reality that I gave in response to the Council of State is supplemented by all the student organisations and by two excellent researchers in the evening post at the latest today. There is a point that sometimes there are some day-to-day policies. The government received such a day-to-day subsidy: there were a few billion more on tax revenue and on reduced sick pay. But what happens when this everyday wonder occurs? Indeed, the systematic outreach of research and higher education continues. Then it's no longer about the ability, because then, based on my government experience, the Council of State has watered in such a large amount of money that he would almost be in a state of happiness at a busted conference. The councils have watered so much money, and he manages to choose it away! Then I am left with the wonder: was it so that the will was locked into a pit on Soria Moria and the key was thrown away, and that later one has not managed to find it again? Capabilities are one thing. But will that is confusing is one of the saddest things that happen in politics. Since I have a trundish background, you have to view this indirect speech as a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e465	Large words don't change the numbers' speech. The figures are about the research effort our government has done, is real, and the bet is better than the one that the previous government had. When the representative Dørum now refers to the financing of a proposal that has been in the Stortingen relating to sick pay, it is not at all a question of any policy field other than precisely the field of sick pay. There has been a trial against the parties, and as other government councils have dealt with the Storting. Our starting point is this: we have very high ambitions in the field of research. I am very pleased that there are many researchers, research communities and organizations who agree that we should have high ambitions. I am also pleased that there is an active and ongoing opposition that keeps focusing on the importance of research for us as a nation. That is why we have also used considerable resources and should continue to do so. We have, as the representative Dørum is well acquainted with, been sitting for one year and a month or two, and fortunately have many budgets ahead of us. This means that we will come back with an even more offensive and even more ambitious policy in this area, in dialogue with the sector and with colleges – simply because this sector is infinitely important to us as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e476	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e479	I have to say I'm a little worried about the Council's response to the representative Dørum. It's not just about having a nominal increase in dollars, but we're talking about a measure that's adopted by this big thing about reaching 3 pst. of gross national product for research in 2010. At the time of the decision, we used 1.71 pst. of GDP in research. Today we use 1.5 pst. So that means that there's been a decline in the ambition level of the Storing that's quite dramatic. There is both a lag on the publicly funded part and the privately funded part. Today we are close to 2007. The Council of State will now be involved in assessing a change in the allocation profile and the distribution between private and public research efforts, e.g.: by increasing the public research share to 1,4 pst. and reduce the private equivalent? Or will the Council of State here and now confirm that Norway is not able to achieve the ambitious research goal by 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e486	NIFU STEP has just published comparisons of research figures for Norway. It shows that our share, the one granted by Stortinget, goes up, while it is the privately funded part that goes down. That we're now going down from 1.7 pst. to 1.5 pst. This is due to two things: one is a very steep growth in GDP, that it is linked to GDP. In Norway, oil price-related GDP is growing very rapidly. The second is that research appropriations from private Norwegian institutions and companies are unfortunately falling. We're worried about that because 2 pst. the total research effort shall be carried out by private enterprises. We're busy having a dialogue with them if there's other grips than the ones we already have, which can make us get a higher share. That's why I've invited Finn Bergesen to the Government Research Committee on 7 December, where we're going to start a dialogue on how, as a government in dialogue with business, we can make business spend more money on research. Especially at a time when Norwegian business is going better than ever, I have to allow myself to say that I find it sad that business is not spending more money on what is future value creation through research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e491	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e494	It is disappointing in an overall research environment around the budget that was presented. Understanding the interaction between the private sector and the public sector in stimulating research efforts. The Government is making significant restrictions on the tax FUNN scheme. The Government and the Minister of Knowledge maintain the objective of 3 pst. research efforts of GDP, which he also repeats here. In such a light, it is amazing that it makes sense to make a marked contraction in an unbureaucratic system, which reaches Small Business Norway in the whole country. However, the Minister of Knowledge has not found it worth calculating the impact on the demand for research services at universities, colleges and institutes. Many companies I have talked to say that SkattenFUNN is now almost uninteresting, and Norwegian industry believes that the proceeds are not worth 150 million. NOK, as estimated, but it may amount to 500 million. kr. Does the Minister of Knowledge think that the tightening up of the tax FUNN will not affect these institutions at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e503	There is a ceiling on employee income in the TaxFUNN scheme. This means that you cannot subtract unlimited amount of time for each individual researcher to calculate. I think most people would think that's a reasonable approach, to make sure you don't have any abuse. You can't subtract more than a year per. researcher in hours, related to what a normal hour is. These are two limitations, which will initially focus on the fact that you cannot have unlimited high pay, and at the same time on the basis of a year's work. Both of these are schemes that we are constantly engaged in dialogue with business. There are proposals that will, of course, ensure that there is no abuse of the system, which is a very good system. In dialogue with business, I record an increasing interest in how we can manage to get new ways of working together. One of the things we've been getting is research-driven innovation. These centres, which are located all over Norway, are very good cooperation venues between our leading research communities and outstanding private companies. For this, we are using money from the state now, just to get this collaboration between private and public.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e510	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e513	It would have been tempting to talk about the emperor's new clothes, but I won't. I will take the word ‘restorative’, as the Council of State has called this budget. I've never really heard of anyone who needs to rest before they start. It's especially when you say in your first budget that you're already tired and you need a break. The Christian People's Party does not need a break. We've followed up the cut that the Council of State has done in relation to higher education, with both DKK 15 billion for research and 100 new scholarship positions, and we even have ten million to the student kindergartens, which are very important. My question to the Council of State is: AS Norway goes so much, it's not just business that does it. What is the Council of States really need to rest from? This could not be the focus on research and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e522	I used the term "sleep cutting" to describe the appropriations that go to the university and higher education sectors. They have to withstand a slight drop, that's right. At the same time, this sector has had a significant build-up of liquidity over the years. They have approx. NOK 6 billion in the account of the Bank of Norway, approx. 55 pst. of these are compulsory – pay, holiday pay and employer’s pay. Nevertheless, Norwegian higher education institutions have a significant amount of liquidity reserves in Norway’s Bank. It is positive, but it is also positive that this money applies to what they were thinking, namely for students and research. This means that the budget we have presented this year for the university and higher education sectors has a volume of about $20 billion, which is a significant amount. This means that there is no reason to believe that this year's budget will lead to a decline in activity, which means that we will have a good year for the university and higher education sectors as well, and then we will return to the Stortinget with a future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e527	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e531	The newspaper writes on 30 October: «Unrelenting judgment from 300,000 students: Chaos in Norwegian school.A little motivated.Distorted each other.Want to decide more.» This confirms international studies such as PISA and TIMSS. There is anxiety and lack of motivation in Norwegian school. Two days ago we could read that parents bring a lawyer to the conference hour. This is probably due to the fact that school-to-home trust in many contexts is at an impasse. Parents feel that they are alone in defending students’ right to training. It's a pretty dramatic and serious situation. – I forgot to say that the question is to the Minister of Knowledge, but he has probably understood that. – The parents feel alone, and the Progress Party has called for more commitment to cooperation between home and school. Most school politicians say the same thing in party speeches, but the results are missing. In his reply to the desperate parents in Dagbladet today, he insists that lawyers should at least not be used in the communication between parents and home. The parents have to take it alone and do their best. So the Council of State does not outline a solution to this crisis of confidence, but closes its eyes and travels the ideal tab instead of making constructive contributions. Now, of course, a government council cannot order parents not to bring assistance to the conference hours. The parents can do that freely. But since half-pages in the daily press are quite compact, today I want to challenge the Council of State to tell Stortinget what he has contributed to, quite concretely, to prevent a situation in which parents feel compelled to bring with them expert assistance in their contact with the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e555	Let me first say about the description of Norwegian school, that fortunately it is not as black as the representative Anundsen is now sketching. The student survey to which reference is made on the front page of Dagbladet shows that most Norwegian students — more than 80 pst. – thrives in Norwegian school and has a good school day. We can get even better professionally, but we have a very good foundation for Norwegian school to get better. I spend a lot of time in Norwegian school, and my impression is that there is very good cooperation between parents, students, school management and administration and teachers. But of course, there may be situations where a student feels unfairly treated. Then it's important that parents act in a way that doesn't weaken the teacher's authority. This means that you have to use a given opportunity to contact either the school’s management, the school’s owner or others — because you have to create a trust relationship in a school. If you're dissatisfied with a character, the answer is not to bring a lawyer. Lawyers have nothing to do with a parent conversation. There are parents, children and educators to be present. If you need further assistance to solve a problem, it can't be solved in the classroom. It must be resolved in other appropriate organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e562	I am grateful for the answer, but I do not feel that the Council of State expressed very many concrete measures that he has contributed to preventing the situation we actually have in school. I'm going to give him an opportunity to be a little more concrete, because the Progress Party believes that there is a connection between the influence that parents have on school everyday, and the result that the school operates after. The municipality of Larvik has conducted a trial at three schools using parental management, i.e. user management with user controllers where parents have had a majority. The experience from there is only positive. All those who have been involved in this project recommend that it continue and all boast that participation, parent-home cooperation, has improved significantly. However, this form of organisation is not permitted by the Training Act today. That means that the trial in Larvik has ended, despite Larvik's continuing, and despite the fact that all the schools involved wanted the same thing. Will the Council of State, in a situation where there is a crisis of trust between home and school, help municipalities to choose an organisational form with parental board?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e571	Let me first highlight how important the relationship with your parents is. Parents have a natural place in Norwegian school and a strengthened place in Norwegian school. It should not be the case that when parents go into the school arena, the school is foreign to them – that you are visiting. We see very clearly that parental involvement in school improves children's learning outcomes. We see that the school as a whole is growing on it. We are committed to finding new and enhanced cooperation relations between school and kindergarten. This process is under way, and Stortinget will also be brought to the attention of the case if not too long. The reason is that we so clearly see that parental involvement is positive. When it comes to changes in the training law related to the specific question, I don't want to deal with this right now, but I'm aware that someone wants such a development. Basically, I want to say that question we will come back to. Let me also say that throughout the Knowledge Lift and in what started with Trond Giske, which the previous government continued with, and which we now have, this premise with parents-home collaboration is like a very clear support beam. We're aiming to further strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e582	In order to raise six main questions, there are now two follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e585	In fact, there are quite a number of reports on major challenges related to home school contact. It is, as the representative Anundsen said, a matter of building a trust relationship. In many cases it's about inviting your parents in, so here's a complex causal relationship. I can give the Minister of Knowledge another example. In fact, Storhamar's school in Hamar has been conducting a scheme that they call the parental school for years. It creates contact, builds barriers and invites parents in. It's been a great success, and in that school you don't have parents who don't show commitment -- it's an unknown concept. So if the government wants concrete examples, he has something to look at there. My question is: Will the Council of States help to focus on this issue, in line with his many speeches about how important the contact with parents is? And will he also be involved in financing this type of experiment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e594	Let me say that I am very much around the country visiting schools, kindergartens and institutions of many kinds. Seeing that there's a diversity in how you choose to get into school is positive. It's part of local self-government, in which I have great faith. That means that the type of project you have at Storhamar is very positive. I would like to welcome this type of project, along with many other projects that we fortunately have in Norwegian school. We have a lot of school owners and school managers who take their responsibilities seriously. Let me say that's a very important piece of it. It becomes increasingly clear to me that those who take their school manager and school owner responsibility seriously achieve better professional results and greater well-being. That's why it's the commitment that many places show from the parents, a very important part of the whole to create a good learning environment and a good welfare environment for our children. We will therefore, as I said in the previous answer, come back in a very short time to the question of home-school cooperation and parental participation. There will be an important part of the whole of what our government is doing to improve children's ability to master at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e599	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e602	I like the good signals coming from the government here, because when home and school work together, we give our students the best learning opportunities. Such conditions as we've read about in the media, we can't have when we're going to build trust between home and school. A school that I visited here in Oslo, full of trust between parents and school, attendance at parental meetings, etc. There we got a wish from the principal to free up a job in order to be able to work purposefully with home-school cooperation – a full-time employee. There's a lot of good things done in many schools, but you quickly use up the cancers on other things. This is something that the Christian People's Party has in its alternative budget. We hope that the Council of State will assess whether one can obtain a pilot project in each state, whether such a full-time employee can help build trust between parents and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e609	I don't want to take a stand from Stortinget's pulpit on a project request, but just on a general basis say that I am very positive about parental cooperation with the school. This can be done in many different ways. That it can be done in this way is, of course, a good alternative, and it has school owners today full freedom to do. But we have to remember that we have FUG, which is the parental committee for primary school. It is a very good organisation, which conducts continuous training and contact, and also shows examples of how school-parent cooperation can be. We have a very close cooperation with FUG. It's a very important piece of the whole of this parental cooperation. Parents are a very important piece – let me underline it again – of the school as a whole. But what we also have to remember is that the teachers at school have to be authorities, but they shouldn't be authoritarian. Teachers in school have to make sure that everything they do underpins the teacher as a person and the teacher as an authority in the classroom and in the school. Of course, it's infinitely important that the kids see that there are adult people in the classroom who actually do the job that society wants them to do, and then we have to find the collaborative venues to make the performance better in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e618	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e622	I'm sure the Minister of Knowledge can only get up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e627	All right!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e634	First of all, I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge to consider a minimum of precision. There's no real growth of 900 million. in the research appropriations entered in this budget. It's in the budget paper, and the Council of State should know that. Secondly, there is an image here today of the opposition having high ambitions on behalf of the knowledge and research area in Norway. We see that in the alternative budgets that all the opposition parties have put forward, where we are all correcting the harmful cuts that the government is making. If you go back a year and look at what happened when SV made their own proposals in connection with the research report, that was not how ambitious everything should be. It was to be earmarked for scientific equipment for 1 billion dollars a year, a specific objective was to be set for the stepping up of the Research Fund, targets were to be set for budgetary appropriations, etc. But I'm recording that all these escalating plans and views disappeared in the fog of Soria Moria, and there they are obviously still. There's one special thing I'd like to draw attention to, and those are the missing scholarship holders. Right-wing questions were asked to the Council of State about the background to the Government breaking the agreed escalation plan to grant money to 350 new scholarship holders a year up to and including 2007. Governments replied: «The review of the need for new scholarship positions is a follow-up to St.meld. No 20 where it states that the question of continuation and possible adjustment of the escalation plan will be considered in 2007.’» [[2004-2005]] The escalation plan will apply until 2007! Not granting money to a single grant position in the 2007 budget is not a follow-up to the research communication, but a break in the research communication. The review is good enough, but my question to the Council of State is: why is it necessary to break an escalation plan that SV Sijl has been involved in adopting, in order to carry out a review one year before the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e648	As I have said, our government has very high ambitions in the field of research, and we have fulfilled them in the first year. So we have $2.4 billion more. It was a real growth last year, and it's also a real growth this year. That means it's net used 900 million. In this year's budget, there is a significant strengthening in the field of research. Then we have higher ambitions than that. But I'm recording that you're based here on a big message that was widely agreed on in the previous period, and we're following it up. It is also an important premise, both in thematic and volume terms, in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're going to come back to that, but I'm going to record that during the one year we've been sitting, we've done more in this field than the previous government has been able to do in its four years. At that time, some years of research had a real decline, down to 2.3 pst. – after Stortinget added to research. My point is not to say that the previous government did not have such high ambitions. But we have high ambitions, and I am very pleased that the Stortinget, and also many educational institutions, point to the importance of research. We'll follow that up. This year's budget is good for research, but we have higher ambitions than this, and we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e655	I'm recording that the Council of State is chronic unpresis. So it's not a net increase of 900 million. This research budget is well known by the Council of State. I also record that he says that it is a good budget for research. It is strange that all research and higher education institutions have called this budget tragic and poor. Kolbjørn Hagen in the Swedish Research Association believed it was «a black day for Norwegian research». How, then, does the Minister feel that this is a good budget for research? I would also like to repeat my question, which I did not get the answer to: Why is it necessary to stop, and break the stepping-up plan for the number of fellows now – one year before the plan expires – to carry out a review? Governments haven't responded to that. I would like an answer as to why this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e664	We want a review of this, and we want to get back to Stortinget with it. Scholarship positions are important for recruiting for research positions. We're positive about that, and we'll get back to that. My description of research is related to what we have presented to the Stortinget, which is now being treated here. I agree that there are many who have high ambitions – and we are going to have high ambitions in this field. What I'm a little surprised is that the representative of Southide is not spending time on, is that the research part in the private sector is going back, while the research part in the public sector is going forward. The dialogue we're going to have with Bergesen about how we're going to make sure that these 2 psts. is reached by private business, is a very important piece of the whole. That target of 3 pst. as this government has, and as the previous government also had — and is adopting the objectives of the EU Lisbon Strategy — is very ambitious. 2 pst. I hope that the dialogue with industry in this area will enable us to come up with new proposals, so that industry will focus more on research. It will be positive for our value creation and our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e671	There will be two follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e674	I am surprised that the Council of State explains the government's lack of research effort that the industry's share of research has fallen. I can't quite see that context. At the same time, I find it strange that the Council of State here is so clear that it is important to find new tools to increase the private research share. At the same time, the Government has introduced a tightening up of the tax FUNN scheme. The tax FUNN scheme is the best system ever implemented, according to industry itself, to increase private research efforts. I then think that the Council's response to the questioner is not entirely related, and therefore I would like to challenge him in the budgetary procedure to help correct the tightening-up of the TaxFUNN system, so that the best system can be maintained so far – without tightening up. I would again challenge the Council of State to say a few words about whether it is possible to imagine that the public share of the 3 pst. target is rising, so that we can be a little more realistic compared to the 2010 target.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e683	Once again, I have to refer to the NIFU STEP. The NIFU STEP survey, which has just been published, shows that the public interest is rising, while the private sector is falling. It's true that we're moving further away from the goal of 3 pst. So it's a combination of two things: it's because of a very steep growth in GDP in Norway, and it's because, unfortunately, it's less private research. But we have high ambitions in this field, and that means that in a dialogue with business, we will also look into whether there are new instruments that we can introduce, strengthen instruments that are there, or otherwise find cooperative areas with private enterprises, public enterprises or publicly funded institutions just to see if it is possible to do this. That's the dialogue I'm inviting you to. Historically, there are also many reasons why industry is not researching to the same extent as in Finland and Sweden. It is mainly linked to the industrial structure in Norway. Now I think the economic situation is so good for Norwegian business that together we have to look into whether part of the profit we are now generating can go to research more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e690	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e693	It may, with respect, appear that the Minister of Knowledge does not respect the knowledge of Norway about his budget. Since the Council of State has now entered the Left's budget and told us that we have taken the burden of increasing kindergarten prices by 200 million. I have to say that we have also done something else: we have increased the research rate by 800 million. NOK, to just follow up with 350 fellows, 100 post doc. posts, 200 million. kr to scientific equipment, and in addition we remove the cuts in universities and colleges, including private colleges. The question from the representative Anundsen here was about tightening up the tax FUNN system, which a whole business life says is a hopeless proposal, because it makes a system that was easily accessible, bureaucratic, and we have taken on the responsibility that we do not want to strangle this system. And it's pretty amazing that the red-green government didn't think business would do in relation to research. Well, well. So the first thing you do is you tighten it up, so it sucks. I would like to say as the representative of Anundsen, and I support it: will the Government reverse the hopeless restrictions they have made on the tax FUNN, so that the business community can continue to deliver in order to build research efforts in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e699	So as far as the Tax Fund is concerned, two changes have been made. One is that you can't subtract more than one year, that's the total number of hours that are normal for a year's work. The second is that you've put a roof on how high an hour you can have for a scientist. Both measures have been taken to prevent abuse of a system that could be misused. I think it's kind of hard to think that you should be able to subtract more than one year. A research year's work is now a research year's work. It means that this is what this arrangement is. But we want to see, of course, on an ongoing basis, also in dialogue with industry and in dialogue with the representative of Dørum, whether there are better ways to do this to prevent abuse. The business community should know that we are engaged in a dialogue to provide more research activity in the private sector. We're very dependent on it. Unfortunately, they have not used enough of their surplus to invest in research in the good years they have left behind. This is why the dialogue with the business community is very important. But let me also say: I fully share the ambition that Norway will use even more of its GDP. That is why we are now in dialogue on this. Fortunately, the public's share of this goes up, but unfortunately it doesn't go up for the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e706	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e712	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – This is deemed to be adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Siri A. Meling to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes. Question 11, from the representative Ib Thomsen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport who is directing the person. Question 14, from the representative of Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Justice, will be taken up by the representative of André Oktay Dahl. Question 15, from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease defect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e731	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘Many taxpayers feel that it needs to be processed for obvious errors. inadequate treatment of property tax matters in local authorities. Competence is far weaker than in the EQU in terms of tax bases and tax lights. Will the Council of State take the initiative to introduce rules, as in the Equation Act, which ensure that taxpayers cover expenditure on legal assistance in property taxes in the same way as in the Equation Act § 9-11?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e745	I see that there is a need for clearer rules on dealing with property taxes. The rules contained in the Property Tax Act are very economical and partly not in force. The government has already announced that it will do something about it. The rights of taxpayers to cover legal expenses are governed by the Equation Act § 9-11. Where the settlement subject, tax subject or tax subject amends an equation decision in favour of the taxpayer, a grant of the taxpayer total or partial coverage of the treasury for substantial costs of action shall be made. This applies when the costs have been incurred for good reason and it would be unreasonable if the taxpayer had to cover it. In Ot.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, an extension of that provision was proposed. This concerns the recovery of costs incurred in the context of appeal proceedings which have not been brought in the context of the conciliation, county tax or national tax, where the taxpayer is subject to subsequent court rulings. As can be seen in Ot.prp. No 77 for the 2005-2006 section 14.4.3, the Ministry of Finance intends to come back with a review and assessment of the rules of procedure and appeal in respect of the issuing of property taxes. This work is now under way in the Department. I want to make sure that in connection with this review we assess whether property tax matters should be subject to a rule on the recovery of costs according to a similar model as in paragraphs 9-11 of the Equation Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e756	I thank you for the answer, which I actually perceive a bit on the way positive. I perceive the Minister of Finance so that she now considers property tax in the same way as other taxes, even though it is the municipalities that both establish the basis and collect it. But taxpayers, and citizens, see it in the same way as ordinary taxes, and it will be important to have the same opportunities to meet the cost of business when you get there. I want to pay particular attention to the argument that is also on my question, that in the municipalities you do not get the help, the procedure, the competence that otherwise lies in the bill of equations, and therefore it is perhaps even more important that at least in these cases you can get a refund of the costs when you get there. So I hope that the Minister of Finance aims to get at least as good rules as it is in the Equation Act and otherwise in the Administrative Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e763	I must be allowed to return to Stortinget with this matter. But, as I have already said, this is a problem which is being worked on in the department and which has been reported to the Stortinget in the past. I have also said in my first answer that we see that there is a need for clearer rules of procedure in this area. I believe that the representative fleet must lubricate with a little patience, and then we will be allowed to come back to a more thorough review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e770	I am always happy when the Minister of Finance has partially positive answers, and she does sometimes have some of the issues that are being raised. What matters to taxpayers is what she herself refers to now in her last answer, this at the pace. I then have to ask her to go back to the department and run on those who are going to do this job, so that something happens, and that it happens quickly. There are a lot of people waiting for this to be clarified, and who are struggling with this in very general cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e777	It works – I can assure the representative Fleet – with a lot of pressure, and with a lot of things, in the Ministry of Finance. No one sits with his legs on the table and whistles and wonders what to do. So we have high pressure in all matters, and we expect to come back to the Storting with this matter as soon as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e786	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘If father or mother arranges for child support for their child to be maintained after death, if any, by taking out insurance, contributors may deduct that amount from the tax. If the contributor dies, contributions are considered to be income for the child, while the surviving spouse has to pay taxes on the contribution to the child is 17 years old. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to tax survivors and, at the same time, consider paid contributions as income for the child?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e795	Under the Children’s Act, child contributions are not taxable for the recipient. This is related to the fact that the contributor does not have the right to deduct the contribution. If one of the parents dies, the child receives a child's pension in accordance with the National Social Security Act. Such pensions are provided until the child reaches the age of 18 and until the age of 20 if both parents are dead and the child is under education. In this way, it can be said that the State will take over as a contributor in one of its parents’ deaths, by replacing the child benefit with a child pension. The child’s pension is taxable, but the child receives a special income deduction if he/she has additional labour income. In principle, there is no right to deduct private insurance premiums. However, the contributor may have signed an individual pension agreement that has granted the right to deduct under the tax law, § 6–47, first paragraph, point (c) and where the child is favoured. There may also be a post-employment pension with survivors' pensions for children. When the insurance case occurs, the child receives a child pension. However, such a child pension is not a contribution from a deceased parent but is a taxable capital income. There is thus a relaxation in the legislation by the fact that the pension is not included in the personal income and is therefore only taxed as general income, i.e. 28 pst. Children under the age of 13 are likened to parents for all wealth and income. Children from 13 to 16 years of age who have their own labour income shall be compared separately with the labour income. any capital income, such as: However, a child’s pension shall be similar to that of the parents. Thus, when surviving parents are taxed for child pensions for children under 17 years of age, this is due to the fact that children’s capital income is generally similar to that of their parents, rather than to the child’s autonomy. This co-taxation between children and parents is justified on the grounds of keeping pace with the progress of the tax system, otherwise the family could obtain more tax-free basic amounts and lower tax rates by applying for income among the family members. I see no need to change these rules on the taxation of child pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e810	To clarify this a little bit: I understand that there should be as much coherence as possible between the taxation of pensions and the taxation of income. This case exposes an unfairness in the tax system, because the mother, as a recipient of a father who lives, does not pay taxes on the contribution, but whose father dies and has been so predictable to arrange it that the child can still receive contributions after his death, Mother has to pay taxes on it. Doesn't the Council of State see the untruth that lies in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e817	I think I just have to point to the answer, where we go through the tax rules for child contributions. So the person who pays child contributions has no right to deduct, and so it is not taxable for the recipient either. This means that it is taxed on the child contributor's hand. When we compare it with these child pensions that occur if a contributor has subscribed to an insurance contract, and then falls from, it will be a contribution that he himself has not paid taxes or received a tax advantage from at the moment he provides the money for that plan, but that will then be taxed when it is paid. So you could say that these amounts are taxed, but there are two different systems: because a contributor has no tax credit for the contribution, there is tax exemption on the beneficiary's hand, but because a child pension gives tax benefits at the moment you save the amount, it is taxable at the moment you receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e824	I hear what the council says. I believe that this is an unintended outcome. The starting point is that the child has a full amount as long as the father lives. After the father is dead, the child will actually receive a tax on it, even if it goes through Mother's hand. It could have been desirable if the Council of State had been willing to look at this — because there are not many, there are a few. Would it have been possible to look at any legislative changes for the very ones involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e831	It's not like this is a child's contribution in that sense. There is an insurance contract that someone enters into, but that many who lose a parent do not have. In all cases, the state is providing a child pension through popular security. The challenge when we're going to have a fair tax system is that at some point all income is to be taxed, and since there's been tax relief at the moment you save the amount, it's taxed at the moment you receive the amount. Therefore, there is a context in which this is treated through the tax system. It is very difficult to imagine the introduction of many tax relief schemes, which means that some income never comes to taxation. That's the background for the code as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e842	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Diabetes is a serious chronic disease. In Equation-ABC, people with diabetes are told to ‘probate’ their expenses, while the Equation Offices now require people with diabetes to ‘document’ their expenses. Who receives a reduction in diabetes is now completely arbitrary, depending on the individual Equations Office, sometimes also a case manager. What can the Council of State do to clean up the unfair special deduction for diabetics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e851	In the context of the 2005 budget, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the system of special deductions for large costs of disease. These changes included, inter alia: diabetics are faced with the same documentation/probability requirements as others who require such a special deduction. Depending on the nature of the expenditure, it may be reasonable to require sufficient corroboration or if detailed evidence, typically original supporting documents. It is an obvious objective of the Equation Treatment that everyone should be properly treated according to the rules. Unfortunately, the 2005 Equation Treatment relating to special deductions for diabetics has not been fully satisfactory. In August of this year, we received information on discrimination at the Equations Offices. The Ministry then immediately contacted the Tax Directorate in order to identify practices, so that we could decide what had happened, and what could possibly be done to ensure equal and fair treatment of such requirements for special deductions in the future. I have also met with the Norwegian Diabetes Association to discuss this matter. A measure taken by the Tax Directorate to ensure equal and equitable treatment is to extend the topic of Equation ABC for 2006. This will provide a detailed description of the costs that can be considered related to diabetes disease and can therefore provide the basis for special deductions for diabetics and for the likelihood/documentation of these diabetes costs. The Ministry has asked the Directorate-General for Taxation to start a dialogue with the Norwegian Diabetes Association in the context of the work on an expanded topic in Equations-ABC for 2006. The Tax Directorate will also make a reference to the subject, which will be posted on the tax haven's website. Such a reference will ensure that diabetics have knowledge of the documentation/probability requirements that apply after the 2005 amendment. The requirements for their expenditure and their repudiation/documentation will also be further specified in the guidance given to taxpayers together with the declaration. The Ministry has also asked the Tax Directorate, as soon as the new report in Equations-ABC for 2006 is ready, to send it to all the national Equation Offices, so that it can be taken into account in the examination of the 2005 equations that are subject to deferred treatment, review or review. As a result, mistakes made in the 2005 equation can be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e864	I thank you for your answer. From my point of view, I would like to stress that the question is not whether or not diabetics should have special deductions, but it is about the fact that there are different practices from the Equation Office to the Equation Office, just what the Council of State was now talking about. Discrimination seems unfair and unfair. I hear the Council of State says that she has taken hold of this, and that new guidelines are being worked on. But if you've got the diagnosis of diabetes, it's pretty clear and simple, and it has its consequences in terms of increased costs. Would it not have been easier simply to have a diabolical deduction for this group of chronic diseases, so that this could have been easily treated by the Equations Offices without any evidence or similar?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e873	As the representative is familiar with, this is a matter we inherited from the previous government. It was the previous government that put this in place, and we have now passed it on. The background to not reintroducing a template is that it does not apply to any other disease groups that have this type of special deduction and that it is reasonable to treat all disease groups in a non-discriminatory manner. But then I and the Ministry of Finance in dialogue with the Diabetes Association have seen that this is difficult to practice, and that it is unclear and different how different Equations Offices have treated it. That's another question that we have to address. I feel that we are now engaged in a constructive dialogue with both the Diabetes Association and the Tax Directorate in order to find a practical solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e880	I am pleased with the positive dialogue between the authorities and the Diabetes Association in this area, but I cannot help but stress that in this Chamber most parties have been concerned that we should have a simpler Norway. I suspect that there is too much resources being used in the Equation Offices for further work to go through possibly bags with attachments that diabetics have kept when they have shopped etc. I don't think this is the right use of the resources. I encourage the Council of State to continue to see if this can be done as simply as possible. The simpler it is, the fairer the treatment will often be at the different equality offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e885	It is precisely this dialogue that is about how the requirements for corroboration/documentation should be in order to create a simple and predictable system. In the further dialogue, we will discuss how this is to be done, so that people are not allowed to come to the Equation Office of hardworking Equation officials with the carrier bag full of all the receipts. It is possible to do this in such a way that you can verify what the cost is in a shorter period of time and predict it for an entire year, for example. So we're in good dialogue to get practical, good solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e894	This question, from the representative Siri A. Meling to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e897	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘What is the status of Syrian and Iranian prosecution of those responsible for the attacks at the Norwegian embassies in Damascus and Tehran and is the Foreign Minister satisfied with the priority of these very serious cases in the legal systems of the two countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e904	Norway has formal obligations vis-à-vis Syria and Iran, i.e.: in the form of notes, protested against the embassy attacks in Damascus and Tehran, which took place on 6 and 7 February of this year. The notes were sent on 6 and 9 February respectively. In addition to that, let me also say that we have voiced our protests in meetings with Syrian and Iranian representatives. We promoted a total claim of nearly 9 million by a note dated 20 March. NOK 8,794,835, vis-à-vis the Syrian authorities. And by a note dated 6 April, a total claim of almost 70 000 kroner was presented, rather 69 100 kroner, to the Iranian authorities. I raised this question of compensation payments during my visit to Syria a few weeks ago, more specifically on 6 November. On the part of the Syrian authorities, assurances were given that compensation payments will be made and that only technical matters remain, i.e.: relationships with bank transfers. From the Iranian side, we have not yet received equivalent insurance. No legal proceedings have been brought against the respective authorities by Norway or requested status in any prosecution of the persons responsible. The internal criminal prosecution brought about by the embassy attacks is the responsibility of the respective states. I assume that the respective authorities follow this up. We've also made that clear. At the same time, I can add that during my visit to Damascus I also raised the question of the prosecution of those responsible behind the attacks at our embassy with my Syrian colleague. He could confirm to me that the matter is under investigation by the Syrian authorities. Our embassy in Damascus has recently been handed over the research material in Arabic, and it will be reviewed as soon as possible. We have also made it quite clear to the Syrian and Iranian authorities in the past that this type of attack on embassies is not acceptable and that we assume that the necessary measures are being taken to prevent anything similar from happening again. We have also promoted international claims against Syria and Iran. I took this up especially with my Syrian colleague during the visit to Damascus earlier this month. So just a closing comment on whether I'm satisfied with the priority of these very serious issues in the legal systems of the two countries. To that I would say that the Norwegian eyes are not satisfied that such serious actions have not been followed up more resolutely. But I've done it the way I've expressed it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e921	This case has several pages. One is legal prosecution; the other is the economic settlement, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs explained in his reply. I have to say I am somewhat surprised that the settlement from Damascus is not actually in place yet. About five weeks ago, October 13, the Evening Post announced that the Syrian authorities had agreed to pay close to $8 million. kr. According to Ambassador Longva, the Norwegian authorities had asked to have the money paid in euros in an account abroad, so it would be a few days before the sum could be disposed of – it had already been paid if one had taken it in Syrian pounds. This is over five weeks ago. The foreign minister has recently visited Damascus, and the money is still not in place. I want to ask an additional question: does the Foreign Minister feel that this is a settlement that is taking place in secret to the public in Syria, or is there full transparency about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e930	To the last question, I think we have to say that according to the Norwegian standard there is in no way full transparency about it. This is not a matter that dominates in Syrian media. Neither are political groupings that come out and run for it. I think that's a characteristic of the Syrian regime. When it comes to settlement, I choose to believe until further notice that we're going to get it into port. Transfers of money from the Syrian authorities to the Norwegian authorities in the euro are now a complex matter, also in the light of the many restrictions imposed on banking relations with Syria. I set as a clear condition for my visit to Syria that this matter had to be brought to a principal conclusion. I believe that we have been given that decision, and that the documentation that has been sent to us is a clear statement to that effect. Then we have to find the technical form – whether this comes in Syrian pounds or in euro. At least it has to be real. We are working on this from day to day, but I choose to assume that this money will be paid out and settled. The Syrians have thus, by publishing numbers and putting themselves behind them, clearly stated that they have a responsibility to pay the repairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e937	I record that in terms of legal prosecution of those responsible, we hope that this will happen. When it comes to the payment of the amounts, we have faith that it will happen. But it has not been done so far. In conclusion, I would like to ask if the Minister for Foreign Affairs perceives what has happened, and how it is handled, as a burden on our relationship with Syria – and that in a phase in which we know that the West has got a slightly changed view of how to deal with Syria as part of the larger Middle East conflict, and to establish a dialogue. Norway has traditionally been an important player in conflict resolution in the Middle East, and the essential thing for us is to have a relationship with the different parties. Perhaps this is particularly important in a phase in which we also see initiatives from Iran to draw both Damascus and Baghdad closer, perhaps a bit like 'pre-emptive', before the West gets on the road in relation to Syria? Is this a burden on our relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e946	The representative raises more questions here, and they're interesting and important. Let me first say that it is clear that what happened in February was a burden on our bilateral relationship. There's no doubt about it. Unfortunately, it is not that we can dictate how to prosecute this in the Syrian regime, but we have clearly expressed our views. I choose to believe that when it comes to the replacement, we're going to get it in place. My journey to Damascus was an expression of exactly what the representative stresses, that we want to involve Syria in a dialogue that obliges them, rather than that they are not responsible. Having that kind of dialogue is not an easy solution. What has happened in Lebanon over the past few hours is an expression of how vulnerable this situation is. But the very example mentioned by the representative of Vallersnes, that Iran now wants to take diplomatic initiatives to create groupings, emphasizes, in my opinion, the importance of the West being quick to commit Syria, commit them, make them responsible and also keep pressure up. This is what Norway wants to contribute to in line with the tradition we have in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e957	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for the Environment: «I St. pp. No 1 shows the Government a broad commitment and bet in the North, inter alia through the allocation to the International Polar Year. [[2006-2007]] Can it also be expected that this effort will result in a reinforced state emphasis on climate research in the northern regions, especially in the New Ålesund and at the Zeppelin Observatory, in the short and long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e966	We are facing major environmental challenges in the north, where climate change is probably the biggest challenge, with major global impacts. This leads to a need for substantial new knowledge in a number of disciplines and communities. Climate research will therefore be strengthened in 2007, including: through a major commitment to the NORKLIMA National Research Programme. At the same time, it is acknowledged that this is knowledge that Norway alone cannot obtain. This must be done in international research cooperation. We therefore have high expectations for the international research year in the period 2007-2009. The aim of the international research year is precisely that, by internationally lifting in a flock, we can achieve knowledge that is otherwise not possible, for example. a description of the climate processes. We have competent and internationally recognised polar research environments in Norway, and participation in the international research year will further strengthen this important research. In addition, the Norwegian research and monitoring infrastructure at Svalbard will be an important Norwegian contribution to the international research year. The Zeppelin Station in the Ny-Ålesund region is thus central to its unique location in the European part of the Arctic. The station's strength lies primarily in combining the very high latitude location in an environment that is uncontaminated in many respects, with easy accessibility and well-developed infrastructure. The Zeppelin station already has an important role in international climate research and monitoring. The station measures a wide range of greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting compounds and is established as a central reference station in a global network. The measurements carried out are Norway’s contribution to the international network for the monitoring of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere. Increased efforts on research and monitoring in the north will provide insight into both ongoing climate change and the strengthening effects of climate processes in the region on global warming. Climate research will be strengthened in 2007 with special emphasis on the north. In addition, the International Research Year will further strengthen climate research in the period 2007-2009, and the Government will return to climate monitoring efforts, including in the context of the Northern Region Strategy presented on 1 December. linked to the Zeppelin Observatory in New Ålesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e979	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that there is important Norwegian infrastructure at Svalbard, especially in the New Ålesund and at the Zeppelin Observatory. When I deal with this matter many times, it is because despite some kind answers from the Council of State Djupedal in ours, I experience through the knowledge and insight that I have, for example. in New Ålesund, there is some growth in research days, but it is largely foreign research day – Germans in the marine laboratory – and it is very difficult, at least for me as a staging representative, to see some trace of systematic Norwegian investment to build up the station. What I think is worse is that the Zeppelin Observatory, which is unique, according to my knowledge, does not have the means to, for example. a couple of three scholarship positions to actually analyse the vital data that you have. I would encourage the Council of State to look at how the Zeppelin Observatory can be exploited, initially to get people who can analyze data, and next time to get people who can collect even more data and analyse them. But my experience after taking this up with repeated state councils is that it seems to be a long way from the goodwill of state councils to what happens in practice. My appeal is that we now actively do something about the Zeppelin Observatory and the reinforcement around it. It's NILU that's the key to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e990	I am grateful for the invitation from the representative of Dørum. I promise I'll take a closer look at it. What is important for Norway and the Government is that we are involved in international cooperation to strengthen climate research. There is no doubt that in the field of climate research, the polar region will be one of the most important areas – both to strengthen our international community in research, and to acquire the knowledge we actually need to respond appropriately to actions related to climate change. So this case will also be affected, as I mentioned, when the Government presents the Northern Region Strategy on 1 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e999	I could have been polemic on the basis of questions to the Council of State Djupedal in ours and on the basis of a lot of other things, but I do not choose to be that since I ask the question to another Council of State. I choose to take on seriously the answer I get now. I have to say it that way that I think it's good that the government is happy to, for example. leading American and British politicians go to the New Ålesund, and they get acquainted with the impressive infrastructure that's there. I also think it is good for the Prime Minister to hold a Prime Minister's meeting at Nordic level in Ny-Ålesund. But when you do that, and when, in addition, the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that as many American politicians as possible now have to come to New Zealand to simply see how to measure the planet's health status, especially on the climate side, it obliges the Government. That commitment is to systematically increase the Norwegian research day in New Ålesund, as it will then deliver on large-scale documents, policy documents and the Research Council. But the most important and practical thing right now is to make sure that the Zeppelin Observatory gets to analyze the data they have. Then you need people and money. I choose – let's say – this extensive hand and constructive call to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment that I am now coming with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1006	That's how climate issues are definitely going to be focused both nationally and internationally in a completely different way from what we've seen in the past. I, as the representative is briefed on, have just returned from a major conference on climate issues in Nairobi. It is clear that the need for research and the need to coordinate the evidence available in different countries is increasing. It is absolutely necessary that Norway not only increase its research efforts but also ensure that we can contribute to the coordination of different results. There is no doubt, as the representative Dørum said, that the north is in a special position for us, because there is much of the temperature of climate change that can actually be measured. Therefore, it is important that we participate in both national and international research projects on climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1019	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘20. In November of this year, Statnett introduced a separate market area for power in Central Norway. From now on, electricity customers in this part of the country will have to pay more for the power than elsewhere in the country. In February this year, the State Council in Stortinget said that it would not be acceptable to use a specific price range as an instrument to provide enough electricity. He has also promised his own crisis plan for power in Middle Norway early this autumn. Does the Council of State take self-criticism that both of these promises are broken, and when will the Council of State present the plan of crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1028	Let me first say that the Council of State will present an action plan for Central Norway. I can also assure the representative Børge Brende that the government has a goal that the power prices in Norway should not be unacceptable and that large price differences between different parts of the country should not occur over longer periods. Therefore, the government has also spent a lot of time and has had a lot of attention on the power situation in central Norway, and we are working intensively to find good measures for this area. Nevertheless, the introduction of a separate price range for Mid Norway is an important and necessary instrument due to the low levels in the region’s warehouses. I therefore believe that Statnett believes that the introduction of a price range is the most appropriate instrument in today's situation. The price range will facilitate good resource disposal and maximum imports of power into the region. The introduction of price ranges will lead to a reduced likelihood of a power shortage situation. In this context, it is also suggested that price ranges should always be introduced before any other measures are put into effect, as the previous government also outlined to the Stortinget and to which the Stortinget agreed, inter alia. because the impact of other measures can be greatly reduced if the import capacity is not used at the same time as the maximum. These are the reasons I have given to Stortinget in the past. Different pricing ranges are not new. Norway is usually divided into two price ranges, north and south of Dovre. When Statnett now creates a new price range, it means that we get three price ranges: South Norway, Middle Norway and North Norway. Mid Norway has been divided into its own price range several times before when the power situation has required it. On the occasions this has been done earlier, it has not led to significant higher prices in central Norway than in the rest of the country. At the same time, I have a high priority to implement measures to ensure a robust power supply in Central Norway also in the longer term, through increased generation and network capacity. This is to be an important part of the action plan for Middle Norway, which I am working on. I would also like to make it clear that a price range is not the instrument to ensure security of supply and access to power to Middle Norway in the long term. The government is following developments closely in the future. This applies not only to developments in the force situation in the area but also to the way in which the introduction of a specific price range will have an impact on consumers in the area. However, it is too early to establish whether there will be large price differences between different parts of the country in winter due to the fact that there are now three price ranges in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1043	Of course, there is a great deal of unrest in Central Norway when it is now seen that the region is established as a separate price range, even though the former Council of State, Eriksen, promised that it was not up to date with higher electricity prices for electricity customers in Central Norway, as stated in the Address Paper on 21 April 2006. But what is the big issue today is that everyone has been waiting for an action plan on how to deal with the power crisis in Central Norway. The Minister for Oil and Energy said in Stortinget on 1 June 2006: ‘I am now working on an action plan as requested, to address the power situation in Central Norway, with a view to bringing forward the action plan early in the autumn.’ Now it's winter. Today, there are two pages in the Address Paper: ‘There is a notified emergency plan.’ Is it the case that the Council of State has kept the Stortinget too fooled, that no action plan is coming, or is he just late?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1057	Let me first say that I understand the turmoil you have in Central Norway in relation to price developments in the future, and it is uncertain how price developments are going to be. The first three days with their own price range have shown that Day 1 actually had one penny lower price than you would have had if Mid Norway was not its own price range. Day 2 and day 3 the price is exactly the same as it would have been if you hadn't had your own price range. So, of course, I can't say what progress will be in the future, but this is at least a preliminary indication of what's going on in this area. As far as the action plan is concerned, it will of course be submitted. And it's taken longer than I said to get the action plan out. As the representative Burnde quite rightly says, I said that I aimed to present it early in the autumn. What has taken time is, among other things, what has taken time. the introduction of long-term measures, the introduction of new production into this area. It is a vital element of such an action plan. The fact that the Government has not presented this action plan, which is their tool for future work, does not, of course, mean that the situation in Central Norway is not being worked intensively with both short-term and long-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1064	Now I got very confused, maybe at a slightly higher level than before. As I said, in this interview with the Council of State over two pages of the Address Paper today, he is dropping the alert emergency plan. It also says: ‘Controversially, it will also be when the Minister of Oil and Energy now warns that he chooses so far to abandon the plans to present a comprehensive crisis plan for the Middle Norway power crisis.’ ‘No, this is not controversial’, says the Council of State. But now I perceived the Council of State so that he does not go beyond his promise to the Stortinget on 1 June 2006 that an action plan was to be issued early in the autumn. When will this action plan come? Will the Stortinge get it presented? Will there be an action plan to address all these issues? I think it's absolutely necessary that this be put in place now, because there's a very high degree of uncertainty associated with a government council that says you're not going to have your own price range, and then it's going to be your own price range, which says that there's an action plan early in the fall, and then it's not coming because it's late, and now it's said it's not coming at all. When will the action plan come? Is it coming before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1076	First of all. The debate on their own price range in central Norway has been very much linked to the situation next harvest, when the Worm Lange is in operation. I have never said that my own price range is out of date in this area. What I've said is that it's not appropriate to use very high prices in this area as a tool to ensure that you get enough power in this area. Other measures must also be taken. As I have now said, and which I have answered in relation to written questions: My price range is one of the tools that Statnet is authorised to use. So point 2. There will be a separate action plan. The representative Børge Brende has a long experience from Stortinget and knows that the documents presented by the Government to the Stortinget are either a staging message, an odelstningsproposition or a staging proposition. An action plan is the Government’s future work tool. And of course, the fact that that plan is not presented does not mean, as I say, that it is not working on this. It works intensely. The action plan will come. It didn't come early in the harvest, and I'm sorry. But as I said, it has taken longer than I thought, to get in place, among other things. the long-term measures and they are an important element of such an action plan. The action plan will be presented with long-term and short-term measures, and the Government is working intensively to avoid getting into a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1087	This question, from the representative of Vera Lyskleat to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1090	«It is now exactly one year since I in this room reported my concern about the wild salmon population in Norwegian salmon rivers. The anxiety has not diminished during this year, and we do not have time to take any rest cuts in this case. That Minister for Fisheries then informed in his reply that the regulation to impose technical requirements on farms, the NYTEK Regulation, would enter into force on 1 January 2006. How is it now working concretely to follow up this regulation and the zero vision against escape?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1097	Escape remains one of the major challenges facing Norwegian farming. To date, the number of escapes is regrettably at the same level as last year's. Work is done in many fields to get the escape numbers down, for example. by identifying causes, research and knowledge-building, regulatory improvements and controls. The new Commission for the Escape of Farmed Fish, established in July, has already addressed several of the latest escape cases. In addition, the regions of the Directorate of Fisheries carry out a rapid inspection to clarify the root cause and to assess whether farms have behaved sufficiently well. In parallel with it, the main organisation of the farming industry, FHL Aquaculture, has established its own escape selection to explore how action and response to escape can be improved. An important tool for reducing the number of escaped farmed fish is the NYTEK Regulation. After the year-end, there was still a significant number of farms that did not have the technical approval papers in order, certificates of proficiency for old plants and certificates of product for newer plants. Consequently, the fisheries management launched an exceptional control offensive, the aim of which was to reduce the risk of escape in the farming industry as soon as possible. A total of 55 non-compliances with the NYTEK regulations were detected, which have been corrected. In addition to technical checks and audit checks in cooperation with the Food Authority, the Directorate for Fisheries has carried out its own unannounced control offensives in all regions. The focus area has been escape and factors affecting the risk of escape. In total, 33 pst. by all active sites for salmon, rainbow trout and cod are controlled during 2006. In addition, these controls include all salmonid sites within the national salmon fjords. The work of the Fisheries Directorate’s Action Plan on Spacey Farming Fish – ‘Vision Zero Escape’ – is of high priority. The plan consists of 30 investigative and action points to be carried out by the end of next year. The action plan includes work on better regulation and management tools, more targeted and risk-based control efforts and revision of the NYTEK standard. I will end by informing you that the Directorate of Fisheries has been in active dialogue with the Riksadvokat and Ecokrim all year long in order to contribute to the effectiveness of responses and criminal prosecution of infringements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1112	I would like to thank you for the answer, and have the following follow-up questions: Breeding is a very important coastal industry, and a change of attitude is necessary in terms of industry escape. The vast majority of breeders act seriously, but a minority do not. More than three million salmon have escaped from different plants in the last five to six years. As long as the escape takes place without the source being known, almost the only means we have, in addition to moving facilities on land, marking the salmon, is either a biological detection of e.g. the feed in the stomach of the fish. Is this the measure in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1117	Just because it is so important to have a solid attitude to the danger of escape, we are happy that, in addition to the measures we put in, the FHL farm is putting down its own sample, and as an organisation they are busy working to prevent the escape of salmon. With regard to the possibility of tracking and the way in which it is to be made technologically, experts have to deal with it, but it is one of the elements that are now being worked on to further strengthen efforts to identify escaped fish from facilities where escape may not have been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1124	My last follow-up question: we are very many who are concerned about development. As well as Norway’s Hunters and Fishery Associations as many coastal communities, there is a strong response to the fact that no action is taken as soon as possible. It cannot be accepted that Norwegian nature, communities, the tourism industry and sports fishermen are to pay the price of what is perceived as environmental crime. The further existence of the Villax is not only threatened by vacated farmed salmon, but also by river regulation, acidification, illegal fishing and Gyrodactylus salaris. Is there any way to criminalise the escape of farmed salmon, as some now call for if measures taken are not followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1129	When escape is detected, the usual procedure is to assess what is the basis for it. In those cases where there is negligence or where there is evidence that the responsibility for the escape rests on the breeder, it is already possible to make notifications and regular studies of Ecocrim. So that possibility is there. What, however, provides the greatest results for the future, together with the industry, is to actively use the tools we have both through the zero vision and the reduced Commission to examine some escapes and to propose changes to measures and legislation to strengthen the possibility of avoiding escape in the future. It will probably be the most important means of achieving our common objective of reducing the number of escapes from Norwegian farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1141	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In order to strengthen road safety efforts, the Bondevik II administration launched a testing scheme for the construction of mid-driving works on two- and three-field roads. During the period 2002–2005 it was built approximately. 70 km of adrift along existing roads. In the 2007 draft budget of the Stoltenberg government, there are only 9 km of pitfalls. This is a follow-up of 38 pst. for the objectives of the 2006-2009 action programme. What will the Council of State do to restore commitment to the important road safety measure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1150	In the State Road Service’s 2006-2009 action programme, approximately 50 km of roadside mid-haul works are planned on the two- and three-field roads. Due to large bonds, a substantial part of the 2007 investment frame must be used to ensure the rational operation of the construction of all projects under way. This will also be the situation in 2008. As a result, the planned investment is the so-called smaller investment measures, including: construction of pitfalls, most strongly during the last part of the four-year period. The government's objective is to follow up its programme of action by the State Road Agency for the period 2006-2009. I therefore argued that during this period some 50 km of pitfalls will be built on the existing two- and three-field roads. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is important to think about health in order to reduce the number of traffic accidents. Although the meeting doors are most frequent on the most traffic-performing part of the road network, they also occur on other parts of the road network. It is therefore necessary to implement different types of measures on the road network, depending on road width and traffic volume. The simplest measure currently under test is to increase the gap between the midlines and to freeze the asphalt, resulting in a vibrating effect. On roads that are wider and have more traffic, the construction of physical pitfalls is an important measure. On the most busy part of the road network, the construction of four-field roads is an effective response to both meeting and departure accidents. Page 10-15 pst. the meeting openings are related to e.g. It is also important that road users take responsibility for the lack of sleep on the part of the driver. The State Road Service launched a new campaign with "Stop and Sleep" information in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1159	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have been informed that of those who were killed in road accidents in the years 1999-2000, 31 p.m. killed in meeting accidents. The number that I got from SINTEF shows that in four mid-distance sections with a total length of 15 km, there has not been a single traffic accident involving killed or severely damaged road users. The meeting accidents have completely disappeared. Does the Minister for Transport agree that the concept of zero vision is given a strange sound when you do not have a faster pace of development of a mint than the Stoltenberg government is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1164	Norway is one of the most advanced countries in Europe and the world in traffic security. Together with Sweden, we control this work after the zero vision. England, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway are the four best placed countries. That doesn't mean we're going to lean back, but the reason why we're doing so well is not that we have so much pitfalls. It's that we've put a lot of effort into road safety. It is not just a new path, it is not just a mid-track and it is a physical partition that prevents accidents. There is a wide range of measures. There is staggering work in kindergarten and school, there is better traffic training, it is the ‘Stop and sleep’ campaign, but not least the simple use of seat belts and the use of reflexes to prevent pedestrian accidents. All this and many, many more measures are the ones that have closed as much as we have, and that is the width of measures that should make us go further down on death statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1173	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with a lot of what she says there, but now the theme was a mint. The new Guidebook 017 ‘Road and street design’ proposes the construction of ad-hoc and main roads with a speed limit of more than 80 km/h when the daily traffic on roads is more than 8000 vehicles – again based on the zero vision in the field of road safety. Is this proposal something the Council of State wants to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1178	In the work we do on road safety, we must, as I said in my previous answer, look at a wide range of measures. I have said in the budget for the current year how important it is that we can at least get two-field roads, so that there is passage. Unfortunately, on many high roads we still do not have two roads. As I said, we have to look at the whole width. What is contained in the manual that we should have middle parts on the road with more than 8 000 vehicles per year is at least one piece ahead, to say the least, in relation to today's situation. The measures we take in other areas of road safety must be weighed up, and I will listen carefully to the advice I receive from the professional services before deciding on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1189	‘Work on the extension of E134 Haukeli tunnels has taken place over too long and is mentioned in the State budget for both 2006 and 2007. This summer, it turned out that the cost would be 350 million. SEK, 150 million. kr more than estimated. The reason is that other work is included in the tenders. Governments have announced a new bidding round based on actual missions and have promised a new case to Stortinget. The “Vieen and we” on 16 November shows that the state road system will now cut 150 million. kr in the scope of work. Will the Council of State clean up this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1196	The State Road Service has re-examined the project in order to reduce the scope of work compared to what was incorporated in the bidding competition that was conducted and cancelled earlier this year. Work is now primarily required to increase the clear height to 4.2 metres in all tunnels that do not meet this requirement, between the Telemark boundary and Odda. The total cost of these works and beyond the actions previously carried out in other tunnels on the project is currently estimated at approximately 200 million. kr. This is in accordance with the Presidential Decree of St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 and for 2006-2007. New competitive base is being developed and will be ready for deployment during the current year, so that work can start in the spring of 2007. This work will take the final position of the scope of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1205	Thanks for the answer, which confirms that it has taken a very long time to complete a height improvement. This is then mentioned by the head of the Vegvesen Development Department in the same newspaper that I referred to: ‘We no longer have room for the security measures that we included in the original supply base. But we have to stick to what is agreed, and expect to re-examine the assignment before Christmas this year." Is it not true that the Road Service too must stick to what has been decided upon? It actually gets a little worse when you also see that this is mentioned in the Vegvesen's own newspaper, «Veien und vi», under the heading «Unchanged tunnel width on E134 over Haukeli». There have never been questions about width expansion, but there has been talk of raising the height to 4.20 meters. I hope we can now do this without further delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1215	I can confirm that it is, of course, so that the State Road Service, which carries out its work on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, who again carries it out on behalf of the Storting, will listen carefully to what the Storing says, and carry out the mission in line with the framework laid down here. It's indisputable. If not, of course, I will return to Stortinget. You may find that there are misguided things that cause you to have to go back to Stortinget. In this case, it is about adapting the project according to the tutorials that have been created, and it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1220	It is clear that the mission was already in spring 2005, when the case of increased tunnel height was dealt with on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals. It was even a former representative of the Central Party who was the rapporteur on the matter. The then Transport Committee was gathered in its view that elevation expansion, and nothing else, was necessary. But it's actually questionable about the need, because you've measured in different ways and with different results. There is also doubt about the method of elevation expansion, raising the roof of the tunnel, because it is very costly. On 26 September, the Council of State replied that it would also lower the roadway, which would cost approx. one tenth of a price tag of 200 million. kr, will be assessed. Can the Council confirm that this will be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1227	Yes, it is also part of the assessment. As can be seen, a part of the electrical system should in any case be changed. I don't know what the final conclusions will be, and whether it'll be important to choose one thing or another. But the leads that I gave, and that I have black black on before, are firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1236	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘I, the undersigned, am aware that the Directorate of Road assesses a regulatory change on requirements for 3 mm depth of model on heavier vehicles during the winter season against the one of the day, in order to carry out checks to a greater extent than can be done by reason of, for example: the diligence provisions of the Road Traffic Act and the Code of Use. Does the Council of State have the right to derogate from 3 months of consultation in order to ensure immediate authorisation, if necessary of a temporary nature, for requirements of 3 mm where it is clearly required by national needs?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1245	I am busy with heavy running gear – Norwegian as well as foreign – being sufficiently protected to run on Norwegian winter roads. A range of actions, including: comprehensive control and information activities will be used to ensure that running gear meets the requirements of the Norwegian legislation. As indicated in the 2007 budget proposal, one new measure could be to impose a minimum pattern depth of 3 mm in the winter half-year on heavy-duty tyres. The road body must now assess the different consequences of such a requirement. If the Vegvesen concludes that a requirement of 3 mm pattern depth should be introduced, I will address the need for general hearing nationally and in the EEA territory and the time limits for any such hearing. At present, nationally shorter than three months, and it will be assessed, are subject to special conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1254	I thank you for your answer. Many are concerned about the constant outbounds and accidents with heavy vehicles on Norwegian winter roads, and of course it also worries us as transport politicians. Does the Council of State believe that the legislation applicable to heavy goods vehicles today is satisfactory for Norwegian conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1259	There is no doubt that we especially in the start-up of the winter season, but also beyond the winter, have too many events with heavy running clothes, because they are too badly shone. It's not just foreign driving; it's important for me to stress that the statistics we have show that a lot of these vehicles are Norwegian. But from the part of foreign vehicles, it's clear that there's a high percentage of them left that's too bad. This is, of course, the background for us to consider a variety of measures. We've strengthened the control system, and we're concentrating controls better. Overall, we have a regular assessment of interventions, and this is one of the measures we are now considering. One should not spend a very long time doing this, so I hope that we will get this matter decided fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1264	Then I don't have any more follow-up questions. I see the answer as positive, and the Council of State is willing to clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1273	This question, from the representative Ib Thomsen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1276	‘It appears from Rome’s magazine on 13 November this year that students and parents in Rome are afraid of a school bus accident, but the county community is allowing for bulky school buses. Both the bus companies and Safety Traffic are very skeptical to bulky school buses. It feels like a chaotic – ‘a student was pinched in the door, and the bus driver shouts: pull together, pull together’. Parents are afraid of what might happen, for example: an outing. What will the Council of State do to avoid serious accidents involving school buses in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1283	The representative Thomsen addresses a topic that has been debated several times in Stortinget recently. In Question Time on 26 April, the representative of Greece asked a similar question, and as late as 24 October, the Stortinget handled a Document No. 8-proposals where the safety of school-children's carriage by bus was a theme. Both the Minister of Knowledge and I have explained in these contexts that the transport of school pupils by bus is currently regulated by three different sets of rules. According to the training law, school elephants are entitled to brush to the school according to certain criteria. The Road Traffic Act and the Professional Transport Act state that the carriage shall be carried out by means of a means of transport which satisfy the applicable safety requirements carried out by a carrier who satisfies the requirements applicable to the carriage of passengers for consideration. It is the county that is responsible for the school transport, and it is currently covered by the free income of the county municipalities, including transfers from the state through the income system. This means, in practice, that the individual county has great freedom to design the supply. This freedom to adapt supply to local conditions also makes active use of county municipalities, so that transport is currently carried out as own school guides, but also often as an integral part of the ordinary collective service. By way of treatment of the document referred to above, No. The 8-proposal confirmed to the Stortinget that the transport of school elephants is and will be a municipal responsibility. I interpret this quite clearly as not wanting the state to regulate unnecessarily, but that local people themselves may have the freedom to determine how the services are designed. Occurrence statistics and a special study carried out by SINTEF in 1998 show that primary school children are badly injured in situations where they are bus passengers and that the damage that occurs is not serious. The serious damage to this group of road users occurs in situations where children are either entering or leaving the bus, or in cases where they go or cycle to and from the school. Therefore, I have a clear view that in order to approach the zero vision, which is about avoiding death or life-long damage, we must continue to give priority to the improvement of road-hazardous schools and the organisation of safe off- and on-board bus services in the vicinity of the schools. This will give schoolchildren more security for the money than if a user uses the money to ensure that those who already have a relatively safe transport by bus. Such a situation as mentioned in the question from the representative Thomsen, where students have to press together to make room for everyone, is not necessarily in line with the current legislation. All buses used in Norway have limits on the number of passengers they can carry – this applies to both seating and standing passengers. These are rules which, of course, also apply when there are schoolchildren who are being transported, and the police are responsible for enforcing them. The government has noticed that the Church, Exploration and Research Committee through the management of Document No. 8:84 for 2005-2006 in the comment of a co-consultant asks for an assessment of the need for changes and clarifications in road traffic legislation, possibly a new regulation of the training law – this in order to ensure that the elephants have a defensive school pillow. I want to evaluate the matter in cooperation with the other ministers involved and report back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. As a first step in this regard, I am now going to start a work on updating the study carried out by SINTEF in 1998, in order to gain further insight into the use of standing places in school-children's transport, leading to an increase in the risk of safety, and to obtain a better picture of the costs of possibly prohibiting the use of standing places in school-children's transport in the basement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1300	I want to thank you for the answer, and I could read between the lines that it was a positive answer. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the Progress Party and the Left have previously brought this matter up in Stortinget and not got the big breakthrough. But it's a problem we get presented weekly from parents who are concerned about their children, and then the Council of State must agree that we all have to take responsibility – the county council, the city council and not least the council of state – in order to avoid accidents in the future. It has been suggested in some places that seat belts should be used on buses. Can the Council of State say anything about it also in relation to the safety of buses?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1307	It is all true that in some buses there is a requirement for a seat belt today. I myself have been in charge of our bus passengers and have been in charge of attaching the restraint belt. At the same time, there is no ban on having parking spaces on buses today, and there will be serious consequences if Stortinget wants one to go in the direction that one should ban parking spaces on buses. But security is important, and everything is related to everything. Perhaps one of the most important things we can do is give the county councils such a good financial framework that they can prioritise this. We know that the economic framework presses the county councils in their agreements with the transport companies. Therefore, I would remind the representative that everything is related to everything, and cut free funds for the municipal sector is badly linked to the wish that one should invest better in road safety for school pupils.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1314	I think it's dramatic to gamble and put our children up against budget money. I understand the parents when they're worried. I understand the schoolchildren when they're afraid of their bus tour. A few weeks ago, a school bus accident occurred in Kristiansand. There were only 35 students on the school bus, and five were injured. Had the bus been full, it would have been full in the standing places of the people who were standing, we might have got a whole different number of injured. Can we measure this against money?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1321	A life, whether it's a child or an adult, can never be measured against money. At the same time, not least those in this room know that the frames given here in the Storting to different areas will show that in what good offers can be made to the inhabitants. For this reason, this government is investing in the local economy, so that we can both get better schools and get the safe school roads better. I heard the last speaker in Sogndal, who said that with the budget of this government the municipality was 2.5 million. kr more on the road. If all the municipalities do, we will have a further NOK 1 billion to ensure that the schools and others are safe. The fact that the county councils had more of a framework from the previous government, and that the Progress Party would cut into the framework of the free funds for the municipalities and municipalities, will clearly have an impact on, among other things. the municipalities and county councils have to provide students with a safe schoolway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1330	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘The online newspaper has earned a professor of mathematics at the University of Oslo Tom Lindstrøm to make a single ‘surface dive’ of the level of mathematics in the 6th and 7th grade. His conclusion is that the level has fallen dramatically from the 1960s to the present day. Such signals are alarming even if they are not scientifically based and should be taken seriously. Will the Council of State initiate studies to illustrate the degree to which Norwegian school has been involved in a glide flight with regard to the requirements of basic mathematics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1339	Let me first say that good knowledge of mathematics is important. As Gundersen's representative points out, there are challenges to mathematics in Norwegian education, and this has been visible for a long time. There is reason for concern that the problem appears to be more serious in Norway than in most other countries with which we normally compare. The question of gliding in basic knowledge is based on a look-up in the Nettavisen, where Professor Tom Lindstrøm of the University of Oslo has looked at the content of textbooks in mathematics for the sixth and seventh stages from the 1960s to 1999. He thinks the level of difficulty has fallen sharply. The question of initiating research is not without a doubt easy to answer precisely, because there is little research-based knowledge that enables us to really compare mathematics skills in the 1960s and today. In addition, mathematics curricula have gained more subjects, and more emphasis has been placed on application and dissemination. Therefore, starting studies on this will hardly provide new and useful knowledge for investing in mathematics in particular and in real science in general. We know a lot about the lack of knowledge in mathematics today, both through national and international studies. The results in mathematics from, among others: PISA and TIMSS point out that Norwegian teachers encounter less students with expectations of good performance. The so-called surface dive to which Gundersen's representative refers is a confirmation of something we already know. Therefore, real science in general and mathematics is, in particular, an area of initiative for the Government. Let me point to some central approaches that have been taken to enhance the level of mathematics in primary school. The promise of knowledge introduces a new curriculum in mathematics with clear objectives of competence related to basic knowledge of the subject. In the work on the curriculum, professionals from central mathematical environments participated. Being able to count is introduced as a basic skill in all subjects. Monitoring tests are introduced in the calculation and numerical understanding of this school year. The number of hours in pediatric mathematics has increased in recent years. The National Centre for Mathematics in Training is tasked with developing good practices and disseminating knowledge about them. On 7 June this year, I presented the strategy ‘A common challenge for the real world’. It shall be a tool for all those involved in strengthening mathematics, science and technology in Norway, both in the public and private sectors. The strategy identifies areas where it should and must be invested and is a further development of previous initiatives. Among other things, I have taken the initiative of a national forum for real science, involving organisations, businesses and state councils. The most important factor in learning is the competence of teachers. The government transferred 375 million in the year. to the school owners of competence development measures and proposes the same in the 2007 budget. The initiative has mathematics as one of the priority subjects, and the activity report for 2005 shows that mathematics has had a high priority. There are several light points. Let me mention that mathematics and natural sciences are among the most sought after subjects for immersion in teacher education. As mentioned, we already have a broad knowledge of the situation in mathematics through both national and international studies. Now we need, first of all, to continue our efforts to strengthen basic mathematics education. So I don't see the need to start further studies on lower levels of mathematics in primary school related to textbooks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1358	I think it's a little sad that you don't find reason to follow up on this with a little bit more scientifically based studies. There's a lot going on through the Knowledge Lift, but the surface dive that the professor conducted is done on the new textbooks, and investigating an actual level drop from the past is very important. I also record the promotion of national real-time vocational strategies and such things. What the new government has done there is actually lowering some demands, among other things. the requirement that those who are required to be taught in mathematics must be trained in real science. So I'm not particularly impressed with what the government is doing. When you get such signals that the level in primary school in Norway is too low – and they also match the many students who have been out and who come back, say – I will at least ask the Minister of Knowledge to reconsider the position that you will not go deeper into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1365	Let me first correct a manifest misunderstanding, because we have made no changes to teacher training, neither as regards admission requirements for general teacher training nor as regards which subjects you can teach. Those demands have been placed there. What I've been talking about is that you need to make sure that you can only teach the subjects you've been in, as opposed to the system you've been in today's world for many years. It's also one of the fields where we're sharpening the requirements and not the opposite. The fact that real-time competence among Norwegian teachers and students is not good enough is a common recognition that many have made. So we're building on a lot of knowledge about this. Comparing the textbooks from the 1960s with today's, doesn't give us any new knowledge but that we'll probably just establish that there's been a downward trend in quality and knowledge related to real science, and mathematics in particular. This is what we're trying to do on the broad front. Fortunately, we now see some positive results. Higher requirements for general teacher training mean that more people now have a deeper knowledge. But let me end by saying that we do not approve textbooks either. We define curricula, but the textbooks as such are not the ones that approve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1374	Yes, I am aware of that too, but we must be able to discuss the level. It is important to demand that the level be maintained in relation to the skills we will meet in future societies. With regard to the content of the national real-life strategy, it may be that the misunderstanding is based on the reference point. In relation to the promise of knowledge promoted by the previous government, there is a weakening of some demands, among others. in point C. 7, about the requirement of good and relevant competence for those who are required to be taught in the real subjects of primary school. That is quite demonstrative. There are also a few other reductions in requirements in relation to national tests and such things. But what's really important again is to focus on the fact that the level can't be lowered. We all see that in real science today you experience a completely different working day than what you did before. You have calculators and computers that seem to make you really don't have to understand mathematics. It's quite dangerous, because if you want to be able to use those tools rationally, you also have to understand the logic and the context of mathematics. And you should be on guard against that kind of level decrease. Once again, I would recommend to the Minister of Knowledge to go deeper into the problem that has been revealed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1385	We've gone deep into this, and the fall in quality in real science has happened over many decades. Unfortunately, we see the stronger in Norway than in many other countries, but this is a European trend. Therefore, many countries are now looking for ways to increase their real-time skills in school, how our students should perform better. We're busy with that. We haven't reunited on any requirements in terms of mathematics, rather the opposite, we've strengthened the requirements, we've had common bets, and I'm glad that the opposition in Stortinget also agrees on such a bet, because that's what we need. Deep dives in textbooks won't give us any new knowledge about this. We know that we need a wide range of bets, and we're already strengthening mathematics in the framework plan for kindergarten, as mathematics is now being introduced. Dimension, space and number are part of the framework plan of our government. We've strengthened this field throughout the elementary school cycle. We are now also in dialogue with the Education Association and others about how we can move on and ensure that you have the skills in the subjects you teach in primary school, as opposed to what may be the case today. I believe that both the opposition and the position in this case, the heart agrees that this is a priority area, and we will come back with new measures in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1398	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The official pay queue in Norway is about 2 700 persons. According to the Professional Association of Criminal Services, the real figures are approx. 6 000 persons in pay queues. Will the Council of State explain the difference between the official queue and the real one?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1407	I'd like to. The government believes that the main challenge for criminal justice is to abolish the pay queue and further develop the quality of criminal enforcement. The situation with restitution queues is unsustainable and, therefore, the Government has presented a concrete plan, ‘Responsive action against restitution queues and for better content in restitution’, in order to close the queue by 2009, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. This plan provides a broad explanation of how the nesting queue is defined. The current definition of pay queues is based on the initiation of all types of criminal reactions within two months of the receipt of the judicial judgment by the Criminal Service, unless a suspension has been granted by the police. Thus, there are several groups of convictions and fines that fall outside the scope defined as pay queue. These are the convictions that have been granted acquittal from the police on their own application and the convictions that the police have received less than two months ago. The convictions requested by the police for not meeting for acquittal also do not count in the queue, as they are assumed to start the criminal proceedings immediately after arrest. I have to make it clear that at the moment there are three settlement cows in criminal custody. In addition to the line for unconditional imprisonment, we have cows for fines and for community punishment. The biggest challenge is, of course, the queue for unconditional imprisonment, and this is the one that is usually referred to when you talk about the reconciliation queue. It's also the same definition that the previous government used; we haven't changed it. The queue for unconditional imprisonment was 2,514 judges at the end of September. A further 766 judges were received less than two months ago. 419 judges were granted acquittal from the police, and 565 sentences were requested by the police for not meeting up for acquittal. These are not included in the queue, as they are normally immediately to be accommodated in the event of apprehension. The total number of juridical judges for unconditional imprisonment is about 4,260. At the same time, the number of fines in pay queues was 2,606. Moreover, the number of fines in the queue does not give a proper picture of the corresponding prison capacity, because about 75 pst. the cases lapse upon payment close to the date of the call — an effective tender means in other words. It is also a minor line for community sentences, which fortunately go downhill. It was at 287 judges at the end of September. As with unconditional prison sentences, new cases and sentences are also called for with acquittals for fines and community sentences. It is otherwise nice to be able to inform Storting today that the reconciliation queue is on its way down. After all, it has to be the most important thing, no matter what definition we use. The queue for unconditional imprisonment was 2,737 judges when the flight deck was presented in spring. It sank as mentioned at the end of September and is now in a somewhat more than 2,300 judges. I assume that the Bureau's Professional Association when they talk about real paychecks, actually means everyone who's actually going in to get their sentence executed. I am open to a debate about how we should define reconciliation queues in the future. Historically, the definition of queues has been changed on several occasions. The definition used today has been used since 1999. I think this is a discussion we should take when the reconciliation queues according to today's definition have been removed, and that the main purpose of the political work must actually be to get the queues down, a work we now see of results. There will also be a good opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss issues related to pay queues in the future. The government is in the process of completing the legislative proposal to follow up the actions we have put into the budget in relation to the recovery plan in these days. This proposition, together with the concrete budgetary measures now proposed, which will involve the establishment of more than 300 prison sites during the year and next year, will include a broad review and discussion of the challenge of settlement queues and measures undertaken by the Government, which do not require legislative change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1433	I thank you for your answer. That was a very good answer, it was full, okay and interesting. But it's clear that for the public and all those who work in these different floors, it seems confusing that there are three different cows in the court system. It kind of doesn't give a proper picture of it when the wanted people aren't in these queues, nor do those who have been granted compensation, and those who haven't met for atonement. Then the queues won't be completely real. But I noticed that the Council of State agreed that the real figure was 4,260 for judges on unconditional prison sentences, as well as the number of community sentences. I think it's good that the Council of State will look at this system and take up the discussion to change it. When will the Committee or the Stortinget be presented with this so that we can have a uniform counting system in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1440	The Committee and the European Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss this when discussing the legislative measures to be taken in relation to cows that will be presented in the near future, so that there is always a chance to do so. But I would warn against creating a very big debate out of this, because we do not, to put it bluntly, disagree that we have these kinds of cows. Putting people who have been accepted for absolution, in line, is not so important. What matters to me as Minister of Justice, and what matters to the Government, is that the queues actually go down. That is why we have established more grants – with the support of several in the Grand Duchy, including from the Progress Party – to the Free Environment, so that we can deal with the social penalties. The fact that we now establish more than 300 places – as I realized there was a broad cross-political agreement – that contribute to the downturn of the actual queue, I believe it is the primary one, but I would like to take a debate and I am also open to change the definition to the extent necessary. But I'm very clear on what's the primary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1447	I fully agree with the Council of State that the most important thing must be to bring the queues down. That's exactly where we agree. I thank you again for the answer. It was very good to hear that this is going up to discussion here. But it's a little bit difficult for us politicians when the Federal Bureau of Criminal Affairs comes in with one number and the department comes in with another, and then the third number in the press confuses. So I hope the Council of State understands that as politicians we should have a discussion about this, so that we agree on what kind of numbers we should have in our documents in the future. When, for example: are hearings, we get one number from one party and another from another.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1454	Thank you for your positive feedback. I hope that this will contribute to a clarification. But it's important that the definition of reconciliation queue is also so that we know what kind of needs we have at all times. Insofar as a pregnant woman has been suspended from her sentence, it is not possible to place her in a reconciliation queue, for then we do not need room for her until she goes in and zone. So there's a little bit more practical considerations around it. But I think it's very egalitarian that this is being asked, because we want a political debate around the atoning cows. This is one of the most important bet areas for the Government, so it's important that we get clarity about it. I would also like to say that for the Bureau of Criminal Affairs, these are not unknown issues. This has been public. It's important for the government that we have full publicity around the numbers and these three types of cows. It's just reading our budget proposal. There is an explanation attached, among other things. to the social punitives. There's no attempt on our part to hide it, rather on the contrary. We believe that we're actually doing our job here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1467	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative André Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1470	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘NRK Focus dedicated on 14 November the programme to the investigation of the ‘Pocket Man’, which has probably abused more than 100 children sexually. The programme recognises from the police that lack of investigation and evidence can explain why the offender is still free. In concrete terms, it was stated that child questioning is so resource-intensive that you refuse to initiate the process. In addition, the lack of competence at local level is not always present. Does the Council of State agree that this is a serious threat to the legal security of children in this country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1479	I have no problem seeing that any unresolved case in which children are victims represents a threat to their legal certainty. There is also a background for the Government to choose to give priority to this area — to clarify more of this crime and also to improve its ability to address these issues. One assault on children is one too many. The Government has therefore stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that action against violence and abuse, in particular against children, should be a priority area of action. However, the prosecution authority is responsible for investigating crime. It's not politically driven, as the questioner knows well. The fact that the prosecution authority also sees child abuse as a serious form of crime has been clearly stated in its directives. I also want to address the matter asked by the representative. As far as the history of the so-called Lommeman case is concerned, the national attorney informs that Kripos has already paid attention to criminal matters through the police journal in September 2003. On 14 October of the same year, the national lawyer received a proposal from Kripos on centralised investigations of the cases in question and decided that same day to centralise investigations under the direction of the police chief in Follo — it was back in 2003 under a different government, but it is the same prosecution authority that has acted. In the decision of the national lawyer, it was assumed that Kripos and the other police districts concerned were willing to release personnel. Unfortunately, the investigation did not give the desired result, and the cases were closed due to a lack of evidence during 2004 and 2005. Because of new circumstances, Follo police districts, in cooperation with Kripos, decided that the investigation should be resumed. The Advocate General decided on 29 June 2006 to continue to centralise investigations under the same management following an enquiry on 28 June of this year by the Chief of Police of Follo. Follo Police District has been allocated additional budget resources from the Police Directorate for this mission. The police have informed us that the investigation is being carried out in full, but that there is currently no evidence of a rapid breakthrough in the cases. The prosecutors, state lawyers and police officers are aware of the responsibility of the prosecutors to carry out centralised investigations in cases that seem to have a connection between each other. Our system is largely based on the fact that Kripos has an alert eye for a case complex that requires coordinated investigation. The present case shows that the system is working, because when new information was received after the cases were closed, there was a proposal to reopen the investigation, which was immediately followed up by the national lawyer, while one police officer would like to accept the assignment. Questions have been raised about the quality of the local investigation was satisfactory at the stage when the cases were dealt with as individual cases and investigated in the district where the criminal offence was committed — reasonably far back in time. The Riksadvokat informs us that he will later assess whether this is a matter that needs to be looked at in a learning perspective. I give that my full support. Furthermore, the National Attorney General informs him that the conduct of child questioning is so demanding that the police and prosecution authorities refuse to initiate such proceedings. At the National Law Office, a wide range of issues involving child questioning are dealt with annually, without this work giving any indication that this is the situation. A wide range of measures have been put in place across the country to increase the research competence in this field, and more governments are to be credited for this work. The priorities available on the part of the national lawyer do not leave room for doubt. In the event of child abuse, it is not possible to do the necessary research, whether or not it is of the opinion that this is a resource-demanding nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1497	I thank you for your answer. Ingelin Killengren says to the Official Journal of Bergen on 15 November: ‘Each district would like to give its own priorities. The idea has been that you are responsible for your own problems within your own district boundaries. In Bergen town you work with things in Bergen city.» The police say that the follow-up to child abuse is very difficult, as the council says. But cooperation is also very poor, and there is a lack of competence locally. The Council of States now mentioned measures to increase their competence locally, both in order to gain more knowledge of child abuse and in order to gain more knowledge of how to cooperate across borders. In addition to what has already been done, what will the Council of State do in relation to strengthening local interaction and empowerment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1509	I think in this kind of case, we're totally dependent on Kripos having a sense of urgency for a case complex that speaks for coordination. I think that the questioner's point of departure actually shows that there's a development, that you're on the right track in relation to this. But I will not fail to say from this pulpit that I believe this is one of the major challenges we face in Police Norway – not only in terms of sexual abuse against children, but also in terms of other types of crime. In the case of sexual abuse of children, I have particular faith in the efforts now being made by the Police College in relation to the continuing training of police personnel. I also believe that the work done by the Government to establish Barna's house – with good support from the opposition in Stortinget – will help us to be more good at handling these kinds of issues as well. These are some of the many measures that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1516	I think it's important that the Council of State deals with Barna's house. The fact that children are met seriously is also important in order not to later take the law into their own hands, which we have actually seen that some young people have done when they have been subjected to abuse. They have perceived that they have not been taken seriously, and they retaliate by contacting older men to commit violence against them. It shows that it is incredibly important for children to be able to tell about their experiences as early as possible, simply because it has a good educational effect on preventing the trauma they may experience afterwards. When we're inside Barna's house, the right has proposed to establish more regional Barna's house in its alternative state budget. We understand that some practical issues are being outlined, but is the Council of State open to considering several regional Barna's houses in addition to the one pilot project to be launched, just to ensure adequate provision of the most possible places in the country, not just one place, as outlined in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1523	Yeah, we are, and we're looking at it. That's what the questioner says, some practical problems that need to be solved, but we're open to it and have a vision that we should get it. I can't promise when, but I'll do what I can. I also think it is important when we set up pilots in the justice sector, that we do not make them so geographically limited that we actually discriminate, which goes beyond the legal certainty of those who fall outside the areas. So we're working on that call, and I hope that in the next year I can present a positive message about it. In terms of coordination between police districts, there is a priority task for the Police Directorate. And an important part of that work has been the development and testing from September 2006 — not so long ago — of a new national intelligence system, Indicia, which is designed to improve the police’s ability to detect cases across multiple police districts. Indicia will provide better support for the investigation of cross-border issues and facilitate the comparison and exchange of information and documents. The intelligence system shall be deployed in all police districts from February 2007. I think it can also be a very important tool in this important fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1541	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1548	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Norwegian Patient Register waiting list for the second tertiary 2006 shows that the waiting time in mental health protection has increased. The average waiting time for children and young people in need of mental health protection is 96 days. This is an alarming development. Can the Council explain the extent of the available capacity of private contract specialists and other private actors in the field of mental health protection and provide an assessment of how private actors can contribute to a reduced waiting time for patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1557	Let me first say that I agree with the representative, Sjøli, that there is too long waiting time for children and young people waiting to get help from the psychiatry. I also stated that in response to a question from the representative in the Questionnaire on 1 March this year. The waiting time for those who have started treatment has increased, as the representative points out, from 86 days in 2nd tertiary 2005 to 96 days at the same time this year. But the number of treatments has increased from 4,572 to 5,002 in the same period. So there are increasing numbers of children and young people. I think it is positive that more children who need it are being treated for mental illness, but I also fully agree that waiting time has to go down. And we have to try to combine both of these things. In this context, the government will strengthen the right to health care for children and young people by introducing a separate waiting guarantee. In December 2005, I set up a working group that was tasked with designing a system of a special waiting guarantee for children and young people. It should also propose strengthening the right to health care for children and young people with drug dependence or mental disorders. The working group gave its unanimous opinion in June 2006 and was at the hearing on 1 November this year. The introduction of a waiting guarantee requires the amendment of the patient rights law, so that the matter will be referred to the Stortinget. We had an extensive debate on the use of contract specialists in Stortinget just a week ago. There I determined that private-practicing contract specialists are a valuable resource and an essential part of the specialist health service. I also said that the scheme should be maintained and continued. The government wants to facilitate a good division of tasks between contract specialists and healthcare companies, and we want to ensure equal availability of specialist health services. I will now launch an investigation and development work to better integrate the contract specialists into the responsibility of regional health businesses. The representative, Sjøli, asks me to explain the extent of the available capacity of contract specialists and other private actors in the field of mental health protection. A patient count from 2000 showed that 4.2 pst. This treatment was provided by contract specialists by children and young people treated in mental health protection. I can quickly agree with the representative that these figures are old. I will therefore consider whether children and young people will be included in a new patient census next year, so that we get a better overview of the offer. I do not think this is satisfactory. The fact is that the department per currently does not have an overview of the available capacity of contract specialists and other private actors in the field of mental health protection. We are therefore working to improve the reporting framework for private contract specialists. In the framework agreement between regional health enterprises and professional associations, the parties include, inter alia: agree that information on the waiting time of contract specialists shall be available to patients. It's not always today at all. The number of annual work in contract practice has remained stable since 1998 and is in 2005 at 173 psychiatrists and 412 psychologists. We don't know how many people are treating children and young people, and how many are treating adults. As I have previously stated in Stortinget, I do not know that there is a great deal going on to establish new offers in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. The number of people today is very modest. The best possible use shall be made of any available capacity of undertakings, including: through good work sharing in and between hospitals. This is the responsibility of regional health businesses. The aim is to make better use of mental health protection capacity in the public sector than we do today, so that children and young people receive faster treatment. I want to add: it's the way the government is busy using the private contract specialists more, insofar as there's room for it, to help children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1580	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that the Council of State wants to make use of any available capacity of private psychologists and psychiatrists. We know that there is free capacity, and it's good that you get it mapped and take advantage of the opportunity that it can give. It makes no sense for children and young people to be in line for months if there is no capacity available to private operators. The right-wing opinion is that mentally ill children and young people must have the same right to treatment in private as those who are ill. I want to ask the Council of State about that. Does she agree that they should have the same right as the sick to receive a treatment offer from private individuals, if it can provide faster help? I have recorded that some millions of adults who are sick of mental illness have been put in the budget for private treatment. Can the same happen to children?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1589	I think the most important thing about children and young people is to take advantage of the entire capacity we have, it's in public, where I think there's something to go on, or, to the extent that it's there, in private. That's what we're now trying to map. So, of course, it's important that we spend money on this. Then it is important, and that is why the Government proposes that we have a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people. I fully agree with Mr Sjöli that it is pointless that children and young people should wait so long. And it doesn't make sense that before they get into that queue, there's a lot of people waiting for months and years. We're not going to have it that way. That's why we're also impatient to treat children and young people a little bit different from what we do in adults, to prevent them from struggling with this for the rest of their lives. So here I'm open to good suggestions on how to do it. But the most important thing from our side, in addition to money and making use of the capacity, is that we get a separate waiting guarantee, in order to cut the waiting time further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1596	I am a little concerned about this with the waiting warranty. In the evening post of January 11, this year, the Council of State stated that it was totally unacceptable for children and adolescents with mental illness to wait three months for treatment. In the past, State Council Halvorsen has stated that all children should receive assistance within one month. I am aware that the Brustad Council in July sent out a consultation proposal proposing that children and young people should be entitled to assessment after 10 days, and that they should be entitled to treatment after 90 days. The Brustad Council therefore proposes a waiting guarantee with a waiting period of as long as she thought in January was completely unacceptable. Then I would like to ask: what has happened on the road, when the Council of State now believes that three months is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1603	I do not believe that there is a goal for children and young people to wait for three months. That's why I've taken the initiative I've taken to reduce waiting time. In that interview in the evening post from earlier this year, I have at least – without having it in front of me – explained that when we talk about 90 days, it is an average. This means that not only are children waiting for three months, but many are also waiting for six months and up to one year after they have entered the queue. If we add what they've been waiting for in advance, it would have been a significant improvement to guarantee everyone within three months, when we know that there are many people waiting a lot longer – as long as we're talking about average numbers. But this gives us ample opportunity to discuss when we bring the matter to Stortinget, and we are presented with our final proposal. But I feel that we have the same goal, and then I think it is also possible to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1612	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Lung patients in Hedmark must wait up to six months to be examined by a specialist. For many, this means lost years of life and lost quality of life. Is the Council of State comfortable with this growing situation, or what will the Council of State do to help keep the waiting time as short as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1621	The incidence of severe pulmonary diseases such as lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, abbreviated COPD, is increasing. Pulmonary diseases are a central theme, natural enough, of Norwegian health policy. The government has therefore recently launched a national strategy for the COLS region. Although the representative Per Roar Bredvold is concerned about the offer in the specialist healthcare service, I would like to start by pointing out how important it is to prevent lung diseases, to diagnose and to initiate treatment in the primary health service. For example, in the COLS strategy, we add: emphasis on the importance of early diagnosis. We will have a good systematics in the study of lung patients, among other things. by means of breath tests with what is known as spirometers, which we believe that all general practitioners or fast doctors should have access to in their offices. One way to meet the challenges of specialist healthcare is to ensure that we have a sufficient number of health professionals with competence in lung medicine, so that we can ensure this growing patient group a sufficient range of services and services of high professional quality. Of course, pulmonary specialists play a central role, both in the prevention, investigation, diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients with lung diseases. The Ministry continuously assesses whether the number of lung specialists has been adapted to current and future needs, and also assesses measures to correct this number. This is done through dialogue with the Directorate for Social and Health, the National Council for Specialist Training of Doctors and the Distribution of Doctors and Regional Health Enterprises. According to national Council figures, there are more than 100 national positions of excellence and 44 positions of education in this speciality. The Medical Association has recently presented a report on lung speciality. This report refers to an initial under-coverage of lung specialists, as pointed out by the representative Bredvold. Increased incidence of pulmonary diseases is explained, but also with increased expected withdrawal from the lung in the years to come. This means that there is a need to train at least 15 new lung specialists each year for the next decade. In response to this challenge, the number of specialty educational positions has increased significantly in recent years, and there is a need for this. These doctors may to some extent meet the expected need for lung specialists, provided that the training capacity is used up to the maximum. The Ministry will consider what we can do to exploit the educational capacity. It may be that we need to look at the ratio between positions of excellence and positions of education, for example, the conditions of specialist recognition and the conditions relating to the responsibilities of regional health enterprises for facilitating effective training courses. These measures will provide a sufficient number of lung specialists at country level, for we need to ensure provision throughout the country. However, the representative of Bredvold refers to long waiting times at the pulmonary specialists in Hedmark. I've noticed that too. In order to ensure a good national, regional and local distribution of medical specialists, we have a statutory medical distribution system. This means that each year the Ministry determines the number of new medical posts, divided between health regions and, where appropriate, between specialities. It is the regional health enterprises, in this case Health East, that are responsible for distributing the jobs within the health region. This shall be done on the basis of the posts and specialities needed in the health region. I am not comfortable with the fact that lung patients, neither in Hedmark nor in other parts of the country, have to wait a long time for an examination by a lung specialist. I will therefore follow developments in the future very closely, both in terms of the number of lung specialists and in terms of the geographical distribution of posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1640	I thank the Council of State for a long and full answer, and I would also like to say a good answer. I am so comfortable with the answer I received from the Council of State. Now, the Council of State doesn't say directly when we're going to be able to achieve the results that need to be, because of course, it takes a while to train the pulmonary specialists. We're talking about 15 every year, after what I realized. I have heard that it must be at least about 55 new ones, that it is approx. 100 today, and that might have to up to 155-- that's the numbers I've heard. When I talked about Hedmark, I read yesterday's Hamar Arbeiderblad, where County Manager Gunn K. Halvorsen of the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease was interviewed. She says the following: ‘Hedmark has only one fixed lung doctor, and he is in Kongswinger. In addition, Elverum has one such doctor every two weeks. This constitutes a crisis for the lung disease in our state." Now I'm not going to say whether this is right or not, I'm just reading it in the paper and I'm going to have to think that's right. Obviously, if there is so little capacity, and so many people are plagued by this disease – and as I understand it, there are more and more – I agree with the Council of State that prevention is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1652	I'm also satisfied with the questioner's satisfaction. In the case of Hedmark, it is true that the problem in Hedmark in particular is that you have not had applicants for a post for a lung doctor. It's a problem. Therefore, there is now an effort to train their own specialists. But as the questioner says, this takes time. It is therefore the case that the Inland Hospital does not currently have a fixed lung doctor on the Hamar–Elverum axis, so hospitals have had to bet on temporary workers. This means that a finished specialist is expected early in 2007, i.e. early next year. Then one expects that there will be a significant improvement in this situation, which I also believe is quite unacceptable. The Inland Hospital manages to prioritize the patients it is urgent to, it goes much faster than 25 weeks. For simpler lung diseases, it is five weeks' waiting time for Hamar. On the part of hospitals, a separate subject plan for the COLS strategy has been drawn up. So here's the thing going on, and early next year we have to be able to expect improvement for lung patients in Hedmark as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1661	I thank the Council once again for the answer. That this is a serious illness is clear. Last year it was approx. 15 000 new cases of COPD, and there will probably be more in the years to come. A large population of Norway suffers from this type of disease. I'm glad the Council of State says there's going to be a significant improvement in 2007, and hopefully in the years after that too. But for those who are already in line, the significant improvement may not come quickly enough. Can the Council of State look at some rapid measures, such as, where appropriate, buying services abroad — or in other states where there is no capacity available? I read the East German Post, and it says that it is also a crisis in its area. So it's probably not just in Hedmark there's a crisis in this. Does the Council see any possibility of promptly treating patients elsewhere in Norway, possibly purchasing services abroad — if it were to be the type of service to be purchased? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1670	It is true that there is a shortage of lung specialists throughout the country. It divides a little bit differently. That's why it's not always easy just to send to the same hospital. There are long queues, because we have too few lung specialists, simply, and because the disease is growing so dramatically in growth. As of today, it is on a land level of approx. 200,000 people who have COLS, so here we're talking about formidable challenges. However, I would like to remind you that we have a patient rights law that says that patients who are covered by it, and that is not least a part of serious lung disease, have the right to be treated within a time limit. And if they cannot be treated at the hospital near where they live, or by what they have chosen, the healthcare company is obliged to offer elsewhere in Norway. If it is not available within the period laid down by law, treatment must be offered in another country. The possibilities lie there, and I assume that the possibilities are used for the patients covered by this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1681	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The size of the budget decided during the previous enlargement period, on a proposal from the Bondevik II Government, that the Governing Board meetings of public health establishments should be open. When the Health East Board was due to discuss it for Eastfold on 9 November, the very important strategy paper Health East 2025, the board decided to close the meeting. This has provoked strong reactions in Eastfold. Does the Council of State consider such a practice of the provisions of open meetings of the Governing Council to be in line with the intention and letter of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1690	I think it is very important that the activities of healthcare companies are characterised by a culture of transparency. And there's going to be a high level of publicity about the issues being dealt with in the boards. There should be no doubt about that. The National Audit Board has reviewed the practices of the Governing Boards in the open meetings of the Governing Board. It shows that relatively few of the handlebars' cases are dealt with behind closed doors. Most healthcare companies publish management documents and governance protocols on their websites. The intention to open the Governing Board meetings to the public is to contribute to the confidence and legitimacy of the undertakings. It's important. We have a high degree of transparency about the work of the boards, and I want to say that transparency supports those objectives. In line with the Storting decision, the governance documents of the undertakings provide for the Governing Board meetings to be open. The governance documents provide for the application of the principles of the Public Relations Act. This means that meetings can only be closed when there is a real and factual need for it. Reasons shall be given when handling a case behind closed doors. The principle of merpublicity applies and there shall be a basis for the assessment by the board of directors of whether a case should be dealt with behind closed doors. In the specific matter the representative here asks if, the board has confessed to me has not recorded the reason for the meeting being closed. It is not in line with the guidelines on public access to meetings. On a general basis, it is not possible to assess whether there is real and factual reason to close a meeting to deal with a long-term strategy for a regional health business. In order to build confidence in the work of the board, in my view, such matters should initially be dealt with in open meetings. The long-term development of the specialist health service shall be highlighted in a public debate. This case shows that we can always get better. And we're going to be. In order to help maintain and strengthen the transparency of the work of the Boards, the Ministry of Health and Welfare will send letters to regional health establishments clarifying how the public meeting is to be conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1703	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as positive, in the sense that the Council of State, as I hear her, is clear that the practice of Health East here tried to put itself on is not in line with the intention of the provisions of the Great Britain and the Ministry. I want to underline how important this is. It is not a matter to be discussed here, it was actually necessary to discuss the development of the overall hospital supply to the entire population of Eastfold in the long term, and final decisions were to be taken as early as December. So hiding behind the fact that the matter was at a very early stage, as a big-time representative, I cannot accept. What is serious about this kind of secrecy is that it weakens the legitimacy and trust of perhaps the most important welfare provision available to the population, namely the hospital offer. And we can't live with that. I am very pleased that the Council of State is now inculcating this, and I feel that this is a taste of the fingers of Health East for the poor practice of the Public Service Act and the provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1712	Yes, there should be a factual and real reason if you don't have openness around these meetings. As I said, in the specific case, I have not registered that the board has recorded a reason why they closed the meeting, and that is not in line with the guidelines that apply. I'm going to clarify that, and that's also in view of the fact that these days we're sending out letters to all regional health companies. I fully agree with the questioner that as important matters as we are talking about here, for example. the construction of a new hospital in a state or region, of course, is of public interest. It was just to be lacking that people didn't get the insight and the opportunity to discuss it. Then there may be individual cases where there is any reason to exempt it, but then it has to be properly justified and recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1721	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its deepening. I am aware that Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad has appealed against the decision of the board to close the meeting on 9 November. Since Health East wanted to maintain its decision on a closed meeting, Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad asked that the case be forwarded as a complaint to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I expect the Council of State will deal with this complaint from Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad in a satisfactory way, and that it comes in addition to the clarification in general as she announced that she would send out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1728	We're trying to deal with every complaint that comes, in a proper way. We will also do that if there is a complaint from Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad. I hope for the future that we avoid the kind of things that we have seen here. That's why we're now clarifying this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1738	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘between 35 and 45 pst. all pregnant women are affected by pelvic solution during pregnancy. Many of these need assistance at home during and after birth. As Document No 8:33 was up to treatment in Stortinget, the Social and Health Directorate was asked to carry out a survey in its municipalities of the need for practical assistance at home. [[2004-2005]] This monitoring has not yet been carried out. Could the Council of States provide details of the timing and implementation of this monitoring?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1747	I have been informed that, for various reasons, the Social and Health Directorate has unfortunately been delayed with the assignment, and I regret that it takes a very long time to carry out this screening. The task will be delegated to an external instance. The Directorate has contacted the universities of Bergen, Tromsø, Ålesund and Akershus. These colleges offer nursery training, and they will have competence and overview in the field so that they can identify the real need. It shall include, inter alia: a survey is conducted among a sample of health sisters. The health sisters are known to have contact with nearly 100 pst. of newly-baked mothers. That is why they play a very important role here. Such monitoring should include all mothers who, for various reasons, need practical assistance at home, not only those with pelvic solutions, which are challenging in itself. I also think it is important that the mothers' and families' own views are taken into account in the assessment of the service provision. Often it's those who wear the shoe, who know best where it presses. I've been briefed that the colleges are positive to the contact from the Social and Health Directorate, and can start the task next year. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health shall conclude agreements with the higher education institutions and be responsible for the quality of the monitoring. So I'm going to help make it a little faster than it's done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1758	Thanks for the answer. I think there are a lot of women attending this screening. It is important, as the Council of State points out, that the user perspective is kept high, because it is the users who know it on the body, literally. In my opinion, very many women's diseases are underestimated, and many have done little research. This in turn leads to poorer follow-up of many women and much worse treatment. Does the Council agree that individual and flexible assistance can be preventative and that fewer women are then ill-reported or permanently disabled due to pelvic ejaculation problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1769	I believe it is absolutely essential that a listener listens to them. I also believe that in many contexts adapted solutions are the best, and that is what we have to strive for. It's not always one can get everything you want, but as far as possible, we have to listen to them. That's why this mapping becomes so important, so that we get a picture of what it needs, and what it wants. I fully agree with the questioner that many women's diseases are not sufficiently focused on, either in terms of diagnosis, research, treatment or, for that matter, rehabilitation. There is also a background that the Government has set up its own and new centre of expertise for women’s health at the Rikshospitale-Radium Hospital, which is just to focus on women’s diseases in particular, in terms of research, treatment and new technologies – just to give it more focus throughout the healthcare system. Of course, this should not happen in a vacuum alone in the Rikshospitalet, but in an interaction with hospitals and other environments elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1776	I would like to thank you for following up on the answer. I'll go a little further. For many years ago, housewives were the most important helpers in the home, especially when mother became ill. The home workers or carers have taken over this auxiliary role in the municipalities today. But today's experience for women who have pelvic ejaculation problems is that they may be helped to handle and wash the floor, but many people get little help in caring for and raising children. What competence does the Minister of Health think municipalities should have to provide these women with adequate help?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1783	I'm going to be very careful about the skills people are going to have to do these important jobs. I think it is important as far as possible to try to meet the needs that are actually, whether it be for assistance to care for children, action or other practical things. Therefore, this monitoring is invaluable. I think we have to start there. Then we have to figure out where we stand and what we need. When it comes to the question of housewives, I think it was a very good offer for many. I'm not going to say that we won't come back to it once in the future – perhaps to this group, but also to others. I think there's a lot of different ways to solve this. So I don't have a great attitude about it today, but like the questioner, I'm concerned that we can find solutions to that. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1794	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Four out of five municipalities have less than one midwife’s position in the municipality, which indicates that the midwife’s service is not a priority task in the municipalities. Health Minister Brustad said that too many municipalities have far too small settings for the midwives, pointing out that 87 pst. the municipalities have midwife in a part-time position. To the NRK, the Council of State says that it will inform the municipalities of the priority of midwives. What kind of action will the Council of State take to the municipalities to provide a defensive midwife service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1803	I'm glad that this question is addressed, because this is something that also concerns me. I am very concerned that pregnant women and their partners should be able to feel confident that they will receive good follow-up throughout pregnancy and until after birth, regardless of where they live in the country, and that they themselves should also be able to choose whether to go to a midwife or a doctor – or to both, when necessary. As the questioner is well aware, the municipalities have been obliged to provide midwifery service since 1995. It is clear from the regulations on the health promotion and prevention of the municipality in health and school health services that the municipality should offer pregnant women to go to pregnancy control in relation to a health station. The municipality shall provide access to necessary personnel, including: general medical and midwifery services. In Stortinget's treatment of the emergency message, St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, on emergency preparedness, which was dealt with in June 2001, several important decisions were taken which also show how the various aspects of maternity care relate. In order to strengthen the real ability of pregnant women, irrespective of their finances, to choose the form of overall maternity care they themselves wish, the Stortinget Government asked to ‘encourage proposals for the legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy by midwives in both private and public activities’. This has been followed up, and since 1 May 2004, private-practicing midwives with an operating agreement with the municipality have also been able to trigger rates for pregnancy control. This has been one grip. A prerequisite for user choice and security is that sufficient human resources are available — of course. As a result, since the late 1990s, the Ministry has been actively working to improve the recruitment and stability of the general medical service, and developments have been positive in most places. In the examination of the emergency communication, the Social Committee also stated that ‘there is a need to look at the scope and content of the statutory midwifery service.’ The Social and Health Directorate has surveyed the midwifery services of municipalities and accompanying services. The report was handed over to the Ministry in June 2004. This survey shows, as the representative of Starheim points out, that we are facing some challenges related to soil killing, small job breaks and geographical distribution of the service. I am also informed that some municipalities and townspeople have no offer of follow-up at all with a midwife. I believe it is essential to look at the whole of maternity, maternity and maternity care and to look at the interaction within and between the levels of service. As we also underline in the 2007–2010 National Health Plan, continuity and safety for women are an important feature of our quality care. The specialist health service is required to cooperate with the local health service on action to improve interaction between service levels. Examples include binding cooperation agreements on ICT-based communication and systematic work on continuous treatment chains. Such general framework conditions for interaction will also have an impact on the development of comprehensive and coherent maternity and maternity care. In spring 2005, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health completed professional guidance on maternity care. As you know, these guidelines establish a national professional standard for working with pregnant women and their families. It is recommended that ‘care for women with normal pregnancy should be given by midwife or general practitioner or through cooperation between general practitioner and midwife’. Although these guidelines are concentrated primarily on procedures that should underpin good maternity care, they also draw attention to the importance of interaction and continuity in this care. We're now working on several teams to follow these guidelines. One important step taken by the Government is a general increase in the municipal economy. Municipalities must have money to hire more midwives and that more people can work in more jobs than is the case today. We must expect that the increase in the municipal economy that one has received for the current year, and that is in our proposal for the state budget for the next year, will also benefit the maternity care. I would also encourage municipalities to hire several midwives at several health centres, or take the initiative to enter into an operating agreement with a private-practitioner midwife where this may be the case. The call comes in Circular 1, which is a permanent annual letter to the municipalities, where health authorities provide guidance on what should be given priority in the field of health and social services. The recruitment of midwives at a health centre can also be done by means of the Pedagogical Health Plan, as part of strengthening psychosocial prevention. So there's more possibilities. Overall, I believe that these measures will help to strengthen maternity care and the freedom of choice of users. The government will also come back to more concrete proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1831	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The signals we receive from our local government representatives indicate that there are many statutory tasks that they are simply not able to prioritise. The party of progress has, in several ways, pointed out the need to listen to the means to what we think is the most important. But the government's signal is that they have the confidence of their local local government representatives that they give priority to the areas that the government is telling them to prioritize. The statistics referred to here clearly show that this is not happening, and I would like to make the claim that it is not the Progress Party's representatives around that do not give priority to health. On the contrary, they strongly advocate it. Does the Council not see the need for eartaging to do so, if one is to come any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1840	The Labour Party and the Advance Party will probably separate a little layer in terms of the fact that earmarking is the answer to everything in this world. In fact, we have confidence that there are many sensible people in municipal governments and city governments around. Then I understand that through the starvation that has been of the local government for many years under the previous government, some of it also with the support of the Progress Party, there are many municipalities that cannot afford to do everything in one or a half years. But I think, and so far we have a pretty good overview now, that of the extra money given for the current year, the majority have gone to care. I hope that part of it will also produce results for the midwife service, and I have the confidence, the hope and the belief that when there is even more money next year, we will experience that we get more midwife positions in the municipalities. But we're going to follow up with circulars. We have to be careful, and we have to remind ourselves of the laws and guidelines that actually apply, so that women get a real choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1849	When the Council of State admits that there may still be too little money for a around-the-world to prioritize funds for this, the Council of State should also see that it is even more necessary to earmark money for one as my mind is the most important thing. All statistics show that it has not been done. When it's in 87 pst. is not satisfactory for the municipalities, it is clear that local politicians have not found this area important enough to prioritize it. I'd like to ask, is it so to understand that one must be criminal and incarcerated in prison in order for one to get the necessary health service from the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1858	No, of course not. I want to remind you that we have one of the world's best health services, although it's still challenging. I would also like to remind you that Norway is among the countries in the world where childbirth is safest. That's the way it should be in the future, it's the government's clear ambition. I am as impatient as the asker for more midwives in the municipalities, because I believe it is not acceptable that there are so many municipalities that do not have it, and that have such small fractions. We're going to follow that up. So we think we're going to do it through increases in the local economy, where we're increasing significantly, and that the answer isn't necessarily more earmarked. But this I'm going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-22.ana.ud511e1865	The ordinary Questionnaire is over and the current map has thus been completed.
