ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e111	There are applications from representatives Laila Davay and Hallgeir H. Langeland for leave on 18 and 19 December – both to attend the 52nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Knut Arild HareideFor the county of Rogaland: Gjertrud Kjellesvik3. Gjertrud Kjellesvik is elected to the Lagninget for the time she meets the representative of Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e131	Knut Arild Hareide and Gjertrud Kjellesvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e137	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended, so that the minutes of the Odelstinget should be held on Tuesday 19 December following the end of the Grand Meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e145	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e155	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be interrupted, if necessary, for Stortingets Christmasunsj at 0 p.m. 13.45 p.m. and I'll see you again at 13.45 p.m. 16 for the evening meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e169	The President requests a new member of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e172	I suggest Reidar Sandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e179	Olav Aksensen has proposed Reidar Sandal as a new member of the electoral committee by Karl Eirik Schjøett-Pedersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Sandal is unanimously elected as a new member of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e195	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1589]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e211	It turns out that Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete has had transport problems reaching the meeting, and therefore the Council of State Sylvia Brustad must take her place until she arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e214	We will now deal with the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:8 for 2005-2006. The aim of that report was to examine the extent to which the organisation and management of Oslopack 2 has been a priority when it comes to the objective of increasing collective ownership in the metropolitan area. There are several things to say about this. First, the Committee noted that the main conclusion of the Riksrevision was negative. The overarching objective of increasing collective participation is to a small extent reflected in the planning, implementation and follow-up of the package. The National Audit Office points out that the actors, the State of the Ministry of Transport, Akershus County and Oslo Municipality, are at one and the same time apparently some of such a goal, but have different perceptions of what the objective of increasing the collective part actually means. The Committee's view is that it would have been ideal if the actors could be more likely to be some of the targets for increasing collective participation, and that the reporting of progress in the work of Oslopacket 2 had contained information on the extent to which the projects are likely to achieve such an objective. Oslopacket 2 is not yet completed, and a final evaluation of the impact on the collective part of travel must therefore be expected. It is true that local measures that go beyond Oslopacket2, for example: local parking policies and land-use planning will affect the number of people, both absolute and relative, who actually travel collectively. It is equally positive that the Riksrevision has seen closer to Oslopackak 2 all now, not least because one can draw lessons that hopefully may be relevant to similar bets in the future, cf. in particular Oslopackak 3. The National Audit Office points out that the investment funds in Oslopacket 2 have not been distributed according to socio-economic profitability, but in line with a more or less well-defined balance between Akershu County and Oslo Municipality. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision has criticised the Ministry of Transport for not having started a strategic work aimed at improving the socio-economic profitability of Oslopak 2. We assume that the Ministry of Transport will intensify its efforts to develop better socio-economic profitability analyses of large investment projects, especially in the context of collective action. At the same time, it seemed to me to be an honest point to point out that, from time to time, real-world policy considerations suggest that extensive cooperation between different local actors and management levels of the kind of Oslopacket 2 in practice implies a regional distribution of investment funds that are not always socio-economically optimal. Such projects may, in practice, depend on fragile political settlements and compromises, where regional concerns can be important cornerstones. The Committee feels that the greater and greater the degree of government involvement in such projects, the more important it is that state governance intensifys efforts to ensure that the overall project is carried out in a socially efficient way. The National Audit Office has also looked at the organisation of Oslopackak 2 cooperation. The central cooperation bodies are called the Coordination Committee and the Coordination Group. During the coordination, planning and decision-making process under Oslopacket 2, the Coordination Group shall have an administrative and procedural role in relation to the Coordination Committee. This cooperation is voluntary. It is based on the fact that the different levels of administration, state, county and municipality, initially have clearly defined areas of responsibility for transport policy. It is right to say that the Riksrevision is somewhat critical of this organisation, all the time when there is no obligation to cooperate between the parties involved. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the Ministry of Transport, in its reply to the Riksrevision, states that the Ministry will consider the coordination problem in the context of Oslopakton 3 in response to this criticism. It is good to say that in spite of all this, cooperation has developed in a positive path along the way. In addition, the Committee believes that the local self-government should both set and set clear limits on how active the State, in this case by the Ministry of Transport, should govern and dominate cooperation that goes beyond the level of administration. However, the Committee would point out that government powers have a responsibility to work for the defence management of state resources, and that the State can also generally take a number of initiatives to improve cooperation between local actors without having to do so. definition broken by local self-government. Finally, let me say: we have also noticed that the Riksrevision has its own analyses of two separate projects, namely the T-banning and the decision-making process in connection with the choice of collective solutions to Fornebu. On the whole, these two projects illustrate that a comprehensive assessment of how Oslopak 2 affects the collective part of travel in the capital area, led to the actual implementation of collective actions. So I notice that the Progress Party and the Right have found it right with their own special comments, but there are no big differences of opinion in the Committee. Finally, let me just thank the other members of the Committee for good cooperation also during the consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e240	I would first like to join in the good evaluation and review that the rapporteur had of Document No. 3:8, but in this context I would like to take the opportunity to make a small comment in relation to Oslopak 2. Good coordination between management levels and actors is a prerequisite for ensuring comprehensive and effective solutions to challenges in the field of transport. It is therefore worrying when the Riksrevision in its study shows that the work with Oslopakt 2 is partly affected by conflicting interests and little committed cooperation. An important objective of the initiative has been to increase the share of collective travel in the Oslo region. This is a necessary objective if we are to manage to reduce pollution and contribute to a better environment. Therefore, it is with some wonder that I record that the overall objective is only slightly reflected in the planning, implementation and follow-up of Oslopackak 2. Reference to consensus on objectives, but different understanding of instruments, reinforces the impression of non-coordination. It is true that three parties with different wishes and needs are involved. In this situation, however, the State must play a decisive role and cut through if the parties do not reach an agreement. The launch of measures before agreement on objectives and instruments cannot lead to the desired outcome. The need for overall intervention in the transport sector is high. Transport arrangements may not stop at county limits. Furthermore, it is important to clarify the basis for the socio-economic gain of the initiative. The responsibility for this must lie in the department. A major boost in the transport sector must be seen as a whole project and not as a ambiguity. Therefore, all participants must require commitment. Such an approach, of course, does not mean that local self-government is not respected. It was just to be lacking that the respective county councils should not have influence over the form of bet and choice of solutions in their areas. However, the overall thinking, the responsibility for achieving comprehensive solutions, must lie with the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e253	Oslopackak 3 is on its way to treatment in Stortinget. It is the country's largest toll package so far, currently estimated at NOK 5 billion. For comparison: the provisional toll code is the Government itself which has, with a council from the Toll Resistance Party, the Senter Party in the head. In 2006, seven projects have passed in Stortinget, with a total framework of DKK 10 billion, of which over DKK 7 billion are financed by tolls. In too many cases local people allow pressure to accept toll financing – extra taxes on road use – because the state runs from its financial responsibility imposed on the state in the Road Act § 27. When the government and the majority of the population push toll taxes, those who pay must be able to expect money consumption to be particularly carefully controlled and controlled. That is what this matter is all about. For the first time: this case concerns the revision of parts of Oslopackak 2 in the long term until the decision and start-up of Oslopackak 3. The study includes the organisation and management of work and, in addition, the development of the T-banning and the decision-making process on the choice of collective solution for Fornebu. It is important, correct and timely that the Riksrevision takes care of the large toll projects. It is not enough, in itself, for the Directorate-General of Road to supervise the activities of toll companies, a maximum necessary but not enough effective supervision. This is not least because – I do not repeat – there are central regulations on the use of tolls. Such regulations have been requested by the Progress Party for a long time and have been promised by the Minister of Transport of this government, but are still not presented. The foreground lot will underline, with reference to page 10 of the document: ‘The same requirements are made for the planning process, planning basis and cost estimate of a project financed in full or in part by tolls, as for a project fully financed by public budgets.’;» It was just supposed to be missing! But what is actually missing is the extra control due to the exceptional method of funding, especially in the form of en route control. My en route check says the clock is not working, so I don't know how much time I have left, President. But I'll have a good mood for that. The National Auditor gives Oslopackak 2 hard criticism. I'm not going to take all the summaries. I'll be careful with one about the T-banning: ‘In this case, the study has asked whether the Ministry has fulfilled its responsibility to ensure that the planning of major projects financed in full or in part by State resources is of satisfactory quality.’ That says a lot. The Committee has mainly joined the National Audit Office's findings and findings. The Executive Board, as pointed out by the Advocate General, has critical comments together with the Right in addition to the Committee's. We're amazed at some relationships. I'm not going to spend time repeating it. Finally, I should like to point out that the Progress Party has its own comment, where we point in particular to the fact that the T-banning project is a deterrent example, which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, illustrates a pulverisation of responsibility and a lack of respect for paid resources from the drivers. It can and shouldn't be like that. Toll collection continues as required by government and stowage. At least the drivers must be able to demand that the money be used in a good way, and there is a good deal left. Cleaning and better control using tolls is needed. Most importantly, there is a need to amend Section 27 of the Road Act, which makes it possible to use toll financing at all for what is the task of the State and the responsibility of the State, namely to build roads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e287	The representative of Arne Sortevik remained secure within the time frame. The clock has stopped, but time never stops going.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e290	The rapporteur's posts can be mainly taken up by me. There is not much disagreement in this setting, although there are a few minority comments. However, I find the following reason to say: it is not very noticeable that a report points out that Norwegian road projects are not always prioritised according to socio-economic profitability. We didn't need a national audit report to take it over us, to say it like that. As long as the country is divided into 19 counties, I think you have to live with that there are local political priorities that also count. If not, there would have been a lot of road projects in some parts of the country – without mentioning my name here. What this report can well teach us is that the management complexity of such road projects based on solutions to be agreed between two counties and to which the State will participate is quite difficult. The Ministry has pointed out that a simplification of the governance model is being considered. I think that's all there is to do, but at the same time I have to say that to maintain the consensus on which such an agreement between two states is based, you have to make some real-world policy assessments. This means that one project may go ahead of another, even if purely socio-economic profitability should give a different priority. A little with the address of the last speaker, Sortevik, I do not think this report really gives rise to a very strong debate on tolls – for or against – because, in any case, the projects to be implemented through Oslopacket 3, also need to be assessed on the basis of the socio-economic profitability models used by the Government on major projects, in practice for two rounds. Should the report teach us something in relation to Oslopackak 3, it had to be that the department before the package is presented to the Stortinget, is careful to make sure that the two counties agree on the interpretation of the agreement. We see a few examples in Oslopackak 2 where Oslo and Akershus have disagreed on the interpretation of e.g. how to calculate the rate increase – the 75 ears. It is necessary for such disagreements to be discovered before the presentation of the large development plan by Stortinget in Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e299	I think this has been a good round in relation to an important, but also difficult matter. I am confident that if the Council of State had not been stuck in the air traffic in the West, it would have just come to underline the useful ride that this report will be in her and the department's interaction with the actors who are now in Oslopackak 3. So I feel tempted to take a little visit to the Progress Party. I thought it was a little helpful to stand here and hang around with claims about the centre party as a toll lot no. 1st@item: inlistbox The centre party, like many others, is a source of good traffic solutions — both the potential it provides for a better path, and the potential it offers to strengthen public transport, which is the main cause in this case. But I find reason to remind you of two things. One is that the toll projects that have passed this hall have been initiated locally. Secondly, as far as I understand, the Progress Party has also entered Oslopackak 3 with the tolls it represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e308	With the fact that the responsible state council that is known to be stuck in the West because of the weather and aircraft, it is difficult for me to comment on everything that has been raised in the debate, on a tight arm. But I've listened and noted, and I'll try to make some comments. First of all, I would like to say right away that we take note of the fact that the Riksrevision report and the Committee's position. I would also like to agree with the speakers who have said that it is important that we have comprehensive solutions. I have been informed by the Ministry of Transport that they will intensify their efforts to develop better socio-economic profitability analyses of large investment projects, especially in the context of public transport. Experience with Oslopackak 2 draws you on. Therefore, it is natural that this is also the basis for the ongoing work on Oslopackak 3. According to the Ministry of Transport, the organisation of Oslopackak 2, which the Committee is certainly well aware of, has taken place within the Coordination Committee and the Coordination Group. It involves, as you know, voluntary cooperation and no obligatory cooperation. In its response to the Riksrevision, the Ministry of Transport has said that organisation/cooperation will be assessed in the context of Oslopakset 3, as a lesson from what has happened in the context of Oslopakket 2. So I would also like to stress that the seas if the local maritime administration of course applies, and will apply, and will provide some limits on how active the state can be in some areas, it is also so that the state can nevertheless take the initiative to improve cooperation between local actors, without this being at the expense of the local maritime administration, and that one sees here there is a potential, as we have seen not least in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e319	I'm going to avoid challenging an absent State Council. Nevertheless, I have a few further comments on the matter. The reason why we point to both Oslopack 3 and the many toll projects adopted in 2006 is precisely what is being revealed here. When the use of tolls increases in scope and in the number of projects, it is very important that we have a careful, watchful look at money use. That is why it is good – I repeat: it is good – that the Riksrevision is also involved in that control. What makes us extra worried, as I said in my first post, is that there are actually no rules on how these means are to be used in a uniform, safe, good and verifiable way. I'm sure the Riks revision is aware of that. But it's equally important that we also get regulations on the table that can clean up a little bit in the too many toll projects. So it is not least important to have more thoughts in your head at the same time: when we adopt new, large-scale toll projects along the way, we might want to take care of both under the decision and beyond. It has not been long since the Stortinge decided on two major projects. I can point to the Bergen programme, which has a cost estimate of DKK 5 billion, and which also has a large collective share, but which does not have the coordination and coordination between local promoters and, for example, local promoters. The NSB as pointed out in this document from the National Audit Office just pointed out had been an advantage in Oslo. When we tried to point out just a week ago in the budget position of the Transport Committee that it might have been okay to take some action afterwards before this project comes too far, even the parties that now express themselves critically to the governance here – and that, in part, the entire committee – have been absent. When we ask for roadside control of the large toll project the Bergen programme, the Progress Party is all alone. When we ask that the collective part of the Bergen programme be better coordinated with the NSB, which has just submitted a core network message and wants to intensify its activities in the big cities, we are rejected by the other parties. No one's interested in it. But it's pointed out here that it would have been a good idea to get NSB in at an earlier point in time. So finally, in June, I asked the Council of Transport States how she would follow up the report of the National Audit Office – because it came then – in relation to Oslopak 2. In any case, the answer was – to be diplomatic – that there is reason to ask again. That will also be done by the Progress Party. We will follow closely the follow-up both from the department and further from the Riksrevision quite closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e330	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1589]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e346	The size shall now examine the Riksrevision's report on emergency medical preparedness in the specialist hospital. This sounds technical and formal, but is about something so commonplace and not least important as rapid access to emergency medical care. When accidents are out, when crises occur, it is crucial that people get help quickly, and that help keep goals up. This means that people should have satisfactory and good access to medical care through the AMK centres, the ambulance services and emergency services in hospitals. The Committee is broadly agreed in its comments. The progress batch has its own notes on some points. In the case of ambulance services, the Riksrevision points out among others: the unfortunate fact that ambulances in some places are being used for clean transport operations where other alternatives to driving vehicles should be useful. The Committee has concluded with the Riksrevision’s assessment that the ambulance service should generally focus more on cost-effective operations and assumes that the ministry will follow suit. We have also reported that the Riksrevision has found that the availability of emergency medical services varies between health regions. Acute selection, cf. NOU 1998:9, recommending that in case of emergency summits 90 pst. of the population of towns and cities could be reached by ambulance within 12 minutes, while 90 pst. of those who live in pig-grown strips, shall be able to receive the same service within 25 minutes. The National Audit Office finds that the median waiting time for all AMK districts is 10–15 minutes, but that there are considerable variations between AMK districts. Time is often a critical factor when it comes to medical care, but the majority in the committee believe that the proven response time for the ambulance services is essentially a good target. On the other hand, there is good reason to be critical that both lying time and waiting time for leaks in emergency rooms can be long-lasting. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that this is very critical. Hospitals in the study report lying times between one and four hours. Waiting may drag some locations out of your streamer is not available. In addition, time will come before patients can be transferred to the appropriate hospital ward. Here my committee can do much better. This includes: important that experienced deputies should be more appropriate in supplementing turnaround candidates in the reception and evaluation of patients in emergency reception. We're assuming that the department will follow up on this point as well. The size has previously believed that it is important to make professional demands for the ambulance and air ambulance services, cf. Inner. S. No 300 for 2000-2001. We have noticed that developments are moving towards a growing number of vocational letters in this service. It's positive. At the same time, the National Audit Office points out that the proportion of ambulance staff lacking a letter is highest in the health regions where, on average, the ambulance staff has the highest responsibility for patients during emergency printing. With the background of a district municipality, I find reason to stress that it can be just as full that the real competence is high, among other things. due to long-term experience of such work. Otherwise, the national audit shows that doctors on duty are required to be connected to the health radio network, but this does not always appear to be the case. Furthermore, the Riksrevision points out that participation from the primary health care service in emergency printing is not equally available at all locations. This is a serious discovery. We assume that the department follows up and looks at actions that are capable of correcting these identified defects. Let me go to the end again pointed out that access to emergency medical services is rapidly crucial. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision's assessment that the Ministry should place great emphasis on developing better management parameters in the field of emergency. This will also be able to provide further and deeper management information and facilitate the follow-up of further quality development of the emergency medical services here to countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e365	The purpose of the National Audit Office’s study has been to highlight the extent to which the population has satisfactory and equivalent access to emergency medical care, and how resources are managed, organised and exploited in order to achieve the overall policy objectives of equivalent services and high quality. Actually, the National Audit Office's review is discouraging to the public. The operating costs of ambulance services in 2004 were DKK 2.3 billion. This is 3.6 pst. of the total operational costs of the health regions for the specialist health service. The costs are highest in Health North with 574 million. kr and lowest in Health West with 381 million. kr. The National Audit Office’s survey also shows that ambulances are often used for clean transport operations, although this could be carried out with other means of transport, such as: dross, which is, in fact, more reasonable in many respects. To this end, the National Audit Office states that questions are raised about whether adequate attention is paid in all districts to the cost-effective operation of the ambulance service. It is noted that in some places the ambulance service is used for pure transport operations. I look forward to the Council's assessments of just this. Otherwise, when you know that there is a lack of money in healthcare companies, the money they have should be spent as efficiently as possible. In terms of availability and waiting time, this also varies greatly from place to place. On average, people with an acute need for health care have to wait for approx. 12 minutes from the AMK centre is alerted until the ambulance is out. The study shows that patients arriving at hospital emergency facilities may be at risk of waiting a long time before being evaluated by a doctor. The waiting time may also be long before they are transferred to other hospital departments. For hospitals who have reported such waiting times, the waiting time varies from one hour to four hours. The waiting time is mainly due to the fact that the doctor is not available, and there may be coordination problems that make it difficult to have the patient placed in bed. This problem is also apparent through the number of corridors. If you put a lot of resources on the centres and ambulances to get acutely ill people to the hospital quickly, it's totally unacceptable that when they first get to the hospital, they have to wait from one hour to four hours before doctors do anything. So you can make investments in transport to cut a few minutes, and then it goes away because you have to wait for a doctor when you get to a hospital. Of course, this is not acceptable. The National Audit Office’s study shows that the waiting time may be too long in the acute recipients, and in parts of the country the response time for the AMK centres is too long. Lack of bed capacity and Corridor Asians is a major problem, and there is a lack of medical capacity and the use of spinal surgeons with little experience. The effectiveness of the rest of the hospital depends on how the emergency department works. It is important to ensure that there are no bottlenecks elsewhere in the system. The national audit suggests that there is still a potential to reduce response time in many districts. With regard to the competence of the emergency chain, it was 44 pst. by the ambulance staff lacking a letter of formal qualifications in 2004. In three out of five regions had less than 50 pst. by the staff of the ambulance department. The share is lowest in Health North with 27 pst. In Health Mid-Norway, the share is 38 pst. In these regions, staff are often responsible for the patient for a longer period of time than in other regions. During the treatment of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000 the Social Committee stressed the importance of compensating enterprises in these regions for the long transport period by making professional demands on ambulance and air ambulance staff. It cannot be seen that the Ministry and the undertakings have followed up this reference by the Social Committee. The National Audit Service points out that only approx. Half of the ambulance staff have a letter of formal qualifications, and this is a problem, because the ambulance staff is often alone to provide the patient with the necessary treatment for up to one hour before they reach the hospital. The lack of competence can be critical. The National Audit Office also points out that it is doubtful whether the Department has followed up the Storting's emphasis on the importance of making professional demands on the staff and that the Department must clarify how to ensure proper supervision of the patient. The medical competence of the emergency services is also questioned by the National Audit Office. As regards cooperation between specialist health services and primary health services in emergency situations, the study shows that communication and information problems exist in many places between levels. In some cases, AMK centres and ambulance services have difficulties getting access to doctors who have been on guard in the municipalities because they are often not connected to the health radio network. In many cases, it is also a problem that primary doctors rarely move to the place of injury and assist the ambulance staff in emergency situations. Therefore, before the ambulance arrives, it is usually only the ambulance staff who treats and assesses the patient. It is therefore the responsibility of the ambulance staff for a significant amount of responsibility and high standards of health professional competence. The National Audit Office points out that the emergency chain communication is not good enough and that many municipalities and primary doctors are not connected to any nationwide communications network. Cooperation between specialist health services and primary health services is not working well enough. The primary health service has an obligation to assist in emergency care, but primary doctors rarely move out to assist the ambulance staff in emergency situations, says the Riksrevision. Perhaps, therefore, the way in which all of this is organised, with different levels of responsibility, should be re-examined, including by the other parties in the Stortinget. In the case of management requirements and documentation in the emergency medical chain, reporting in this area, according to the Riksrevision, is deficient. The regional health establishments have little mention of the situation and the achievement of results in the emergency chain in their communications to the ministry. This may, in our opinion, give instructions on how to enter into the usual reporting procedures. Half of the AMK centres and ambulance services used a time recording tool that is suitable for recording and reporting results — half. Why the other half can't be told to do the same thing, we wonder. The National Audit Office points out that the Social Committee has underlined the importance of developing a better knowledge base in the field of emergency and has asked the Ministry to follow closely in the development of response times. Health business reporting is deficient, so only half of the AMK centres use time recording tools. There is no information available that can tell about the evolution of response times, according to the Riksrevision. It is clear from the Riksrevision's studies that the Ministry has not followed up the Storting's comments and recommendations in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000 on emergency preparedness in a number of areas. Then you can ask questions about the purpose of involving the Storting and giving clear messages when they are not effectively followed up by the Department. Emergency preparedness in the healthcare sector is a very important area and an essential factor for citizens' sense of security. In particular, it is important that ambulance staff are trained to cope with the demanding tasks they may be assigned to them. The use of ambulances when a stretcher is not required is wasted with resources and poor use of capacity, as well as the loss of emergency response when an ambulance is unnecessarily engaged in transport operations and thus not available for perhaps an acute emergency that may occur at the same time. It is also important that local emergency emergency hospital is within reach in an emergency situation. In emergency receptions, special training should be provided for professionals or professional teams who can assess patients and diagnose them correctly so that time can be saved and patients treated at the appropriate level. It is necessary to extend the capacity of the medical departments in order to eliminate the problem of corticosteroids. In Document No: 8:36 for 1999-2000 promoted the proposals of the Progress Party Group to expand bed capacity in medical wards in hospitals in order to remove the problem of Corridor Asians. The proposal was adopted by the majority attached to the minutes, but noted that an increase in bed capacity was necessary. I then assume that there are often issues of resources, i.e. money, in regional health businesses for different measures. In this regard, it is interesting that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at a press conference today stated that when it comes to the development of kindergartens, it should not be on money. So economics is not an argument that the government accepts not to achieve the goal of full child care coverage in 2007. I call for the same attitude from the Government regarding the provision of a sound medical health service to the population of Norway. So it now has to be saved in all regional health businesses. These are about redundancies of staff, about going out to some places of unemployment, because you have to save money. I challenge the Minister of Health to explain the link between why it should not be on money in one area, while in terms of a sound health and medical offer to the population, money is precisely the driving force behind development. Cooperation between specialist health services and primary health services needs to be improved so that primary doctors can move into emergency situations. Both primary doctors and municipalities must be connected to national communications networks, so that resources can be used when emergency situations arise, and that the use of ambulances can be coordinated as best as possible in order to avoid abuse and to have a proper preparedness. Regional health undertakings must ensure that agreements with private ambulance service providers also contribute to the needs of the services and that response times in all parts of the country are sound and provide citizens with the necessary security in emergency situations. I would like to make the following suggestions, which are included in the vote: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for a review of the emergency response based on the National Audit Office’s report and the transfer of responsibilities to regional health companies.’ So the Social Committee asked a few years ago for some things that have not been implemented. And now it's been six years since the message was promoted. When we then get such a report from the National Audit Office that says there is a lack of coordination, and that the necessary organisation of the emergency receivers is far from satisfactory, it is not enough that the Stortinget just says the same thing that was said six years ago. We will therefore have presented a separate case from the Government to the Stortinget, which is based on the Riksrevision report, and also assesses whether the transfer of responsibility for emergency preparedness to regional health companies was really sensible. If you don't make sure someone is forced to review this so that the necessary proposals are presented to the Stortinget, it boils down in the cabbage as usual. We therefore hope to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e412	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e415	Let me first of all say that I fully agree with the Swedish Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the National Audit Board that rapid access to high-quality emergency medical services is of vital health importance. Rapid help is also very important for people's sense of security, as several speakers have been about it. This is why this is a field that both I and regional health companies place great emphasis on improving and developing, and where much has been done in a short time. I'll try to go through six important points in a row. Firstly, for the indication that ambulances are used in some contexts for pure transport operations. There I believe that if this transport does not need to be carried out with an ambulance, it should not do so either. The responsibility for patient transport was, as you know, transferred from popular concern to regional health businesses in 2004. The purpose of this transfer was that the body in need of the service should also bear the costs. One consequence of this is that one can assess patient transport and ambulance transport in the context. Several health businesses have introduced so-called health expressives, which are buses for patient transport, as an alternative to ambulances and taxis. The government has strengthened the decentralised provision of specialist health services. It's a work we're going to continue. At the same time, we know that there is a development with increased functional distribution between hospitals. The trend is likely to be that the number of transport operations will increase, both between different treatment sites and between treatment sites and the patient’s home. Therefore, flexible use of various means of transport, for which provision has now been made, is an important tool to prevent the deterioration of ambulance preparedness. But I would like to stress that this is to be further developed, so that ambulances are used for what ambulances are actually going to be used for. Point 2: When the National Audit Office has pointed out that there are variations in response time, and that there is room for improving response times in some districts, I can immediately agree with that. Some response time variations can be largely explained by geographical circumstances. In parts of the country where people live very widely, there may be large distances between the place of injury and treatment. We also know that in parts of the country there may be rough weather conditions. All regional health businesses are working to reduce their response time further, and this is absolutely necessary. But I would also like to say that it is as important to increase the competence of ambulance workers as it is to reduce the response time even more. In many places, the ambulance service has very few assignments. This makes it very difficult for the staff to maintain good competence in emergency medicine when it really applies. In several places, there will be many watchdays where the staff are on duty, but not called out on a single mission. The risk of having many ambulance services that have few assignments is that the quality of the offer will not be good enough. This may mean that the public’s sense of security often does not correspond to the real offer. Several of the regional health businesses have now been subject to health business ambulance plans. In some places this has led to changes in the location of ambulances. Two - man cars and bystanders have also been introduced. These are important measures to reduce response time and improve the quality of supply. As you know, the government has decided to introduce bystanders at the rescue helicopters in Banak and Bodø. These are also important measures that in particular strengthen preparedness and lead to a shorter response time for the population of Northern Norway. Point 3: The National Audit Board points out that 44 pst. by the ambulance staff did not have a letter of formal notice in 2004. As you know, the regulation on requirements for emergency medical services outside hospital entered into force on 1 April 2005. An important point in this Regulation is new requirements for the competence of the ambulance service. One of these requirements is that at least one of those serving the ambulance should have a letter of formal qualifications, i.e. a licence or authorisation as an ambulance worker. A transitional period of up to five years has been granted to satisfy this requirement, from 1 April 2005. We have examined the status of regional health firms, and the figures show that since 2004, the proportion of ambulance professionals with vocational letters has increased significantly, which is the year the Riksrevision has examined. To that I would say that healthcare companies are now working well to meet the requirement of the regulation within the agreed deadline. I want to use an example to show the progress: in Health Mid-Norway, the proportion of ambulance staff with a letter increased from 53 pst. from 2004 to 65 pst. in 2005. Today it's all 85 pst. in this region which has either completed or is in the process of completing a training course in order to meet the competence requirement. Point 4: The National Audit Office points out that in some emergency situations, AMK centres and ambulance services have difficulties in getting in touch with a janitor in the municipalities. That's not good enough either. It is a problem that municipal medical practitioners are often not available on the health radio network. This has been pointed out both by the National Audit Office and by the State Health Authority. I am very concerned about strengthening the interaction between primary and specialist health services in several areas, so that we get the most ‘navigable’ healthcare service for the whole population. The decision will be taken later today to consider the Government's proposal to initiate the first stage of construction of new nationwide digital emergency networks. This is a very important step in strengthening the interaction between emergency medical services. It is particularly important that municipalities also see their responsibilities and use the new network actively, in line with the requirements of the regulation on emergency medical services outside hospitals. Point 5: The Riksrevision points out that in many cases patients have to wait a long time in hospital emergency services before treatment is given, and that it is usually a turnaround doctor and not an experienced doctor who assesses the patient. This is not good enough either. I have this autumn set up a working group to look at the content of the emergency services at our local hospitals. The committee will deliver a report to me in March next year. In my 2006 letter of assignment to regional health companies, I stressed that regional health businesses should develop clear treatment chains at local hospitals, among others. too acutely ill. Many hospitals solve such challenges by establishing observation posts related to the emergency reception. The work on developing good offers for the acutely ill is in good hands. I want to make sure that this continues in the future, because there's no doubt here that it's still a potential. Finally, point 6: The Riksrevision points out that results in the acute field are not reported to a large extent. It has therefore been asked whether the department has the necessary management information in such an important area. It is essential that the Department has a precise overview of management information in the field of emergency medicine. I have therefore asked the Social and Health Directorate to provide a system for collecting and processing data from emergency medical services by the end of this year. The Ministry will follow up the Directorate's proposals in this area, which I consider to be extremely important, so that we have a good reporting system and good practice in the field of emergency. Much positive has happened since 2004, but I fully agree that we still have a way to go. I'm going to assure the Storting that we're going to have a lot of attention on the work to increase the quality and competence of the services also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e447	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1589]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e463	The introduction of the Knowledge Lift this autumn gives a strong and important focus to the school. Key elements of the Knowledge Lift are to ensure better adapted training and learning outcomes for each individual student. An overall committee suggests that the Knowledge promise will meet many of the challenges identified by the Riksrevision in Document No. 3:10 for 2005-2006, but several of the findings should influence the work of the Knowledge Lift. The Court of Auditors has held in Document No. 3:10 conducted an examination of primary school training. The study was conducted mainly in 2004 and 2005. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s study has been to highlight the extent to which conditions are facilitated for training to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Training Act. In addition, the report highlights the follow-up to training at municipal and state level. The Committee is essentially united on most of the conclusions of its deliberations. However, the Progress Party has submitted its own comments, such as: points to the funding system, and the Christian People's Party and the Right stress in a separate joint remark that the study does not take sufficient account of the implementation of the Knowledge Promise. I also expect that the respective parties might even go into detail and elaborate on their additional comments. Although the Ministry points out that the Knowledge Commitment is the most important response to the challenges in Norwegian school, and that the main objective of the reform is to improve the school's prerequisites for providing individual students with customised training, I believe, as the rapporteur, that several of the findings of the study include: should influence further work on the Knowledge Lift. A key prerequisite for providing an individual with a good learning outcomes is that the student has access to appropriate learning material. This is why it is important to clarify this with the school owners around the country. Competence in the use and availability of adapted learning material is a very important prerequisite for success in a good learning outcome in each school. School management must ensure an overall perspective in this field, i.e. to see the relationship between method, material and plan development. Students without special education, but with the need for additional help, are particularly vulnerable. It is therefore very important that the State and the municipality pay attention to this risk group, as the Riksrevision also points out. A good example of just such attention may be to follow a recent advice from the Dyslexia Association in Norway that more concrete demands need to be made to school owners to prioritize teacher empowerment for appropriate training, and that the country must exercise more risk-based supervision as early as next year. Such supervision will quickly reveal the time between the adoption of a single decision and the development of individual training plans. It is also important to look at how school owners handle care messages from parents and others. The national audit is also clear in this field, and here important and correct steps can be taken quickly where this is not working properly. The Committee is critical that many schools do not assess whether education is well organised to achieve the objectives of training as required. The study also shows that there is limited supervision of the implementation of the key provisions of the Training Act. The Committee shares the Riksrevision's view that supervision of single schools must be given priority as a complement to system-based supervision. The Committee stresses the responsibility of the Ministry for the establishment of supervisory systems and for ensuring that the legislation is not unclear. In other words, there are several things that can be improved if one is to have the desired effect of the promise of knowledge and its objectives. Of a net annual work of 1687,5 hours, 44 are taught. in primary school. The rest of the annual work and working hours are divided between time at school and time when teachers have free time. It is possible that counting teachers' different hours and minutes in this way to push them into a work plan creates unnecessary bureaucracy without providing students with better learning outcomes. It is as far as I have learned, broad agreement in all environments that good school management is crucial. School owners, school leaders and teachers all want a development of the school through the focus on pedagogics and education. If there are better opportunities to lead and develop the school, this will produce positive, long-term effects. Furthermore, it is appropriate to consider whether and how the country's 4000 principals can be given greater scope for the management of teaching resources. This is likely to contribute to a more positive implementation of the promise of knowledge. Management is at the heart of community action in schools, and it needs to be given great importance to the development of the school. The promise of knowledge requires good school leaders and school owners. They must be development-oriented, and they must work systematically to develop the school in practice. The Committee points out that Norwegian teachers are important resource people when developing expertise and new training methods. That the teacher is important for learning outcomes is obvious. Therefore, it is important that the Government will give priority to increasing teacher density and that children’s pupils receive more hours and more education. An overall committee believes that there will be a need for a thorough study of primary school training once the Knowledge promise has been effective for some time. Finally, although this is obvious, I would like to point out that the implementation of the Knowledge Lift will have to be successful, disabled students have to be guaranteed the appropriate means of learning they need at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e489	If the Norwegian objective of becoming a major knowledge exporter in the world is ever to be met, it is a prerequisite that our children are given optimal learning conditions in primary school. There is, at good and bad, much of the basis for learning interest. If primary school training fails our hopeful ones, many will never be able to recover the lost. It is therefore essential to maintain a strong and uninterrupted political focus on how primary school can improve. The National Audit Office's report shows us that there's a good deal left before we can claim that we're on the right track. The study is actually conducted just in advance of the phase-in phase of the Knowledge promise, but it illustrates in an excellent way what challenges we are actually going to face. One does not change the size of the challenges by saying that we have a reform that this house believes will meet most challenges. Can the promise of knowledge not be meant to be anything but a step in the right direction? The establishment and construction of the world's best primary school will have a significantly greater scope than the promise of knowledge. It is essential that the school is better done for every single day that goes, and we cannot lean back and wait for the promise of knowledge to be fulfilled, and then measure the effect of it. If successful, in the sense of improving student outcomes, one will have lost to not having made further improvements along the way. Anyway, we can't settle down, but we still have to fight out an even better school. The question is whether we should continue development along the way or wait for a generation of adequate empirical evidence. The world is changing rapidly, and there is hardly anything that serves to be static, especially in the education sector. The national audit is very critical of a number of issues at Norwegian primary school. We have noticed that from all the political groups over the decades, it has been claimed that the school should be one of the foremost priority political tasks, but yet the Riksrevision reveals a lack of government knowledge, lack of state control, lack of appropriations and lack of follow-up. It was even claimed that part of primary school training is at the level of soundness. The school resource situation is very tight, and about half of the principals show that they are close to a minimum level of training. We note that, on a number of occasions, the Minister of Knowledge has claimed that the school is now being allocated more resources through the increased allocation of the Storting to the municipal sector. As I understand it, the Minister of Knowledge has claimed that increased resources for the local government sector are important in order to increase teacher's density in Norwegian school. However, in its response to the National Audit Office, the same Council of State claims that there is no basis for claiming that the teacher’s density plays a decisive role in the quality of training. The Progress Party agrees with the Ministry that there are a number of factors that affect the quality of training, not just teacher density. It's interesting to note this change in the ministry's approach. Clearly, it is important that teachers are professionally up-to-date and motivated to give future generations a knowledgeable insight into parts of life’s journey. It must be taken into account that this is also important for the teacher’s ability to adapt training to the individual student’s needs. However, continuing training is necessary in order to put adapted training into practice. I experience that the Minister of Knowledge, in his reply to the Riksrevision, largely endorses such a view. It is therefore remarkable that the government parties went against all the opposition proposals at the Innst. S. No 15 for 2006-2007, which affected differently the need to update existing teaching forces. So the government claims that it understands the issue, but the government parties are voting against proposals to improve the situation. The Party considers that it is necessary to consider how clear and objective training requirements can be set in primary school. We believe it is unfortunate that the county officials have been assigned to the inspection authority for each primary school, as the National Audit Office report reveals that the school is under systematic supervision. The Progress Party envisages a national quality body in accordance with the NOCUT model that can independently control the quality of primary school and follow-up of central law and regulation. We will develop clear quality requirements and thus contribute to better compliance of students with their right to training. At the same time, the Progress Party will improve the funding system so that schools do not experience the poverty they experience to a large extent today. We want to put in place a funding scheme with direct, differentiated unit-price financing for each school, based on student numbers. The differentiation will, of course, have to take account of the needs of each student. We therefore believe that a follow-up reform is necessary after the Knowledge Promise, where a more comprehensive quality focus and funding change is being carried out. We see, however, that it seems so far to be difficult to get enough excitement for it in this room, but of course it can change. Towards the end, I would like to point out that the Progress Party feels that the Riksrevision's study of primary school training is a well-worked control document with a sufficiently empirical basis – which was right to transmit to the Stortinget. If this type of information is not sent to Stortinget as a matter of its own, the list of cases from the National Audit Office will be too high. I think it's important to point out that ratio, because it was this one's in the Riksrevision at this point. Finally, it is likely that the implementation of the Knowledge Promise will help to improve some of the aspects of the report. However, it is legitimate to assume that despite the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, one will have major challenges in Norwegian primary schools. Therefore, we must not get hurt in order to await the situation, but continue to collect ongoing information, in-flight corrections of measures and supplementing with new measures as often as necessary. In this respect, it is interesting to note the rapporteur's observation that the knowledge reform must be under constant development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e510	The case rapporteur stated that there was broad agreement on most points in the setting. It might mean that you didn't have to say that much in addition. Nevertheless, I will allow myself from the Christian People's Party to make a few comments. School Norway is changing, as we know, and we are only at the beginning of the introduction of the new school reform, the Knowledge promise. The reform will be a real boost for students and teachers and for the level of knowledge at school. We're going to get an even better school than we've had. We have to stand together to fight to realize this. The administrative audit of the National Audit Office on primary school training needs to be viewed in the light of this. It's kind of a study of the past. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: explain the extent to which the prerequisites for adequate training are present at school and the knowledge of the school owners and the department in relation to their ability to assess whether schools have a sound training offer. It is of concern when the studies show that the provision of training at many schools is unsatisfactory and that students in need of additional assistance are particularly at risk. And it is also critical that it may seem that neither departments nor municipalities have had good enough procedures and systems to have sufficient knowledge of the training offered. At the same time, this is probably not new. The evaluation of Reform 97 showed, inter alia: that we had failed to realize the ideal of training adapted to each individual student. There were large and systematic differences in learning outcomes and a disproportionately high proportion of pupils acquired for poor basic skills. This was part of the back cover of the Knowledge Lift. It is important now that the promise of knowledge helps to address the challenges that have long been seen in school. One of the main objectives of the reform is to contribute to ensuring adapted training for all students. The reform therefore faces many of the challenges that the Riksrevision has addressed and that have also been highlighted by previous speakers. Competitive and committed teachers are essential for the academic development of the students and for the school to be a good knowledge arena. The knowledge and skills of teachers are therefore also essential for providing pupils with adapted education. The effort to build skills for teachers started by the Bondevik II government will improve the ability of teachers to provide pupils with professionally adapted training based on individual students. The skill level now being implemented is an investment in teachers — and thus in a better school. A good school is a knowledgeable school, but at the same time a school where all students are given the opportunity to develop their skills and facilities. The promise of knowledge has objectives and visions for the future school that, if successful, will improve the conditions of the National Audit Office. Now it is important that the reform is implemented and will work for a few years. However, there may be a need for thorough studies of primary education when the reform has worked somewhat over time, which has also been pointed out by previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e531	I do not think this management report invites a broad and comprehensive debate on Norwegian school. The representative of Anundsen's posts could in a way give an impression of it, but let me say it this way: there is nothing in this management report that I don't think has been previously known from the work on the paper in bulk and in government. So what it gives us from new learning, I'm something in doubt about. I am also in doubt as to whether the timing of such a report is particularly appropriate. I agree with the representative, Anundsen, that one should not wait for generations to have obtained sufficient empathy, but it might have been interesting if this report had been issued at a time when the promise of knowledge was about to be implemented, so that implementation methods could have been looked at. The report emphasises very much the need for control. I have some doubts as to whether, if I had been the one to give priority, I would have prioritised the massive upgrade of the department, county and school director's control activities in relation to putting resources into – don't misunderstand the expression – to sell the Knowledge promise as the very attractive package it is for the school community. My impression is that the school community is prepared to use the Knowledge promise, use the training opportunities and the reform options in it. There's a rush in school to do something. In this way, I do not think I would have made a strong commitment – not at first, at least – to control measures. Another thing is whether the need for knowledge in school also creates a need for knowledge about school, for example. publicity around grades, which make it possible to compare schools. The Oslo experience is good in that kind of publicity. But I record that whether there is a major political disagreement between the present and the former government parties. I'm not going to elaborate on it any more. I am therefore in doubt whether this management report gives us knowledge that influences the implementation of the Knowledge promise, if it gives us knowledge that was not already there. When you read the answers from the department — under two different governments — they are full of knowledge about the knowledge that the management report gives us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e550	A few comments on a document that I actually thought would serve a better purpose than to be annexed to the protocol: Extensive research has been carried out that provides a basis for putting the search light on what appropriate training really means. Adapted training, the fact that each individual student is set up and followed up, is one of the most important prevention activities that can be done for children and young people. Early awareness of any learning difficulties that cannot be defined as so extensive that special education is needed, the introduction of measures that can actually act as prevention even during leisure time, where cooperation is good with the individual home, where I believe there is a great gain in both future educational and vocational choices and adult life. I thought it was worrying when I read that 19 pst. by the Vice-Chancellors in the 2003–04 school year did not make any estimates and did not have an overview of the number of elephants in their own schools who needed custom training in addition to special education. Fortunately, it was 81 pst. Which had such an overview, but it was 19 pst. who didn't. The Committee argued that the Knowledge Lift would meet many of the challenges pointed out by the Riksrevision. The same will also be true of a significantly strengthened local economy. It provides greater opportunities to strengthen different aspects of life in individual schools. But I hope that the Council of State in its contact with the municipalities and Skule-Noreg also points to the simple but perceptive fact that there must be a commitment to getting a better school that all the Vice-Chancellors have an overview of which students at their own schools need to adapt their training. In fact, I found this report to be a new recording – by others – that tells me that if you want to have customized training for each individual student, there can be no single price financing that is the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e563	Let me relate a few comments to the challenges that have arisen, and to the report of the National Audit Office, which I have, of course, read with great interest, and also to the Committee's comments, which give important points in many important areas. This is the case, as several speakers have pointed out, that this report is somewhat back in time. In retrospect, substantial changes have been made in Norwegian schools, not least in connection with the Knowledge promise, which continues under our government with renewed force. So hopefully we'll see that some of the important points that have been made have also been taken care of. Then it is also the case, as the representative Kleppa pointed out, that the municipalities have received a significantly strengthened economy. It will, of course, make it easier to facilitate adapted education, as long as the level of knowledge is present. It is important to note that, as school owners and school managers, there is an obligation and responsibility to have an overview of the situation in each classroom and in each school. We have underlined in letters to the statesmen the supervision, and not least this with enhanced supervision, which is necessary to ensure that this piece is taken care of. We are now in the middle of the greatest level of competence for Norwegian teachers. Next year we'll spend well over $1 billion on this, and a whole $375 million. kr goes directly to further training of teachers. That means we spend a lot of money. It is absolutely necessary to enhance the quality and competence of schools. It will also be able to respond to some of the challenges presented in the report. Let me also make the final point that on Friday, on the Council of State, we promoted the big message '... and no one was left', which is precisely what is the main thrust of both the report and the Committee's consideration, namely to facilitate the success and mastering of each student. That responsibility must be taken all the way from the smallest classes. The message states that we want to strengthen education for the smallest. Early effort is a very important key word for more children to succeed in school – not waiting and seeing, but taking things early, not least in developing Norwegian. You have to master Norwegian language to succeed in school. I have noticed what has been said. Of course, we have to follow up on this in the best possible way, but we think that a lot of things have already been done that point in the right direction. We hope that means that Norwegian school after this appears to be even better. Norwegian school is very good. Let me just conclude by saying that the answer to this is more of what we have today: a whole new funding system for the school. Sending children around the city with a check is probably the opposite of the answer to this. It will only lead to even greater differentiation and difficulties in school and not allow adapted education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e580	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e596	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e605	Storting consented to the treatment of St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 3 for 2004-2005, future radio link for emergency and emergency seats, and budget entry. S. No 4 for 2004-2005, in which the Ministry of Justice and Police in 2005 was able to obtain offers for the establishment of a common digital radio link for emergency and emergency situations and to conclude contracts for the first extension area – in the police districts of Follo, Rome, Oslo, Asker and Bærum, Søndre Buskerud and Østfold – and to obtain offers from the supplier for expansion in the rest of the country. The Stoltenberg government has followed up this work. The government promotes through St.prp. No 30 for 2006-2007 proposals to launch the first deployment phase of the new digital emergency network and to request an amended mandate for two reasons: Negotiations to obtain a favourable price for the country took longer than foreseen and therefore could not be concluded in 2005 as foreseen. Although the outcome of the negotiations shows that a nationwide expansion could take place within the stated cost framework of NOK 3.6 billion, the cost of the procurement process and the development of the first step is approximately 300 million. kr higher than that estimated in 2004. The change in the cost picture will have a budgetary impact only in 2008. In St. prp. No 30 for 2006-2007 the Government of the process so far. The choice of supplier took approximately eight months longer than planned, mainly due to an extended offer time and more demanding competition than expected. On 25 September 2006, the Emergency Network Project presented its submission on the preferred supplier for the emergency network delivery. In November 2006, the Government decided to continue with Siemens AS. Siemens AS is based on TETRA technology from Motorola. The Committee is aware that most European countries have now either realised or have begun to implement nationwide digital emergency networks based on TETRA or TETRAPOL, and that these are the two technologies recommended for emergency Schengen cooperation. In the first stage of development, it is estimated that the number of user groups is limited to the emergency budgets and a few smaller user groups. The Committee is pleased that other potential user groups, such as: voluntary organisations shall be given the opportunity to use the emergency network on a permanent basis as soon as the decision on a continuation has been taken in the rest of the country. The same user price is added across the country, although real development and operational costs vary considerably because of geography and population density. The first stage of development, consisting of 54 municipalities in the east, shall be completed and ready for operational use in emergency situations about one year after the signature of the contract. An evaluation break is planned in line with the St.prp decision. No 1 Appendix No 3 for 2004-2005 following the first stage of development, which shall provide sufficient basis for an assessment of further development in the context of the 2009 budget review. The Committee considers that the evaluation is carried out in such a way that the costs and risks associated with the duration of the break become acceptable. The Government has assessed current forms of organisation and has decided to establish an ordinary administrative body to own and operate the new network, inter alia. ensuring political governance and control of the body. The Committee considers that it will be established as soon as practicable and before the start of the investment. The Committee is pleased that the emergency network will provide a clear improvement in the liaison conditions for emergency situations. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the cost framework is based on the start of development in January 2007. If the start time has to be shifted, this will entail additional costs for the project organisation. The cost framework is also based on a position to be taken on development in the rest of the country in connection with the treatment of the 2009 State budget. The Committee is aware that the offer expires on 31 January 2007 and that there is a need for a rapid examination in the Grand Duchy. The majority in the Committee have shown an understanding of this and will stress the importance of speeding up the development process. The Progress Party has its own comments and a separate proposal in the case. Furthermore, the Committee has no comments and refers to the proposition and recommends that the Storting join the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e647	First, I have to say that we are very pleased that we are now launching the first stage of development of the new emergency network. The progress party has been impatient and asked several times about the matter. We are committed to ensuring that we now establish a new emergency network in Norway that not only provides good communication within the individual emergency situation, but also allows the various emergency situations to communicate with each other in a good way. This is essential in order to ensure an effective and good response to different crisis situations — in the event of accidents, disasters and other situations in which communication across the boundaries of the institution is crucial. The terrorist attack on the World Trade Center clearly showed how important it is to have a good emergency network that works between the various emergency situations. Here it turned out, unfortunately, that you did not have a good enough connection, which helped to ensure that you couldn't deliver the optimal effort, while some important information did not come out to all the effort forces who did a job in the building. I would like to stress strongly that the Progress Party is committed to ensuring the launch of the new emergency network, and that it will do so as soon as possible. Nevertheless, we would point out that when you choose to run the case through the Stortingen in 14 days, there is very little room for Stortingen to carry out a good and sound procedure on such a complex and important matter. We are also concerned about the lack of respect for a proper and good procedure that we experience from the Government in this regard to Stortinget regarding the phase-in of the new emergency network. We therefore assume that this is an exception due to very special circumstances, and that this will not be the government's work towards the Storting in the future. The expansion will cost NOK 3.6 billion. We believe that when dealing with such a major and important issue, it should be time to be able to hold consultations to ensure that all relevant hearing bodies would have the opportunity to present their views in relation to the proposal. I would also like to point out that we in the Progress Party have previously stated that we are critical of whether the technology that is now at the root of the creation of the new digital network meets both the current and the future needs of a new emergency network. The Progress Party has always been concerned with the need for technology to be able to transfer both image, video, sound and data capacity at the same time or in different combinations when setting up the new emergency network. I would therefore like to point out that the head of the emergency network has now confirmed that from 2009 the capacity of the network will be increased to 163 kB. We think that is very good and a clear step in the right direction to ensure that we can transfer both image, video, audio and data capacity when the upgrading of the upgraded standard comes in 2009. We also want to point out that the proposition can be seen as if the assumption that emergency networks are to be established throughout the country is no longer as clear. We assume that phase-in across the country is fixed, and that this will be done in accordance with the previously adopted Progress Plan of the Storting. We also assume that an expansion across the country will take place as soon as possible. We would also like to point out that there is a need for a rapid and good evaluation as soon as possible after the first phase of development has been completed. We would point out that the optimum would have been a parallel evaluation, and hope that the Council of State will assess whether a parallel assessment can also be launched to prevent delays in implementation across the country. In this context, we will also allow ourselves to point out that further development must take place as quickly as possible and that the time between phases must be as short as possible to prevent increased extra costs. The Progress Party assumes that any increase in operating costs in excess of current expenditure of a total of 270 million. kr for the use of the emergency network shall be financed by additional appropriations, in order to ensure that the introduction of the new emergency network does not affect the rest of the normal operation of the emergency budget. We would also like to point out that we assume that the new emergency network will have a significantly better offer, thereby improving the safety of the population and staff in emergency situations. I would therefore like to refer again to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e666	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e669	First, I would like to refer to the thorough examination of the rapporteur of the joint comments of the Committee on Transport. This is a matter that has now been under work for some years. I had the pleasure of running the Justice Committee last time, and there was a lot of talk about emergency networks. I recognize several faces in the diplomat lodge here that today are certainly very pleased that we can now start working on a new emergency network. I'm very happy about that, too. I would like to stress that the choice of technology and the choice of supplier is, of course, the responsibility of the Government and the emergency network project. But when that is said, I would like to say that I believe that we can now have a long-term emergency network that Norway needs. It's a very difficult project that we're going to adopt today's first step, but it's absolutely necessary. It's a big economic boost, but it's bad news for criminals. Too many people have had a hobby listening to the police radio over the years. A few years ago, a local radio on a police radio website was posted online in different parts of the country. A court decided it was totally okay. It goes without saying that if you're going to have a working connection in the police and between the emergency situations, it's hopeless if this is to lie out for snooping for everyone, it's curious press people or criminals who want to know what's going on. It was pointed out that an encrypted secure connection was required. That was an enormous need. After this was permitted on the network, the Data Protection Authority requested the encryption of the connection, but granted a derogation in the event of the introduction of a new emergency network. Now the emergency network in Eastern Europe comes first, and the right is concerned that the break before we go further in relation to evaluation, etc. do not become too long. It would be too stupid if the rest of the country were to sit without a functioning emergency network. We know that in other parts of the country the need for new emergency networks is even greater than in many central states of the East. The whole country needs a new emergency contact as soon as possible. So now the emergency situations are going to have an opportunity and at the same time a big challenge. The possibility is to communicate on the same network, which will be particularly useful for major accidents, possible terrorist acts and other serious crimes. The challenge is to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the interaction network. Here, there's still a lot of work done. It's actually now the work starts. In Søndre Buskerud police districts – or in the lower part of Buskerud, as I like to call it – there has been an exciting work where police, fire services and health services have investigated the possibility of co-location of emergency facilities. The premises are ready in the Avinor control centre in the smoking area. In the mountain area where Norway is safest. It's even atomicly safe and secure against electromagnetic pulses. Last week the representative Elisabeth Aspaker asked Minister of Justice Storberget if he would facilitate the further development of this work and bring together police, ambulance and fire services centres into one public centre in the region. The answer was disappointing and surprising defensive from an otherwise offensive state council. The police department has blackened that a person would like to co-locate in the police house, and the health department believes that it may be okay to co-locate, but preferably at the hospital. It is this thinking that is the problem when we are now going to have a common emergency contact in Norway. If it is not possible to make people think again, and it is not possible to exploit the resources that are now being made available through an emergency network of NOK 3-4 billion, I am very disappointed. There are other countries where one has common emergency centres and one emergency number. Many have seen it on TV – 911 is a term. From the Right, we expect the departments concerned to now speed up their work, put their skills in the stable, and intensify their efforts to benefit fully from the huge investment that will be a new emergency network. The objective must be a common emergency centre, a common emergency number and optimum use of the large resources deployed by society. Only then do we have an emergency network that can be optimally exploited. Nevertheless, this is a joyous day for emergency situations, and an important day to strengthen social security and preparedness in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e686	As the previous speaker said, this is a great day for the 25 000 people in our three emergency situations who daily face danger by taking care of the community's interests. Today, the majority finally decides to start the first construction step of a new common radio connection and to expand as quickly as possible to the whole country – probably one of the largest Christmas Presangs this year, with a total price tag of NOK 3.6 billion. It has been working for a long time to replace the old analogues of police, fire services and health services. There is currently limited scope for communication between departments and between different geographical areas within each establishment. A new digital radio connection will change this setting. The goal is a nationwide link that can address any communication needs for the emergency budgets when they need it, where they need it. This case has been speeding up within the Committee, but then it should be stressed that the case has had a thorough examination in the past, and major development decisions are already in place. We don't have time or money for any further delays. The cost framework is based on the start of development in January 2007. If the start time had to be shifted, this would entail additional costs. The Christian People's Party supports the relatively rapid procedure, and the Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a decision. What is important in this matter is the following: Step 1 must be followed as soon as possible by step 2. The whole country, not just the East, should have a new emergency network.A long break between step 1 and step 2 means risk and risk of increased expenditure. The evaluation must be carried out in such a way as to minimise the costs and risks associated with the duration of the break. The Christian People's Party believes that it is imperative to point out the need for a new common relationship for the emergency situation. Today, police, fire services and health services have limited opportunities for communication between departments and between different geographical areas within each establishment. Today's analogue radio connection is not listening-proof. It is easy to intercept communication with reasonable equipment, which has now become legal. It worries us all that the anti-crime work is being complicated, and that privacy is being threatened by this. The Christian People's Party sees that starting the deployment of the emergency network in the most populous areas of the country can provide both increased profitability and increased social security. The size has on several occasions pointed to the need to focus on high population density, social critical infrastructure and areas with a high share of crime. Therefore, a district politician also realises that it makes sense that the first stage of construction includes 54 municipalities in the central eastern region, but the continuation must come quickly and without unnecessary delay. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that the 2008 evaluation break will be short, so that costs will be kept as low as possible, and that the rest of the country will be included in the emergency network as soon as possible. Modern radio communications are an essential input, either in the face of organised crime or in the management of major accidents and complex rescue operations. At the same time, a comprehensive transition from analogue to digital technology provides a historic opportunity to bring everyone together in a common communication network for the emergency and emergency seats. The matter has been discussed and dealt with on a number of occasions and is now over-mature to be put to life. The requirement of data protection to ensure a radio link to listening speeds up the development process. An overall committee believes that the fastest possible deployment of a nationwide emergency network will provide a permanent solution for information security. An overall committee believes that voluntary organisations are an integral part of the Norwegian rescue service and that public emergency services depend on their resources. Voluntary organisations rely on a good relationship to be an effective and good partner for the public emergency and emergency seats. Necessary funds for investment in new interconnectors will be an economic burden on organisations, which will once again go beyond their activities. This must be emphasised during the deployment phase. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of making radios available to voluntary organisations so that they can participate in the evaluation of the first development round. Finally, the emergency network shall be operated under public control to ensure social security. Critical infrastructure is of major social importance. Dealing with crises and disasters is the responsibility of emergency and emergency missions, therefore this effort is now being made. A governmental administrative body will own and operate the new emergency network and its responsibilities for the interconnector infrastructure will lapse. Many liaison officers will now be able to enjoy this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e720	I'll be brief in this debate, because it's almost an overall committee that's behind the vote. The left is pleased that the Stoltenberg government has chosen to follow up the Bondevik II government’s proposal to launch the first construction step of a new digital emergency network. In work with St.prp. No 30 for 2006-2007 in the Committee, it has been important for the Left to stress that the need for a new emergency network is present across the country. I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Irene Johansen, for the good work and cooperation in this matter. It is therefore important to ensure that the whole country has a new emergency network as soon as possible. There have been several mentions here today. Left will be a driver for just this happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e729	Then it is Trond Giske, who is positive and steps in for Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete, who is stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e732	I am the Council of State for the Minister of Justice, and that is why I am taking part in this debate and have also dealt with the matter. The size decided in 2004 to introduce a new digital emergency network. The government now comes back with the case to ask for an adjustment of the mandate that was then granted. Negotiations have shown that start-up costs are higher than stipulated, but the total envelope of 3.6 billion in 2004 will be kept. The Government therefore promoted a roll-out proposal for the launch of the first phase of deployment of the new digital emergency network. In its proposal, the Ministry of Justice proposes to conclude a contract for the provision of new digital emergency network for the launch of the deployment of a first development area within a cost framework of 900 million. kr. It is also proposed to enter into a supply contract for the development of the rest of the country, subject to the fact that nationwide development is not initiated until the first stage evaluation has been completed and the Stortinget has decided to further develop. This is one of the biggest efforts of the Government to implement social security and preparedness, and is an absolutely necessary measure to provide the emergency and preparedness seats with a timely and effective tool that enables them to carry out the vital tasks on which we all depend. It is very good that Storting has dealt with this matter so quickly. Of course, it is not a desirable situation to have such a short period of time, but at the same time all the essential issues surrounding the emergency network have been addressed in the Stortinget in the past. So it's this phase shift between the first and second construction steps that made it necessary to take the matter up again in Stortinget. At the same time, it is important to get a decision on the matter, so that we get started. Fire services, health services and police today have separate radio connections based on old analogue technology. Today's radio connection meets little operational and safety requirements, and spare parts are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain. The Health Minister has pointed out that today’s health radio network is based on the country’s first manual mobile network, which was put into operation in 1966. Infringements in this context may lead to dangerous misunderstandings and, together with a lack of security of detoxification, constitute a serious obstacle to crime prevention. The Ministry of Justice initiated the acquisition process immediately after the previous proceedings in the Stortinget in December 2004. User involvement has been very important, and representatives from the police, fire services and health services have participated in the Ministry of Justice’s project organisation. The user requirements of core users have been the leader in the choice of solution. Major user involvement is considered to be an important risk mitigation measure in the project. The process until the choice of supplier has taken a longer period of time, mainly due to the extension of the offer time and more demanding competition than expected. Good competition has resulted in the purchase of nationwide networks being made within the cost framework of NOK 3.6 billion previously established, but with a slightly more expensive first stage of development. Following lengthy negotiations and extensive evaluation of the offers, the offer from Siemens AS appeared to be the most favourable overall for the State, technically and economically. The contract has a fixed price and gives the supplier total responsibility for the development and includes in addition a long-term operating and maintenance agreement. Mechanisms have been put in place to ensure a good price over time. The new emergency network will be based on TETRA technology. User equipment for the core users of fire services, health services and police is included in the acquisition. Based on the negotiated result, we assume that the first step should be possible within a cost framework of 900 million. kr. The cost framework is based on the start of development in January 2007, and the Stortinget will later be able to decide on the development of the rest of the country. The establishment of a new common listening-free radio connection for emergency and emergency seats shall ensure that the radio connection of the stations complies with operational and safety requirements. In case of nationwide deployment, the emergency network will cover about 80 pst. the area of the country. The rapporteur described in an excellent manner the area of the first stage of development. A total of 10000 radio terminals in the first development area are provided for the acquisition of a significant project in itself. At the same time, it is important that other parts of society benefit from the emergency network. We're concerned that we get a lot of users, and that we also include volunteering in a good way, as part of the auxiliaries we have. We will carry out an evaluation during the development period. We are concerned that the evaluation break will be as short as possible, but at the same time it will have to be long enough for us to have a good enough evaluation. It is also about controlling costs. We hope that a completed emergency network will be in place during 2011. In consultation with the relevant actors, we have decided to establish an ordinary administrative body responsible for the new emergency network. The most important thing in terms of organisational choice is the need for the possibility of tight political governance and control of the body and it will be established as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e770	I could imagine that the Council of State might say a little about how much a reduction and construction of the emergency organisation will cost the year to evaluate the scheme. Does the Council also believe that the proposed number of base stations will be sufficient to ensure full deployment of the emergency network throughout the country? In this respect, I can refer to Switzerland, where you had a relatively low cost estimate, but ended up with a nearly twice as expensive solution as you initially predicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e777	It is always difficult to estimate the exact costs of such a large development project. But we've had external companies look at all sorts of risk mitigation measures. The contract is also designed in such a way that we try to reduce the risk of the state. The fact that we build in two steps, we also do ours. The representative was concerned about this evaluation break. I think the cost of not taking the time to evaluate along the way will be far greater than doing a real job along the way and with such a break. We believe that the number of masters being expanded, and the coverage should be sufficient. But there are also such things that you find out in the first period when you get tested out the system in a limited area. We believe that we have set up a race that at least reduces the possibility of overshooting as much as possible in a project as large as we are faced with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e784	The proposition refers to the fact that Siemens AS is now being commissioned to build the new emergency network. At the same time, it is noted that the Siemens Group has been subject to scrutiny in relation to ICT contracts for the Defence – Dalseide Committee. Is the Council confident that this will not be a problem in the future? That's the one question. The second question concerns what I addressed in my article, namely the further exploitation of the synergies that lie in an emergency network. Does the Government intend to proceed in the case of a common emergency number, common emergency centres? Or will it now be up to the agencies themselves to continue as today, but with a new and more modern web?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e793	To address the question of Siemens first, it is never a particularly pleasant situation to have a contract counterparty in the situation in which Siemens is. We also have experience with the Defense, where there are serious issues that have been revealed. We have not found that the facts that we know today provide a basis for rejecting Siemens as a partner. But of course, we will be alert as to how this contract is performed, and also as to any other things that are revealed that may have implications for the state's relationship with Siemens. I can't say about that today, but it is clear that it is important to be aware of this. Then there was the question of a common emergency number: now I am the emergency contact board. The common emergency number is not part of the case complex here. It is a matter which will be assessed separately and at a later stage, and which I leave to the Minister of Justice to answer on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e802	It has taken eleven years to get here we are today, so there are several governments that have spent time on this matter. What is now important is to move forward quickly in a proper way. The consultant who has looked at the contract also warns against spending too much time on the evaluation. I assume that the Council of State has noticed that. It's two steps, but in the last step, there's five phases, so maybe there's a chance to support the momentum a little bit when you start with step 2 and the five different stages. I would like an assessment of that. And then we're talking about the addition of TEDS, which is going to make it possible to get a picture. It may be the most important part for many users of this emergency network. Are you sure that this technology will be available from 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e811	There is probably no political disagreement between the parties that when we first decide to deploy such an emergency network, it is important to get it in place as quickly as possible, but at the same time at a pace that ensures that we are constantly against 1. Exceedance of costs2. solutions that are not adequate for users; We're concerned that the break between step 1 and step 2 is going to be as short as possible, and of course we're also setting up systems to evaluate along the way. We're not sitting there and waiting to evaluate until we're done with step one. The other one was?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e827	TEDS – that's what technology is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e832	Yeah, the technology! We never know how technology evolves. In mobile and computer technology, we've seen in recent years that it's really a revolution all along. What we know is that very many other countries choose the same technology that we have chosen. In this sense, we think we're pretty safe on technology choices. At least there is an indication that there is something else that looks satisfactory, when so many countries choose TETRA as their solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e839	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e844	It may be bold to extend the debate in a day like this, but I think it's in place with a small remark, because the Progress Party is now developing it by riding two horses at a time, to a higher political art also in this matter. We hear that Mr. Bård Hoksrud, and to the extent that Mr. Arne Sortevik, in his lines to the Council of State, points out that they have been the proponents, that they are very pleased that this is now going to start, that they have been impatient for a long time, and that many have contributed to the fact that there has been a long time, but at the same time they are raising criticism, because they have only had two weeks to deal with the matter here in Stortinget. But this thing is pretty simple and transparent, because it's really just that you're shifting 300 million. kr from step 2 to step 1. It should be pretty easy to deal with it in 14 days – even here in the house. Technology has been chosen and the supplier has been chosen. So Hoksrud says in his post that this has gone quickly, and that the government almost shows disrespect for the Storting, because one has not had time to have hearings during the proceedings. But what in the world is that to hear? Who is to be consulted on a matter like this? If the Advance Party had got what they wanted, the matter would have been delayed. There had been a risk of new time-consuming negotiation rounds with the supplier, and then the Progress Party had even more to criticize everyone else for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e854	It was okay to answer the last question, so it was not left unanswered. It is true that the Progress Party is impatient, and that we have requested the matter several times. We believe that even with progress to enable user groups to present their views on consultation in the committee, the issue could be dealt with in the Stortinget ca. Tenth to fifteenth. January, without it likely to cause major complications in the matter. And to the question of who to hear: Of course, the organizations within the various emergency situations should have had the opportunity to come to the committee and present their views. In fact, some have asked some of them critical questions and have had some critical comments, as we think it would have been right and useful that the committee, as a committee, had become aware through a hearing. That's our background for the majority of us being able to show some flexibility and give us a little more time, so that we could have had a hearing at the beginning of January, and that we could have dealt with the matter in Stortinget at the very beginning of the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e863	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e879	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e895	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e911	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e927	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e944	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after each post, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e951	Things went a little fast before this, so I'm a little breathed. The proposition we are about to deal with now concerns the change in the state budget for the current year in various chapters administered by the Ministry of Justice and Police. There are especially two changes I would like to say a little bit about. The first amendment concerns the Mehamn accident. When Stortinget dealt with the matter in ours, a unanimous decision was made to establish a separate compensation scheme for the survivors after the tragic accident. A decision was also taken to set up a separate name to look at who would be covered by such a scheme and what amounts would be given. The study gave its setting to the ministry in October and later a fixed setting in which they recommend that 70 survivors be compensated for a total of 8.8 million. kr. The sum for each of them varies from 50 000 to 350 000 kroner, and this variation is due to a number of factors that have been assessed in the light of applications and interviews. I would also like to remind you that the background to establishing such a system in this case was that it would help to bring about peace in the matter, and that it was acknowledged that the handling of the matter by the administrative authorities failed to create a generally accepted explanation of the cause of the accident at an early enough time. It is precisely this time aspect that will now be compensated for, because it has contributed to an unnecessary extra load for the survivors. I hope that with this we can also help to calm the tragic accident that happened outside Gamvik on 11 March 1982. The second point I wanted to say a little bit about is the re-priorities that have led us to put some investment in place already under the Norwegian police budget of the year. In total, there has been an increase and a re-priority of about 44 million. kr. The police directorate is now using approx. Thirty million. to accelerate the purchase of pistols, which means that this investment is not charged to the individual police districts. This is good, when one knows how great the priorities of the police districts are. Space has also been found to invest in some communication control equipment and to strengthen the police security service on a combined basis. 11 million. kr. Finally, I would like to say that it is a unanimous committee that advises Stortinget to follow the setting in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e968	I must initially be allowed to say that I am pleased that the rest of the Justice Committee came to the Chamber. I was concerned for a moment that it was only myself and the Council of State in the hall. It was probably going well, but it might have gotten a little narrow. I think the case rapporteur has presented the position in this matter in an excellent way, with the sense of humor and with the necessary breaks along the way. There are two or three things that I think are important in this matter, which the case rapporteur was also concerned with. One and perhaps the most important is the Mehamn case, which is now probably approaching a final conclusion and conclusion for the Storting. At the same time, it is also the case that some of the relatives after the accident are not inexorably positive to the compensation proposed. I expect the Council of State to take along the signals and the recordings that are coming, and to make an assessment of them. And would there be a need for change in this area if things were to show up, I expect the Council of State to come back to the Stortinget and ask the Stortinge to take care of it. In my opinion, there have been some points that should definitely be looked at and evaluated after what has been proposed. Then, in an excellent way, the rapporteur has referred to re-priorities within the Directorate of Police. We also think that is very positive. I think it is good to assist and help so that the police can get the necessary protective equipment in place. In fact, some of us also view small arms as part of a necessary protective equipment. We have a everyday life that is sometimes very tough, and I think, as I have said here before, that we should expect Norwegian politicians to do the job, stand up and in a way be the protection for us others, they must feel that they have political support and the necessary tool to do their job in a proper and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e979	The issue here today concerns changes in the state budget for 2006, and it is positive that the Police Directorate, with its re-priorities, is now contributing to the follow-up by the Government to important demands of the Stortinget and priorities for the purchase of personal protective equipment for the Norwegian police force. The personal protective equipment is of great importance for the safety and security of each policeman and woman in their daily work. In the light of a crime trend in which organised crime intervenes and puts the police on an increasingly tough test with criminals who are willing to use all possible means, it is essential that we have a police force equipped to face this threat without putting them at undue risk. In recent years, we have seen a trend with ever more serious crime across borders. Internationally organised criminals have also expanded their activities to Norway, and Norwegian environments are inspired by methods used in other countries. At the same time, many of the traditional targets for quick money have contributed to increased security. We know that e.g. banks have invested in ever better security equipment and improved procedures, which means that it is no longer as much for criminals to be picked up using the old methods. In the wake of this, we are experiencing a trend towards increasingly brutal practices and means that criminals are willing to use to achieve their goals. The climate in the criminal section has become tougher and harder, and criminal environments sometimes use raw methods both to keep internal justice and to rival groups. The reconstructed shooting at Aker Brygge tells us that it is probably only a matter of time before this could hit innocents. At the same time, experience suggests, among others: from the NOKAS case, on a development where criminals are more likely to engage individuals who are able to dedicate them to security procedures and other sensitive business information. These developments call for the police force to meet these challenges. Society is totally dependent on motivated, competent and well-equipped policemen. If we expect the police to take up the fight against the most dangerous criminals, it cannot be on the equipment. The Norwegian people have a legitimate expectation that the police will meet the criminal environments offensively, to ensure the security of all of us. This is why it is positive when an additional commitment can be made in the current year to provide more timely, adequate and up-to-date equipment to the police and, as far as possible, to safety when they are to move out on behalf of society. On repeated occasions, the right has provided for the need for equipment to be put in place, while at the same time presupposing that the specific challenges of the Oslo Police District with regard to investment needs are also taken into account. I also point out that the Right in its 2007 alternative budget proposed to increase police operating expenditure by 45 million. This year's review of the revised national budget also suggested strengthening the police, enabling them to better combat organised crime and meet the special needs of the Oslo police in this important work. The right has always called for and sought to facilitate a society and a local environment in which everyone should be able to experience security and have confidence that the police have the necessary resources to ensure our common security. A prerequisite for this is that the police have real opportunities to be visible and present when the situation so requires. On the right, we ask that the government continue to have a keen eye on the police’s ability to fight crime effectively and, if necessary, to return with additional appropriations in the revised 2007 national budget, so that all police districts can quickly re-establish personal protective equipment. I do not feel convinced that the entire gun bill has been paid, and in addition, other equipment is waiting for upgrade and replacement. As mentioned above, it is positive that we are now getting an increase in the pace of renewing equipment for the police. At the same time, I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Directorate of Police has found such huge amounts of money available, all the time when Oslo police and the fight against organised crime have needed more money throughout 2006. I hope, therefore, that the knife has not been used too hard in the directorate, but that the Minister of Justice will also be able to find new fresh resources at the next crossroads, such as: The right added up to its alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e998	This is a re-priority within the 2006 budget year. It's a little strange to hear from the Right Representative, because the Right's proposal for the police budget was 100 million. kr under the proposal that was finally adopted, so that we did not choose to follow the previous government's prescription, make sure that we now actually have the opportunity to take the grip that we, among other things, have. do in the case of equipment. We stick to what we have promised in the Soria Moria Declaration in relation to increasing staffing in the Norwegian police, to do something about the equipment situation – and there we provide for this proposal – and also to do something about the reconciliation queues. I am glad that at the end of this year we actually see that we are able to do already in 2006 what we in the 2007 state budget promised to do in 2008 in respect of small arms. I share Ellingsen's view of the importance of upgrading the weapon situation for Norwegian police officers and women. It is definitely part of the protective equipment. Furthermore, we have the ambition to follow the plan we have announced in the past, that in the case of special protective vests and other protective equipment, we will take a large part of it within next year's budget framework. So to the representative Aspaker, who is concerned about the situation in Oslo. It's also the Government. We're very busy with it. But I ask the Right and the representative of Aspaker to note that those who lead the work in connection with recriminalism in Oslo, among others. maritime has indicated that it was now actually thought that sufficient funds were available to implement that project, and that, through interaction with the other police districts, with Økokrim and with Kripos, a grip has been taken in relation to the replay situation we had in Oslo, which is all reason to be excited about. This is then seen in the light of the fact that we are now actually in a situation where the percentage of clarification for the Norwegian police is increasing. They are within the procedure period in relation to the objectives set by the Stortinget, and we also see that the balances are built into the Police-Norway. That really means that in the next year we can spend a lot of time on, for example. to initiate the course that the Government has pointed out in terms of taking organised crime harder, while also having a major focus on violence and threats in close relations. All in all, I believe that we should be pleased that the Directorate of Police is actually finding funding for this investment, while the Government is proposing a supplement to the police that now allows me to make the investment that I perceive the Storting has asked for for quite a long time, and that at least this government, which I represent, has chosen to give so much priority that we provide it in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1011	What we are dealing with today is, of course, a reduction in the cost of incurred expenditure on the current year's budget that has not been entirely predictable. In this sense, it is not natural to go in and comment on many individual posts, because in many ways there is little policy in most posts. It's just an invasion to have a balance in the budget. I still want to comment at one level, and it's related to the Mehamn accident. As a Finnmarking, of course, I remember the accident back in March 1982, and the many ringing effects it has had in relation to the Finnmark community. There have been many reactions, and you have seen how the Storting has been in the picture at different times, also linked to resumption and investigation. I am also pleased that we had reduced a denominator that would look at compensation for the survivors. This includes 70 people who will be compensated. I have recorded in the media in Finnmark that there may be conclusions related to the subject that some of the survivors do not agree with. This also means that some of us have had contact with the deceased, where there have been some who have had expectations that in the Stortinge should be considered to be part of a review and, if necessary, a different decision relating to the amount of compensation. I have to say that initially it is understandable that those kinds of expectations could arise from some relatives if they believe that they have drawn unreasonable conclusions. At the same time, it is important to stress that the Storting is an entirely inappropriate body for that type of over-test of a name. It is true that when the person concerned goes into his or her work, you have the opportunity to do an interview with each person. One has the ability to monitor circumstances and look at the course over time in terms of how the individual has felt. You may have had to have others go in as parents for those you have lost, or someone may have developed a disease and needed treatment. At the moment that Stortinget had gone into and overestimated these relationships with some individuals, one would have come very quickly into the situation that there were other consequences that had not been overlooked, that would have created an imbalance, and that would have caused the Storting to start trying out other new things. Therefore, it is very difficult to see any other way of dealing with such a question than by leaving it to a name, where the premise is that you have either confidence in the work of the denominator or, if you don't have it, ask that either the name, or a new name, do a job again. The consequence of the last one would have been that the many people who are now getting compensation might have had to put it off, and then you had to have a completely new round. I think it's lucky that we can now also add this chapter related to the Mehamn accident, that the people who have been most affected are being compensated – it could always be a discussion about the amount of compensation – and that in this way we also have to set aside another chapter related to the Mehamn accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1024	I take the floor in this case because I was the case spokesperson for Mehamn-saka the last time, and because I perceive it so that in the Stortinget today a final sentence is seen. I was very pleased when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of a Consultant decided to establish a special remuneration scheme, and that the amount of the remuneration was to be determined by a separate denominator, which, in addition to the task of determining the amounts of remuneration, would also define who was to be covered by the scheme. The opinion of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs was precisely to give a discretionary consideration to the findings of the Board of Directors’ investigation of the accident over several decades. We also said that Mehamn-saka is special. We said that it is decisive that major accidents generally need to be investigated in a way that leads to such cases being much easier to close at an early stage. The Committee also considered that future remuneration cases should be channelled primarily through the judicial remedy system. I'm very pleased that the department quickly named the name that got this assignment, and that they also spent so little time, i.e. from June to October. I share with Ballo's assessment that it is possible to ask questions about different subjects' work. In the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, we have recorded that letters have now begun, because the matter was on the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I understand that the Justice Committee has considered the issues that have arisen, and that they have taken the view that it is really going to take a great deal of time to get the Committee to enter into and review what this name had been commissioned to do. I share that perception. I also record that the Judicial Committee has been consulted in its recommendation. I am outrageous at the representative of the Progress Party here who now seems to be urging the Council of State to take an additional round. So here's a co-conspirator's committee that has assessed the objections that have come so far and that have come with the advice of a co-ordinator. And then I'm going to assume that what was meant here, just to put a finite point, is going to be like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1039	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1595]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1055	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1066	I am very pleased that we in Stortinget today are going to treat St.meld. No 20 for 2005-2006 on alternative criminal responses for young offenders. The previous Judicial Committee asked the unanimous government to return with a big message on children and young people and punishment. Now the big message is here, and now the Right and the Advance Party will not deal with it. That's what I'm wondering. The majority carried out the hearing in this case on 19 October this year. So until that message comes to light, namely that there are a small number of children and young people committing criminal offences in Norway, mostly not particularly serious crimes. Under 5 pst. ever come in contact with the police for a criminal act. Putting children in prison with tanned criminals can often have a negative effect. It is important that young criminal sons with people around them have a clear view of what is right and wrong. We know it can be difficult in the ordinary prison. For this reason, the majority will reduce the use of prison for young people under 18 years of age, and we will find other measures that can prevent repetition, escape or loss of evidence without putting children in prison. Norwegian criminal proceedings have stressed that children should not be in prison. Criminal offenders, strict rules for the custody of young people and the increased use of alternative responses shall ensure that young people are not further destroyed by being imprisoned after committing criminal offences. In custody, prison is particularly worrying because of the lack of detection of custodial custodial guilt. In addition, the classification of goods is particularly burdensome because the custodian does not receive the same goods as the custodian. Few offers of school, treatment, community and leave are the characteristics of care. Norway also has clear obligations under the Children’s Convention relating to the use of prisons for children. The background is the recognition that children and young people are not fully able to understand the consequences of all their actions, and therefore cannot be fully held responsible. This does not mean that young offenders should avoid a response to criminal offences. The most important thing is that the reaction should be wiser, faster and better adapted to the individual youth. In exceptional cases, it is only possible to defend the imprisonment of young people under the age of 18. As far as possible, alternatives should be sought which can be of benefit to the child, while respecting the needs of society for protection. It is an objective to reduce the use of prison sentences against young offenders and to prevent relapses into new crime after the end of criminal proceedings. For this group, we should look around for other opportunities, such as increased use of community sanctions. In cases where unconditional imprisonment is necessary, the general rule shall be open settlement. We also need to emphasise that young people are in a development process. When children commit criminal offences, a rapid and correct response is essential. In my opinion, a good child protection service in cooperation with criminal services provides better opportunities for rehabilitation and behavioural change. I would like to remind you that there is already such cooperation today. There is reason to stress that there is no legislative change to the prohibition of arrest and custody of offenders under 16 years of age before there is an alternative to arrest and custody to ensure the safety of society. We don't want to create a system that gives a vacuum, so the police can't intervene with this group. At the same time, care is not a suitable instrument for these. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider developing child protection schemes for children under the age of 18 who commit crime; care-type measures that can prevent escape, recurrence or loss of evidence. We believe it should be considered whether or not to make mediation in conflict advice compulsory. The prosecution authority should be required to transfer cases to the conflict council when the perpetrator is under 18 years of age. This does not mean, however, that matters are automatically brought in for mediation, because mediation depends on the consent of the offended and the perpetrator. In this area, it is necessary to be able to come back with a more detailed definition of when conflict resolution could be used. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child provides special protection for children and young people under 18 years of age. Norway has clear obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child relating to the Use of Prison for Young People under 18. The government's view of the big news is firmly anchored in the Children's Convention. The Government follows up the order from Stortinget for a review of the situation of juvenile convictions under 18 years of age at the time of the submission and processing of this notification. In addition, we propose an even wider investigation of this complex and complex policy area. I am pleased that the Government will now set down a publicly appointed sample to assess the whole and the complexity of society's responses to young people who commit criminal acts. This requires knowledge-based action and focus on new and better solutions rather than a rather light debate on criminal lavalry. It will be part of the mandate of this sample to assess whether it may be useful to transform into a possible one-track system with a process where one or more reactions are identified at the same time for young offenders under 18 years of age. However, the requirement for a single-track system must be that measures under the Child Protection Act should not be regarded as a criminal reaction. The selection shall take into account, in the evaluation of proposals for alternative criminal responses, the foreign background of many of the children in prison and the specific needs of this group. The responsibilities of child protection for those under 18 years of age who will also need to be clarified in the future. Finally, I would also like to point out the importance of all parts of society doing more to follow up children who are at full speed out of the start blocks of a long criminal racetrack. Crime writer Gunnar Staalesen writes in a comment on the debate on children in prison in the newspaper and points out that putting them behind locks and hitting solves at least no problems. By quoting Varg Veum, he reflects on the total failure of the public vis-à-vis the children who may need the most help from society. He says, "Was this what we had made him? Was this the result of 25 years of public engagement to make him a new and better person, or at least secure him a place in society that both he and we could live with? Was this the best we could achieve, our only bid for success?" I think Varg Veum's observations give a real picture. Society can put forth more effort to improve the provision of young offenders. I think we can do more than today for a good child protection offer. We can prevent better, we can react faster and better, and we can rehabilitate better. Closer cooperation between criminal services and child protection should be developed. The Criminal Code and the Child Protection Act should be reviewed. We need to do more to further develop cooperation between child protection and the criminal justice system on the follow-up both before, during and after criminal proceedings. This question has led to debate. That's good. The children who are at all times sons in Norwegian prisons deserve it. Now we're going to have to wait for the public authority to work on the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1126	It is difficult to understand what is going on with this matter that is so urgent that it was not possible to carry out the investigation work that is now being announced, before the Government came to Stortinget. The Minister of Justice has presented a solution for young offenders who are partially suspended in loose air. Employees demonstrate that child protection has neither the necessary capacity nor competence — nor a law adapted to the follow-up of young offenders who qualify for custody and prison. Even worse, the message may not at all be a problem affecting the relationship with the other kids in child protection. Criminal custody is totally deterred. I would like to remind you that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is leading, but it is therefore no fascist in the case of young offenders and punishments. Does not the representative Magnusson Lydvo see that the government is offering a solution to which child protection is totally unprepared and which places child protection in a very unfortunate double role? Does the Labour Party really believe that it is right that ‘for the best’ should apply to the criminal children rather than to the other children in child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1135	The Labour Party believes that work with young prisoners requires a comprehensive effort and committed cooperation between the different sectors and the administration both before, during and after the implementation of custody and prison sentences. The Workers' Party supports the Government's proposals to develop procedures for parental, police, child protection, school, health care, courts and criminal services to cooperate when children and young people break the law. Personal surveys, individual levels and the establishment of mentoring systems shall be key elements in order to ensure the individual and holistic follow-up of young offenders, whether or not they should be in prison. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party believes that child protection should not be punishable. Furthermore, we believe that criminal action as a result of crime must be something other than a stay in child protection institutions, such as children. social sanctions, drug treatment, youth contracts and mediation in conflict councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1144	It is sparingly with comments from the majority of the Committee on this rather borderline communication on the relationship between young offenders and child protection in particular. It is a little worrying that the majority will adopt this position without particularly leading the majority to what form of reaction should actually take place for those between the ages of 15 and 18 when needed. The Government's proposal states: ‘If there is a need for imprisonment, the general rule shall be the use of prison surrogacy rather than imprisonment when it is less than 18 years of age. The government wants child protection institutions to be widely used as a prison surrogate.’ My question to the President-in-Office will then be: Does she really believe that today's child protection system is prepared to accept the kind of offenders we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1156	Today’s legislation provides for both custody, housing in child protection institutions and/or other criminal responses where measures under the Children’s Act are included. However, the purpose of measures and institutional positioning under the Children’s Act is different from the purpose of punishment, and child protection is not responsible for the implementation of penalties. Child protection is responsible for providing the best possible treatment for children and young people, measures in line with the best of the child and the needs of the child. The children’s protection institutions currently in existence are not designed for the most serious criminal youths, in order to provide for research or society’s need for security and protection. This applies both to the building mass as such and to the staff of the institutions. But we're using child-rescue institutions today that in a way that makes those young people who fit in there get a follow-up to what's best for children. That's exactly why we're now putting down a public sample to look at how child protection can take care of the few heaviest criminals who might not fit into the institutions we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1161	I have to say that the representative Lydvo had a slightly different goal than I am familiar with, so I would recommend that the government apparatus perhaps translate the answers to the next debate. Is the representative Magnusson Lydvo comfortable in adopting a reform before investigating it, that you have a kind of shooting first, asking for a follow-up principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1168	Then I just want to show that the previous judicial committee unanimously asked the government to come back with a separate case that would deal with young offenders. It did so in the spring of 2005, during the treatment of the General Criminal Code. Last summer, the crash message came. After a quick craft from the Government, the message is for processing in Stortinget. It's just to note that the other parties did not want treatment and to make comments about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1179	St.meld. No 20 on alternative criminal responses to young offenders are so serious that the notification should be treated better than it is today. The message raises some very important fundamental issues and questions, so this is going to be a debate on the totally wrong premises. If there had been a message with input and assessments from the relevant bodies, this could have been a constructive debate. Now it turns out that neither the Police Federation, the Child Protection Agency, the departments concerned, etc. has received St.meld. No 20 to the opinion. No one has seen it or heard of it. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is a pure overrun. We are missing the important input of these agencies into this message. What does it mean, for example? the protection of children to take responsibility for young criminals? Are they supposed to be some kind of prison surrogacy? What do they mean? What does the police think about young offenders not being arrested and imprisoned? There are a lot of important proposals that should have been sent to the interested parties for an opinion before the Stortinge case was brought to the attention. This is a poor preparation of the department, and the Progress Party wants to send the message back. We refer to the motion in the vote, from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ‘St. report. No 20 Alternative criminal responses to young offenders are sent back to the Government due to a lack of preparatory work.’ [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1193	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1198	My question to the representative is: How can the Progress Party say that the matter has not been dealt with well enough, a matter which a unanimous Justice Department in the last period asked the government to come back with? I quote: ‘The Committee asks the Ministry to present a separate case to the Stortinget as soon as possible on the settlement conditions for persons under 18 at the time of imprisonment.’ I wonder that the Progress Party will send back the message because of a lack of work. What has changed since last year's treatment of the general part of the penal code? And will this big message come as some surprise at the Progress Party? We have also had hearings on the issue in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1208	Many of these bodies, which were supposed to have been notified to the hearing, had not heard about the case at all – nor were they at the hearing. I think this is a pure overrun. You have a hurry, but maybe it's not because of a hurry. I think it's simply an overrun of all instances. We think this is so bad that the department should get the message back and do its work again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1213	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1216	With this big message, the government has bombed bad at the rate and lands, perhaps not so surprising, on the ball. From the Right, we believe that the government has closed its eyes to the criminal reality we are facing when it comes to the heaviest offenders under the age of 18. That is why the government has been harmed to administer the wrong medicine. It is alarming that central judicial authorities within the police have not received the notification for consultation. It may also seem that the Government has violated child protection. Mismedication is no joke, and I am therefore very disappointed by the lack of will the government parties have shown to go deeper into fundamental issues and provide a better decision-making basis for the Storting. In concrete terms, this means that the Storing is today to decide on key principles relating to the implementation of criminal sanctions for young offenders without having been thoroughly investigated in advance. On the contrary, the Government in this case has used the reverse approach: wholesale treatment first and public selection afterwards. There is an overall opposition that has reacted strongly to this matter being pressed through on the Stortinget without having been adequately answered by the ministry. It should concern both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Children and Gender Equality that the professional body to which the Government will transfer responsibility feels totally unprepared in relation to the new task to which the Government will impose child protection. The important fundamental debate on how this will affect the legitimacy of child protection and its original function jumps the message of bigotry incredibly enough. In the right we are afraid that this illegitimate procedure will contribute to two things. First of all, the government is forcing through a solution to child protection that is punishable, against the will of child protection. There is no good starting point for the children concerned, nor for the other children the protection of children is primarily to be taken care of. Unfortunately, the notification says that criminal services can actually be a good alternative to child protection, and the Minister of Justice adds to a selection work where this becomes a non-theme. Secondly, the solution to child protection lacks legitimacy in parts of the justice sector, and I note that the police's experience and competence are given priority. Nor can I see that criminal services have embraced the proposed eroding of the principle of the responsibilities of the establishment for the implementation of criminal sanctions in Norway by ensuring that 15-18-year-olds will sort under the protection of children in the future. At one point, however, it seems that the government parties will take the edge off. Not surprisingly, the police have strongly warned against the Government's proposal for an absolute ban on the arrest and imprisonment of 15-year-olds. Like the Right, this is also interpreted as a snitching of a new criminal lavalier, and as a de minimisation of the fact that very dangerous children in Norway are also in that age group, and that it is necessary to protect society effectively from this. At this point I realized that the government was also told from its own, about turning around. The right is satisfied if that proposal can be scrapped. But the government's reverse operation should not have stopped there, when the main proposal in the message has fallen on the stone's floor with them the government thinks it should do the job in the future. I have noticed, by the way, that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has been quite silent when the Child Protection Service has called for help because they do not master young offenders for whom they have been responsible today. The same applies to the Minister of Justice. He's been like taus. Right-wing thinks it's both strange and a little scary that the government designates child protection to do more of what they say today they don't master. It is difficult to understand what is happening with this case that is so urgent that it was not possible to carry out the investigation before the Government’s big message. The Minister of Justice has presented a solution that is partly suspended in the air, and it is in the opinion of the Right that it is serious to point to child protection at the same time as the professional organisation for child protection educators states that child protection has neither capacity nor competence — or a law adapted to the follow-up of young offenders who qualify for severe punishment such as custody and imprisonment. The government – and the message – gets another ugly scratch in the paint when child-restraint workers call for a principle approach to the dual role issue of child-rescue protection now steered straight into. The relationship with the other children in the field of child protection is also occupied by child-restraint workers. There is no doubt that the Right supports Norway's compliance with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But even though the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is leading, the Convention has no phase in young offenders and punishments. We're going to base the best of the child, but shouldn't that also apply to the best of all children, not just the criminal child? It worries me and the Right that the red-green parties working on this big message have so unilaterally defended the Minister of Justice and the proposal on child protection as a care and prison surrogate, without it being believed that child protection has the capacity and competence to take on the task. The question from the Right about the reconciliation restrictions that a criminal youth can check out of child protection at the age of 18 is still unanswered. The Minister of Justice has not clarified how compensation beyond the age of 18 can be provided under the auspices of child protection, if the sentenced person does not consent to continued residence. In view of this, the Right will re-examine answers as to why criminal services have not been considered as an alternative to child protection as a criminal offence. The choice of non-incarceration solutions is already fully available and, contrary to the Children’s Protection Act, the criminal enforcement law provides the flexibility required to take special account when the offenders are under 18 years of age. In addition, there is no contradiction between the responsibility for the implementation of criminal law and the involvement of child protection competences in the design and implementation of an adapted settlement system. In view of this, the Right has concluded that criminal services should be provided in the driver’s seat for 15-18 year-olds to be zoned, even when using surrogate. The right is fully understood that we do not have a large number of children aged 15 to 18 in prison in Norway. The greater the reason, perhaps, for reflecting on the seriousness of the crime they have committed when the court finds no other way out than to judge the prison or the police believes it is absolutely necessary to have custody. Norway has a humane criminal policy, and in relation to children, the prison list is and must be high. Equally full, it is more important than ever to set clear and early limits to counter norm resolution. Above all, we need to avoid children becoming attractive victims of organised criminals who ‘leader’ them in and pressure them into committing serious crime. The right agrees that there is a need to develop more differentiated settlement offers, provide good rehabilitation offers and give criminals a new chance after settlement. The goal is better customised settlement, but the goal is also that the compensation should fulfil its function as punishment. Preventive effects must and must be taken into account. Here we also have to listen to the criminal services, who know where the shoe prints. Listening is also to be done with regard to the experience of fines as the most common response to youth involved in drug issues. When dealing with criminal matters, for example: in the Nordic region, it is evident that fines are directly criminal in nature, as new fines are made up of new offences, that the reaction does not work as intended. This is a matter which the Minister of Justice should quickly address. In its alternative state budget, the right proposed a separate follow-up of young offenders. If we are to succeed in stopping a criminal career, we need to intervene early, initiate close follow-up and provide tailor-made treatment services also in relation to drugs and drugs. In addition, the right considers that young offenders should have the right — and duty — to have a mentor who can support and follow them through reconciliation and treatment and in the challenging period after, when establishing a new life on the right side of the law. A new chance also means that young offenders who have not committed the most serious crime and who break out of this life should have a chance to put this past behind them completely. I refer to the setting and take up proposal No. 2, from the Right, where we are asking for the public body to further address today's topic, also assesses the possibility for young offenders to have a chance to start adult life with blank papers. I am mildly surprised and disappointed that the government parties will not support the proposal. This survey report focuses on the 15- to 18-year-old group. It was the order from Stortinget. But it is a reality that even children well under the age of 15 and under the criminal detainee commit some serious crime. It is important that society also has the ability to set clear boundaries and react to them. The right is therefore of the opinion that the Storting must come back to how we should develop good strategies to stop the very young people who are unfortunately getting away with crime. In this context, it is a must that the police have the resources to prioritize prevention and to make more targeted efforts for children moving on the wrong side of the law. In this way we have a challenge after the look-up that was on Evening News last night.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1260	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1265	It could have been tempting to ask the representative Aspaker about the difference between a big message and a big deal proposition, as she thinks we should deal with a concrete legislative change here today. I'll leave it. What I want to ask, on the other hand, is a note where the Right asks the Government to provide a quick review of the use of fines and thereby find other forms of reaction that are better suited. I want to ask, what's the right here looking for? Is there more prison instead of fines? Or, what reaction is what the Right now has seen is going to replace fines?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1272	The right is very aware of the difference between the documents that are being processed in the Storting, but it must of course be that when we have a big message for processing, there is a policy document that will provide the basis for the sample to work on. It's not surprising to the government parties that we're actually interested in going to the root of what's really the principles here. With regard to the comment referred to here by the representative, we are actually concerned that we should think in the direction of no, not more imprisonment in those cases there, but other types of follow-up – social sanctions, etc., which may actually be very appropriate instruments. Here, in fact, I think we should listen to the criminal justice system, which is wearing the shoe and which has made these bad experiences with the fine system today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1279	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1283	Prisoning of young people under the age of 18 is currently only exceptional and case law shows that very serious or significant repeated offences are to be committed before a youth under the age of 18 is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. Thus, when prisons are sentenced to under 18 years of age, they are generally found guilty of murder, rape, or gross violence. It is necessary to have this as a starting point for the debate we have on St.meld. No 20. It is also easy to forget that the victims of a serious criminal act have a legitimate expectation that society will both protect them and clearly indicate that the action is unacceptable. When the Stortinget in spring 2005 was treated Ot.prp. No 90 on the new general part of the penal law, the Christian People's Party was very clear in two respects. [[2003-2004]] First, together with the rest of the Judicial Committee, we wanted that there would still be a high threshold for prisoning young people under 18. Secondly, we also clarified that in the few cases where a youth needs to be sentenced to prison, the prison environment should be qualitatively different from that of an adult. Because it was, and still is, a cross-political recognition that the imprisonment of young people under 18 years of age is unfortunate, the Stortinget asked for its own case about the settlement conditions of persons under 18 at the time of imprisonment. So the government has given us St.meld. No 20. Unfortunately – and I must say unfortunately – it does not provide a good enough professional basis for us in the Christian People's Party to decide on the concrete proposals contained in the communication. We will therefore support the proposal to send the message back to the Government. We're not doing that with joy. We had sincerely hoped that the Government had been able to draw up a basis for the Storting to adopt principles and endorse proposals that could provide us with improved criminal responses for young offenders. But this message actually raises more questions than answers, and we have therefore found it irresponsible now to agree to the principle of transferring responsibility for offenders under 18 from criminal custody to child protection. Today, there are no child-rescue institutions that can accommodate young people who have committed murder, rape or very serious violence. The government says it wants to build up such alternatives, but after what we can see, it has no idea how these are going to be. Nor is it considered whether child protection legislation should apply when child protection assumes responsibility for young people who have committed serious crime, despite the fact that current child protection legislation is designed to give the child rights, self-determination and freedom to a large extent and to a small extent to allow restrictions and control. Here we can obviously talk about a collision in relation to the two purposes mentioned. Another dilemma is that the notification does not provide a reassuring description of how a transfer to the child protection system can be carried out without the occurrence of an adverse isolation effect in the individual case. In a letter from the Minister to the Justice Committee dated 17 November, the Council of State states that ‘there is no basis for establishing more special offers in each of the regions’. This statement raises a third dilemma: How are we going to ensure that the young criminal is able to communicate with family and relatives? We know that such contact is very central to achieving the goal of rehabilitation and a crime-free life after an end to acquittal. In the Christian People's Party, we fully agree with the Government that children do not belong in prison. We also fully agree that society must make every effort to help young people with serious crime problems. Our hope is that for the future we will be able to see concrete and reworked proposals for the Storting that follow up on this. We in the Christian People's Party will meet that kind of proposal with a constructive and positive attitude. When, apparently, child protection is about to be given new tasks – even if we first have a sample, and I am, after all, happy with the clarifications the majority is making in relation to the work of the sample – we must also point out that child protection is currently in an extremely difficult economic situation, including that. the stop of the position. So it's the same child protection that this government is now trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1302	This is a big message where the Storting is invited to join in discussing how to reduce the use of prison sentences for young people aged 15 to 18. There is a great deal of agreement that prisons have a particularly negative impact on the youngest lawbreakers. The report also discusses how the punishment can be made more appropriate for young people in cases where prison sentences cannot be avoided. The criminal youth are different and need different follow-up. It is also important that we follow the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and what it says about the imprisonment of young people under 18. The most important effort we can make to prevent young people from entering prison is to prevent crime. Turning social efforts from repair to prevention is not only socially sensible, but it saves many people too much suffering. The Central Party believes that living communities where children and young people play an active role at an early stage provide the best means of reducing violence and crime. This is how each person is held responsible for his or her own actions and must respond separately if the rules of the community are broken. Today, we have knowledge that in some cases has enabled us to see the danger signals about a possible criminal career already in small children. It is therefore important that kindergartens and schools have a close cooperation with the public assistance service to get these children into a proper development track as early as possible. A decentralised and visible police and county council, which is a natural part of the community, makes it easier to carry out preventive work and seek-out activities in the congested environment. Nevertheless, when a number of young people commit serious criminal acts, society must have ways to stop the criminal career and prevent new crime. Social penalties aimed at compensating the young person for the crime committed should be an important instrument. Increased use of conflict advice against first-time criminals and relapsers under the age of 18 is another. Drug policy and action against drug abuse know that we are important when looking at crime statistics. It is a cause for concern that so many of the young people in Norwegian prisons have a foreign background. Lack of well-intentioned, traumatic experiences from home countries, poor schooling and a one-sided criminal network are some of the particular problems many of these young people have. Training, new networks and job creation will be very important for these young people. These are measures that must be taken both in the prevention and in the detention of prisoners or children’s institutions. A particularly important theme of this message is the relationship between the imposition of penalties and the role of child protection. Child protection measures shall always have the best interests of the child. The need for society to establish guilt and punishment is often tantamount to the best of the child, but not always. It is therefore important to stress that child protection has an important place in the prevention of crime, but that care directed at child protection is not a punishment in itself. Social penalties, drug treatment, conflict resolution and youth contracts for criminal reactions shall be provided in addition to any suspension in a child-rescue institution. Action The Government proposes, is anchored in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Nevertheless, we note that we still have to resume when it comes to the obligation to keep young lawbreakers separate from adults. There should not be many young people in Norwegian prisons. For those who still need to be imprisoned, we need to pay even more attention to the concerns of individual follow-up and rehabilitation. The centre party fully supports the proposal to set up a selection to propose criminal responses and care services other than prisons for offenders under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1331	It's a little difficult to get from the government's figures what this big message really means. But when the representative Erling Sande, who also sits on the committee that has child protection as his responsibility, takes the floor, I want to hear with him and the Central Party how he views child protection as it is today, its ability to embrace heavy criminals, and whether he thinks it is at all a problem how heavy criminals should be treated, for the purpose of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1336	Clearly, child protection is facing major challenges, and there is something the government is taking seriously. The representative of the Christian People's Party knows that. After all, the Christian People's Party has its seat in government in the previous ageing period and should be well aware of the challenges of child protection today. The intention is to enable child protection to have a more active role. Then I have to be allowed to add that in this debate it sounds like one with this message sets a point for the work of young lawbreakers. But it's not like that. It is clear that the work is continuing. There will be proposals, and there will be plenty of time to discuss future actions for this group in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1343	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1346	This is not a resolution body. This is the country's parliament, and it is clear that sometimes we also adopt things that are quite ambitious to achieve technically. We adopted, for example: The Bergensbanen for quite a long time back, which we didn't quite know if we got to technical, and the American president said we should go to the moon before we knew how to do it technically. What we are about to deal with today is no technical challenge; it's about people. I'm a little worried about the line that the Government is putting on, especially with regard to child protection expectations. For now, the Government has decided that all lone minor asylum seekers should be transferred to child protection, with a slight pinch. This should be done without ensuring that child protection is given competence and without ensuring that child protection is provided with more money. At the same time, the Minister of Justice decides that we should now transfer to child protection another group of children who are struggling, without our being sure that there will be money, and without our being sure that there will be competence. They have yet to be transferred to institutions that do not even exist. I think there's a lot of agreement in the Norwegian big deal about the intentions behind this, and there's a lot that's failed before with these kids, before they get where they are. But I'm seriously concerned about the pressure that the Government is now putting on child protection, without providing resources and without providing competence, and you're doing it with the kids who have both the biggest problems and the strongest experiences. So as a whole, this autumn has not been a good thing for Norwegian child protection. It's actually pretty scary developments, you ask me. I also agree that the processing is incomplete, as the Progress Party points out. The hearing part is an important part of our democracy, and it's an important part of the way we build things up. But there is also a government that came to power and that has the power to push through such things as this without worrying about what the opposition says. However, when the opposition puts its foot down as hard as it does here, I'm amazed that the government doesn't seem to be allowed to deal with it. The left is at least startled and will call out a warning about what we are now pushing on child protection. I would also like to say that the Left wants to vote in favour of the Progress Party and the Right proposal in the Committee, and also for the Right proposal, which I believe is a good input, and which, like the Right, I am amazed that one does not receive more support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1359	This is an important matter for the Government, and we are discussing very important measures today. It's not about the best child protection, but it's about the best of the kids. I will go strongly with the High Representative, who claims that the Minister of Justice and other politicians from the government parties have been silenced on this matter. Among other things, I pray: that you check the chronic columns. This has been a matter that we have been very concerned about since the previous Justice Committee unanimously asked the government at that time for the following: ‘The Committee asks the Ministry to present a separate case to the Stortinget as soon as possible on the settlement conditions for persons under 18 at the time of imprisonment.’ Since the opposition has spent a lot of time dwelling on the process itself in this matter, I have to allow myself some comments about this. It's with some wonder I see that you get such a reaction and almost an unwillingness to go into the debate at all on that basis. A good opportunity for the opposition just to be able to express the future in relation to how we're going to meet children, is that a government is coming to the Biggest with messages. That is what messages should be used for – so there are no concrete proposals for decisions or legislative changes, some of which have been discussed in the past, but an opportunity to debate them. So this I think is a way that invites the opposition to come up with their views, before starting what is often quite heavy processes, where the wheels start rolling and the premises are added day by day by day by creating a sample, then making proposals for draft law, etc. I have to say that I am also wondering about some of the arguments, all the time you saw early in this big message, actually on page 8 at the top, left column, says: ‘The Government proposes that a selection be set down to propose alternative criminal responses to young offenders. An important part of the mandate for this selection will be to sort out a possible single-tracked response system for this group’. – a possible one-track reaction system. So it's not like we're going to the Stortinget just to discuss it, as the previous committee and all the parties agreed that we should do immediately, but we're also sketching a process that in the future will of course mean getting a sample to look at this, and then you'll get a regular legislative process and regular consultation of the sample work that will help other actors get on the road too. I believe that, based on the Storting order and the importance of the matter, it is good – also on the assumption that we have a majority government – to have a message, so that the Storting can open up early in the phase with its views. I note with some disappointment that the opposition parties abdicate against the possibility in such an important matter that we should all be very concerned about. So is it someone who likes to say, is it that child protection will be able to take care of these problems today? Yes, that's what this sample is going to look at, and then there's a political commitment both for this hall and for the Government to facilitate a possible future task of child protection, if that's where it's put. I have to say that I am surprised to hear the Right Representative here in the Chamber saying that it is the criminal service that is going to sit in the driver's seat, and that it has almost been concluded. Is criminal care today, as we see it, equally suitable to take care of these children? Yeah, I'm not sure about that. What has been the motive for the government is that we want to look at possible solutions. What must be absolutely crucial is that here we are busy, because one child in a Norwegian prison is one child too much. It is quite obvious that other offers are needed. It's the motive of the Government. We believe that placing children in prison creates more crime, as prisons appear today, and that we have little time. Just to take the situation today, we're not going in the wrong direction. The number of persons under the age of 18 in custody is well developed. In 2000, 96 children under the age of 18 were placed in custody. In 2006, per year. On 15 November, 33 children under the age of 18 were placed in custody. So there's been a significant decrease. It shows that it's possible to think differently. But we still have the 33 children that we want to give to others. That's what's supposed to be the motive today. If we now look at the total number of detentions for both housing and care in 2006, there were 48 children in the youth school. That's 0.02 pst. Then we have to ask ourselves, is it so that in this society we have an opportunity to react differently to 48 children? Yeah, that's my ambition. That's the government's ambition. We'll take care of that. It shall not override the principles of child protection, either the country's economy or the rule of law, or, for that matter, the principles of child protection. Then you can ask about what may have created the most debate, which concerns those between the ages of 15 and 16, who are being arrested and held in custody – something that the Right has wrongly produced as an upliftment of the criminal detainee – how many are there? I have been informed, by review, that during this year there are two prisoners or prisoners, who are between 15 and 16 years of age – two children. Is it possible for us to imagine that we can find a different offer for these children than to have to place them in Norwegian prisons? That's the government's question, and our answer might be careful. I had expected that the criticism actually came there -- that putting down a sample to hear people, to hear child protection, to hear the criminal code, to hear everyone, maybe was defensive. I thought it came there, but I'm recording it's not coming there. These two children, I am convinced that both the opposition, the big business representatives and the government will be able to find alternative solutions that are better suited than those we have today. I know that the courts are doing what they can to try to avoid placing so young people in custody. I believe that we have great opportunities here when we now put down a sample to see how we are going to meet such a small number of children, but which we are very concerned about having to have a different offer, not only to avoid them committing new crimes, but also to ensure society against the activity that children can also do, and which in some cases will be very dangerous. And that's possible. It is not that one between 15 and 16 years of age, according to instruments of criminal procedure, is totally indifferent to intervention — as it has also been produced as. First of all, the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law Secondly, it is this selection, among other things. to look at — the question of finding alternative responses, so that we can also get these people out of circulation or out of society, and secure society. I am convinced that in such a well-developed democracy as Norway and with such a humane approach as we have in the field of criminal justice, we must do it. That's why I have to say that it surprises me that you don't go into this discussion to a greater extent, and you're in and you're embossing the premise for, among other things. the range that will deal with as important questions as we are faced with here. However, I am of the opinion – and sometimes I think it's all right – that many good ideas come from the opposition as well as about how to tackle it with crime and criminal reactions. The proposal that now comes from the Right on criminal registration and deletion in criminal records – we have a certain opportunity to delete already, I have the understanding – I would actually recommend that the government parties support it, so that it can also be included in the investigation work. When it comes to questions of investigation and consultation, it is quite common for investigative work and NOUs to be heard, and for consultation to be given in advance of an opinion. But if you go into the investigation manual, you'll see that this is not the case in relation to grossing-up messages. It's at the Department's briefing. I have checked the practice of the previous government today, and it was not different in this matter either. I rather think the Stortinget would be pleased to have an early opportunity – quickly, as was said in the Justice Committee of the previous period – to be involved in shaping a matter as important as this is in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1400	This big message is really the story of three overruns: overrun of child protection, overrun of the police and overrun of the criminal justice system. Although the Council of State here has made a relatively long contribution, I feel more committed to being at a seminar in Stortinget than actually having to decide on what I thought was the key principles of a big message, with clear leads for a sample that the Council of State alerts should be reduced. I was also a little confused when I heard the council say from the pulpit that it was perhaps this selection that was going to take a final decision on whether it was the child protection that was to be responsible for the criminal execution. I have two questions for the Council of State. Why does the Government propose a breach of the principle that criminal law should be the responsibility of criminal law enforcement in Norway? Does this mean that 15- to 18-year-olds are going somewhere else, that there is a new criminal lavalier in Norway, and that 18-year-olds are going to be a new age limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1409	We're not going to change any age limit. It is the Right that is still talking about when it comes to this debate. We are comfortable with the criminal detainee, and these proposals do not go at all. What we're looking for is somewhere else to place children, whether you need it more forcibly before punishment comes, or as an atoning reaction. There I have to be completely open: the crucial thing for the Government and for me is the best-meaning of the child – I am convinced that it will contribute to reducing crime and more security for society – and not necessarily to preserve old system traditions. That's exactly what we're going to use this sample to, to see what's going to be the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1417	There is no one in this room who has said that it is the best child protection we are most concerned about. It is, as the Council of State itself had in mind, the best of the child that is the starting point for this debate and, I hope, for the big message that has been presented. But there's something about the order that I'm jumping over, and that the Council of State was inside in its article. If you want a sample, a broad sample, I expect, and the government parties have stressed that they want a public sample, it is well to get good professional input on how to best treat this group between 15 and 18 years, so that they get a better future. With what is behind, however, the Government presents proposals that are almost shell proposals. It is stated that the general rule should be prison surrogacy when the person is under 18, and there are a number of other such shell proposals. But with the input of the Council of State: Does it mean that the Council of State gives the selection a free mandate, so that the proposals presented here by the Government can also be re-examined during debate? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1424	The President will recall that the speaking time for a reply is up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1427	We will draw up a mandate for this sample, which will do its job to turn all the stones in order to create good solutions. An experience by bringing out a big message and getting a debate about it is just hearing what the opposition and others are making of recordings. I have to say that the few reactions that have been made to the content of the communication and the response that has been made to the role of child protection against the responsibilities of criminal justice are in favour of the mandate being as free as possible. I had the ambition for this big message that we would actually get a basis for this election. These are important questions of principle. So when we are about to start drawing up the final mandate, we will of course be taking the signals that have arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1436	First, I have to say that it is at least nice to hear that the Council of State takes seriously the recordings that have come in the form of criticism, and we hope that they will be followed up in the mandate that is to be drawn up. But there is reason to stress that this was not an invitation to the opposition or the organizations that we had to provide were heard and on which we base our criticism. This was a fist with a wish for a blank authorization. I have to ask, if our critical remarks were so amazing, how could it be that the government seems to be on the verge of attacking and imprisonment and the ban on doing so against people under 15 years of age, while one had a completely different approach in the past? Not least, what action was taken in the budget in relation to child protection in order to ensure that they were able to deal with the problems that are already there today, before embarking on new reforms? Finally, the Minister of Justice gets some praise on the way. To the extent that you take these questions seriously, there has been some kind of dialogue, even though it is legally late here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1445	For me, with my clever state-scientific background, that is basic science, it is such that it is just a big deal to be used for, among other things. to let the mood, to hear, to travel debates, etc. in Stortinget. In the situation we're now in, with a majority government where an opposition is constantly pointing out that it wants to have a hand on the wheel, I think it's important that we can have this kind of debate, even before a public sample starts, things start to snuck in, and you get locked into a solution. Then it's harder to turn around. I still wonder about the opposition's course of action. As for the question of the budget and why there was no more to it there: it would be to lock it completely if the government had decided to choose a one-track system into child protection and say that this is also the money for next year. We might have to take time with such a selection and also wait for the more budgetary implications. It is also clear from the debate that it has budgetary implications when, for example: must handle the children who are currently in prison or located elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1452	The Council of State may be right to participate in the debate even after the announcement was made in June, when he and the Council of State wrote a common chronicle. But then there is actually raised a number of questions relating to whether child protection is capable of fulfilling the task, and not least there is an important fundamental question raised in relation to the dual role the Government will now steer child protection into. Throughout this important fundamental debate, I note that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has been 100 pst. absent. She is also not present in Stortinget today when this important matter is discussed. I then have the following questions to the Minister of Justice: Does he not see the problem in pointing to a solution that child protection itself considers to be extremely problematic, raising questions about the legitimacy of the whole of child protection in relation to its original role as caregiver for the young children's protection was intended for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1459	The government has two ambitions in relation to this. The most important thing is for the child to have a solution that helps the child not to commit new crimes and to have a life worth living in the future. The second is that society is secured against the criminal activity that children and young people actually do, that we have the necessary security. That's what matters. I hear that the Right is still drawing up fundamental discussions about the borderline of child protection. Can't you see that criminal custody also comes in a double situation, by being a care center for children while their principal task is to punish? It may well be as problematic as what is outlined on the part of child protection. We are in government, we have government power primarily to shape public Norway so that we can meet children and others who need help and assistance in a better way than we do today. This should be reflected in both our legislative proposals and in our draft budgets in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1466	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1471	Under Norwegian law and international conventions, a child is up to the age of 18. This message focuses primarily on how society should handle lawbreakers between 15 years of age – the criminal low age in Norway – and 18 years of age. The aim of this big message is to provide a fundamental insight into how we can reduce the use of prison sentences against young people, and how we can make the punishment more suitable for this group in cases where prison sentences cannot be avoided. It is important to bear in mind that there are few people under the age of 18 in Norwegian prisons. It usually varies between five and ten, but it can also be fewer. The work of young prisoners requires a holistic effort and commitment to cooperation between different sectors and levels of administration both before, during and after the implementation of custody and prison sentences. It is important to develop procedures for parents, police, child protection, school, health services, courts and criminal services to cooperate when children and young people break the law. The reaction should be smarter, faster and adapted to the young person. Personal investigation, individual level and establishment of a mentoring system shall be central to ensuring an individual and holistic follow-up of young offenders in prison. Prisons are often referred to as crime prevention schools, and everyone should understand why they do not want to place children and young people in a prison. Still, there are situations where society's need for protection makes prison the only option, and we're not going to make any changes to the law here until we have a proper alternative in place. There's a little more recent research in the field. It is therefore both important and right to set up a selection to assess the integrity and complexity of society's responses to young people who have committed criminal acts. However, it must be stressed that child protection should not be a penal function, and criminal action resulting from crime must be anything but abstinence at child protection institutions, such as children’s institutions. social sanctions, drug treatment, youth contracts and mediation in conflict councils. Finally, let me show you that the experience of using community sanctions is very good. Only 20 pst. of those sentenced to social punishment, guilty of new criminal acts. In prison terms, the rate of relapse is 80. There is, of course, no evidence that young offenders are only to be met with social punishment; we must bear in mind that criminal offences that are met with prison sentences are of a far more serious nature. But it tells us something important that young lawbreakers meet with a quick and correct response before they develop a lawbreaker's career and become involved in more serious crime. We need to remove several starting blocks for young people on the road to a criminal career, and we need to rehabilitate those who are still in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1490	It's a very important topic we're discussing, but I think it's a little sad that many in the opposition parties are having more problems with this than is necessary, because a lot of the point is just getting a debate on this big message. When assessing measures against this group of criminals, this does not mean that young offenders should avoid a response to criminal offences. But we believe it is important that the reaction should be wiser, come faster and be much better adapted to the individual young offender. I think it is very rare to defend kids. As far as possible, alternative responses should be sought which can be of benefit to the child, while at the same time safeguarding the need for protection of society. Putting children in prison with tanned criminals will usually have a negative impact. There are enough examples of young offenders in that situation taking lessons from their fellow inmates. I think that's a kind of lesson we don't want them to get. That's why it's very important for young offenders to be allowed to work together with people who have a clear view of what's right and wrong, and we don't know that's so easy to get into a normal prison. Especially in custody, we think prisoning is a concern, because at this point in time, it is not yet settled. In addition, Norway has clear obligations under the Children’s Convention in relation to the use of prison against children. The background to this is the recognition that children and young people are unable to see the consequences of their own actions and therefore cannot be fully held responsible. So the government's view in this big message is very firmly anchored in the Children's Convention. The Labour Party therefore wants to reduce the use of prisons for young people under 18 years of age and to find other measures to prevent the repetition, escape and loss of evidence. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of the fact that other parts of society are also on the verge of picking up signals when they think something is wrong. Because although what we are discussing today, hopefully will make it easier for young offenders to get back to the narrow path, we should not forget that the most important thing is prevention. If that job is done well enough, hopefully we won't have this kind of debate in the storeroom in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1499	It's with disappointment I'm witnessing the opposition party's lack of commitment to this important matter. Right-wing promote a proposal, and it is a good proposal, which the Labour Party will also support, to seek out a mechanism for deleting the scroll to young offenders. But both the Right Party and the Advance Party's primary position is to send the matter back to the Government, despite the fact that both parties were represented in the previous Judicial Committee, which, in the consideration of the general part of the penal law, said that the government should present a case to the Grand Government as soon as possible about the settlement conditions for young people under 18. The two lots justify their return proposal because the case has not been heard. I have to ask, where has this become of political courage? Is that not true when it's serious? Why not use these two parties, and especially the Progress Party, this opportunity to be clear on what they will do to create better responses to young offenders? When you listen to this debate, you should think that this is something the Minister of Justice has just puzzled out at his office. It is not that this is a matter that is created in a vacuum. The message follows clear political signals given by a unanimous outburst. The notification was made in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, which is the Ministry of Child Protection, and the Ministry of Justice, for those who did not have to know it, is the Ministry of Criminal Affairs. The notification follows up the UN Convention, and the notification looks at experiences from neighbouring countries. In addition, it is proposed to set up a sample to propose alternative criminal responses. I think it's a little sweet and touching that the Progress Party, which in previous years has at least proposed to cut down quite vigorously on child protection, now ends up so well on child protection. The notification has been in Stortinget for more than six months. At this time, opposition parties have not been able to make proposals of significant importance in relation to the location of the lots. In the meantime, The evening post, Dagbladet and Avisa Nordland are ready to take a position and support the Government in the leadership position. Young offenders are a very vulnerable group, many of whom have been involved in earlier days. That's why I'm happy to belong to a vast majority of people who have political wisdom and courage to do what we've been told to do, both in the previous decision on big business and in the Soria Moria Declaration, to improve the reconciliation conditions for children and young people – hopefully to prevent more people from becoming criminals, and to contribute to a slightly better society for some more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1515	It's almost Christmas – that's why I choose to interpret what the Right says, in a friendly atmosphere. I see that the Right stresses that justice is to be done in the spirit of humanism, and that criminal justice is also to be organised in the spirit of humanism. I perceive that there is a great difference between the message and the message that the Progress Party has in the Chamber – because it is often a message that the criminals are to be punished harder and more so. As far as it is possible to understand the message of the Right in a positive context, I think that it is important not only to point out a policy direction, but also how to strengthen the measures so that they function according to the intention. Now, more people have mentioned child protection, and the state of child protection is very much determined by the Right, both through the last government put in the Right, and through criminal policy over many years for this group we are talking about here. What is positive is that young people who, through support, have the opportunity to become useful people may not have to pay the penalty and that other measures can be taken. I think that the proposal that the right here is promoting, just takes on board that you should get a new chance. There should be other ways out of crime that do not stigmatize. SV can therefore also support the proposal from the Right on page 4 of the setting. However, as far as I can register, there is a typographical error in the proposal itself. It says ‘in the case of the young criminal’. As far as I can see, it should read 'the young criminals'. I wonder if the Right can confirm that. We support the proposal. Through this message, the Government is pointing in one direction. Then, of course, it must follow funds over time. We need to be involved in strengthening child protection and taking more measures in the area of child protection, not least against young criminals. Because both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have so clearly marked that they see the concerns of child protection today, it should be possible to have broad support in this Chamber for this type of action. So there is reason to look forward to the future with regard to measures against young criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1524	According to the decision in Stortinget earlier today, Stortinget is taking a break. The meeting will be revisited at 0 p.m. 16:00. The meeting was cancelled at 9.30 a.m. 13.45. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 16 President: Mr Thorbjørn Jagland Agenda: The issues on today's map [[no 36]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1554	This debate has taken a bit of a strange turn. For now, all of a sudden, it's the government parties and the government councils that are involved in the procedure, i.e. how quickly it was necessary to get the wholesale message to Stortinget. First of all, it is true that the previous staging asked for a big message about alternative criminal responses for young offenders. But that does not mean that the Storting is obliged to praise the message in the clouds when the content is not satisfactory. It is possible that the government believes to have delivered in time, but that does not change the fact that the fundamental discussions that we are calling for in the communication are not there, but flashes with their absence. That's because this whole opposition has pointed out and criticized, and many of them we've talked to after the hearing, actually agree. Secondly, it is not that the right view is that the ban on assault and custody of 15-year-olds is perceived as an introduction by a new higher criminal lavaliser. In fact, it is the police who have called the full alarm. According to the chairman of the Joint Association of Police, Arne Johannessen, the proposal was totally unacceptable in the face of heavily charged 15-year-old criminals. The police would have been unable to intervene, and the result would probably have been that one would have thrown those 15-year-olds right into the claws of organized criminals, who know how to exploit children who are not to be apprehended and imprisoned. In conversations with the head of the Police Union, he has clearly stated that the Government would abandon this proposal. If the Minister of Justice now thinks otherwise, I think it is important that he tells us about it, and that the Stortinget is aware that in that case he has turned against the position expressed by the Head of the Joint Police Association. It is not that the Right has resigned from this debate. On the contrary, I have underlined the need for a larger repertoire of criminal reactions, and that these need to be assessed on an ongoing basis in order to ensure that they actually have the desired preventive effect in relation to young offenders. In fact, that was my point of mentioning the example of fines on drugs, which, in fact, according to the experience of criminal services, only helped to increase crime. The right party participates in the debate in a confession that the matter is now being run, even though we are very critical of the Government inviting the Stortinget to decide on a series of half-thinking thoughts. It can't have anything to do with roughness to make the government present a partially completed groceries message. And I guess I don't think I've been given a convincing answer as to why child protection is going to organise criminal execution, when the competence in this field lies with the criminal justice community. It is obvious to the Right that criminal services can and must be secured resources in order to be able to operate better tailors to alternative settlement arrangements for young offenders where child protection skills are also involved. Government parties have placed great emphasis on the importance of wiser, faster and better adapted reactions. I'll say a hundred percent agree with that. But it's when the principles are challenged that the opposition and the Right divide the layers with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1571	I think there has been a development in the debate. I would also like to say that I believe that the Minister of Justice's last contribution gives hope that the public body to be set up in the wake of the decisions we are making today will have such a broad mandate, and that all professional input will be included, that I hope that the matter may be a little better than it looked when the message was presented. I just want to point to one aspect that is not mentioned in the big message, and which I think should have been mentioned if you were to run the mindset completely. If child protection is to take care of the juvenile criminals this is about, and if it is not intended to be added to the institutions of its own, what is the significance of this being done for the general confidence in what child protection institutions should be? We know that child protection is struggling enough as it is, to bring about legitimacy in the population and among the users, and if, in addition, ordinary child protection clients were to be mixed with those who have committed serious crime, I actually think it should have been discussed very, very carefully. We're going to hope that the sample to be reduced will have a chance, because that's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1578	To the end, I would like to reiterate that there are no leads in the big message that suggest that it should be limited in such a way that the important theme that the representative Syversen is now drawing up cannot be included. I think that might actually be one of the main reasons why you cut down such a sample and so early in the big-time message signals that it's important for us. But at the same time, I think we should agree that there are child protection institutions today that hold quite challenging children, who also have a legal background, so this is not a completely foreign matter for child protection. But at the same time, I am very pleased that the debate is just about to move on to trying to find the best possible solutions to secure society, so that you don't have reason to feel afraid of new crime, while seeing the child's best very clearly. So to the representative, Aspaker's posts. That's how we want a sample like that. There has been no surprise. It is also true that the exercises to be done in relation to assault and imprisonment are not intended to be a free card for 15-year-olds to commit new crimes — rather, on the contrary. We believe it should be possible to find instruments – there are some in police legislation today, as I mentioned earlier – that can contribute to, among other things. have minors brought in. We are looking here for something that can relieve the criminal justice system of the tasks it has in terms of prison. It's not that the government is thus represented by the Joint League of Police. What the League of Police has said to the representative Aspaker – or to the Right, for that matter – is on behalf of the Joint Union of Police. What is the Government's position is in the big message, and it is also stated in this debate and in earlier debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1587	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1597]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1603	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1610	The public debate on prostitution seems to be seasonal. The exposure was at the top of both the one and the other when prostitution traffic was more visible in the tourist crowd at Karl Johan. Now the engagement is almost back at the level that it was when the prostitutes stood a few quarters away. You can think a little bit about why. In any case, I am pleased that a unanimous committee in its comments expresses a view of value which is based on a desire to help the individual, but which is not motivated by a moralizing above-and-down attitude, which has permeated much of the debate in the last year. That gives good hope. Individual prostitutes must meet with dignity, not only through a well-developed auxiliaries, but also through the way the debate is conducted. It has been bad to hear what has been more marked by the thought of renovation and less of how we can improve the situation of life for those who have been in prostitution for various reasons. Some people seem to think that the garbage problem in Oslo and the prostitution challenges are two sides of the same coin. I think it would have been an advantage if some of these had taken a break in between and thought about that there are people they're talking about. In fact, some sex buyers seem to be showing more concern for the individual prostitutes, as opposed to the better-advanced debaters. Several prostitutes have been questioned about their background in Norway and whether they are victims of trafficking in human beings. This may suggest that the conditions under which prostitutes live are not completely indifferent to at least some of the clients. Awareness of potential sex buyers is important. Deciding that everyone should watch the movie "Lilja 4-ever" is, however, little targeted – even if the movie is quite horrible. Many probably saw the German drug film «Christiane F.» in their time — many of us had to see it — but it is difficult to see that it necessarily hit as wide as one then probably had a naïve hope. The challenges are large and complex, and the solutions are similarly complex. There is no fix and quick solutions. Among other things, we must: distinctions between the different ways in which people are recruited to prostitution. It is therefore positive that the Government is taking action to increase knowledge of trafficking in human beings and prostitution, both in school and in defence. Here you have to take in the width that's on the sex market, and the huge inequalities that exist. Like most other so-called normal people, the prostitutes are a composite group of people, i.e. individuals with different experiences and with different needs and desires for themselves and their lives. The provision of assistance must be coordinated, and the individual prostitute must meet in a more holistic and user-oriented manner than is the case today. Not least, this must mean that there is no form of exclusion of male prostitutes and female buyers of sexual services, either from the debate or from the strategies devised. The government opens up to assess the appropriateness of criminalising the individual buyer of sexual services of prostitutes over 18 years of age. The Committee awaits the Government's proposals, including: in the light of proven experience in other countries that have introduced equivalent legislation. For the Right, it is important to encourage the Government to be open to realise that targeted use of visa rules on its part can be a way to go, as more police districts have requested. As regards human trafficking, there is a clear need to review the use of concepts and experience with them. The possibility for the police to use specific investigation methods — such as: Telephone interception — in human trafficking and trafficking, shall be assessed by the Government. For the Right section, I can already notify support for an extension of the last. The action plan will probably receive many good words from the government parties themselves, but I think there is reason to say that there are many good actions in it, especially the focus on international cooperation and action in cooperation with national authorities. A broader focus on responses to the increasingly cross-border organised crime is also important. Networks used for trafficking in human beings are also used for other criminal activities. However, the point in the recently presented plan that the Government is increasing the aid effort to strengthen the position of women in order to make them less vulnerable to recruitment, I would ask the Council of State to comment on this. Most victims of trafficking in human beings in the form of prostitution in Norway today come from Nigeria and Eastern European countries. It could be a good idea to get a brief overview of the level of assistance to these countries already now and what projects the increased assistance may be going on. Furthermore, the Committee recommends that the proposal on which this debate is based be annexed to the minutes. We will return to a number of these issues in the context of the review of criminal law and in an appropriate way also in the context of the action plan of which the Government has presented an updated version.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1640	In the recently published novel «A glass of milk, thank you» by Herbjørg Wassmo, the author tells of 15-year-old Dorte from Lithuania. She doesn't dream about much – about the baker's son, about the father, who died too early, and about a little less poverty. Therefore, the offer to travel to Stockholm in secret to work at a restaurant is so tempting. She can hardly believe that she is on her way to this new future, in an Audi with windows that cannot be opened. She ends up in Norway as a forced prostitute — one of many nameless victims of today’s slave trade, where cynical backers from profit point of view trade with people. Gradually, Dorte begins to tear herself in the arm for each customer. Finally, the arm just becomes a striped piece of leather. We don't know how many Dorter there are in Norway today. But we know that thousands of women, children and men become victims of human trafficking every year. We also know that trade is likely to increase. It has been estimated that trafficking in human beings is the second largest illegal industry in the world, the second after trafficking in weapons. That's why I'm glad there's a strong commitment to the Storting to fight this undead. In the past, two action plans have been presented with measures to combat trafficking in human beings, and today we are dealing with a Document No. Eight proposals, made by representatives of the Christian People's Party, with a number of new proposals for action. The Judicial Committee has proposed that the document be annexed to the Protocol, not least because last week the Government presented a new action plan against trafficking in human beings. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we say that we will fight all forms of trafficking in human beings. This plan is more comprehensive and far-reaching than the two previous action plans, and not least Document No. The 8th proposal, which is being discussed today. The main focus is on trafficking in human beings for prostitution, but both the child perspective, forced labour and the illegal trafficking of organs are areas we want to give priority to. Among other things, we will prevent minors from disappearing from reception. It is also important for the Government and the Red-Green majority to reduce the underlying causes of trafficking, such as poverty, conflict and gender inequality. That is why it is also important for us to increase the aid effort, which the representative Octay Dahl had in mind, precisely to strengthen the situation of women in particular, so that they become less vulnerable to recruitment. One of the most important measures we take to get women out of forced prostitution, and to get the backers, is to extend the reflection period to six months. In addition, we will grant a one-year temporary work permit if an alleged victim of human trafficking has broken the environment behind the trafficking in human beings and police investigations are initiated against the backers. We also want to strengthen the provision of health care, social care and safe housing, because we know from experience that it is easier to gain confidence in victims of trafficking through this type of offer, and because these are essential needs for victims to be able to break the environment behind trafficking in human beings. A review of police action against trafficking in human beings shall also be carried out and the outreach activities in the prostitution environment shall be intensified in all police districts, with a particular focus on Oslo. The new Methodology Committee will also be required to assess the availability of police access to specific investigation methods, anonymous witnessing and special forms of consultation for the detection of trafficking in human beings. We also want a review of the legislation of our neighbouring countries in this field, inter alia. to look at the impact of criminalisation. Here I must point out that the Committee in the setting of Document No. 8:86 agrees that prostitution must be combated primarily with social policy instruments, not criminal policy. Herbjørg Wassmo writes in the afterword: ‘Special thanks to the young women who take the burden of witnessing to their attackers. We owe them protection, help and respect. We have to put everything in place to stop abuse and slave trafficking." Rarely have I agreed more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1669	I'm going to start my speech by giving tribute to the proposers, who point out an important societal problem and a challenge for all of us. I think that although the proposers have made many good proposals, there are no simple solutions here. The problems of trafficking in human beings challenge us in many different ways. I think it's important to look at the context behind this. Of course, if someone comes here as a result of trafficking in human beings, we're going to fight it in every way in terms of criminal law. If others who come here have completely different motives – let’s say that it’s simply economic motives, in order to get a better everyday life through their stay in Norway – we have completely different challenges, other ways we have to deal with this. So there are no simple solutions. Of course, what is going on in combating trafficking in human beings is going to come down hard. What goes on other things, it takes completely different kinds of tools to handle. Then, of course, you have to look at the background of the people who are exposed to this. I'm going to give all sorts of homage to everyone who contributes and wants to fight this. But I'm also a little afraid that we're in a situation where we make a lot of decisions, and then we kind of feel like we've done the job. I think that if people were to come here through forced prostitution, for example. from Eastern Europe, and there are families in the home country who have pressure on them, so we can wish ourselves a lot strange here, we can have the best intentions of all the world, but I'm not sure it will hold. If there's a little boy or girl at home, and his mother – or father for that matter – is here, then we've done something that's morally correct for our part, we've shown some power of action, but I'm not sure what we're doing is holding. Then we're back to doing it based on a desire to fight this – and that of course must be our intention. But this isn't any fight that stops in any way. This is a fight that must continue continuously, because there are many relationships that we cannot directly intervene in. But at the end of the day, our attitudes are also involved in influencing how we want to solve this. I am of those who don't believe that all the world's bans remove these problems either. It doesn't. That, of course, is a sign and a clear political signal that we want to fight it. But usually there are other things involved. We have laws and regulations in our country for a lot of things. That doesn't mean they don't break. But the level of seriousness also needs to come to light, through the way we deal with this, and how we react to it. I'm glad that the committee leader dealt with this with method and method, because I think it's very important that you look at it. There was a debate for a while back — we had some Chinese children who disappeared — about what methods can be used in relation to human trafficking and trafficking. I'm assuming that the Council of State also got these signals and takes this seriously, and that we get other types of tools, so that we can achieve what we actually want as functionally as possible. In conclusion, if you look at the problems of prostitution, in my view, it is in many ways a dilemma debate. It may be a mistake to say that, but I feel that it is. If we decide to ban sex buying in Norway, will we remove it? The Swedes have claimed that they have succeeded by imposing a ban. Not everyone automatically buys that assessment. It's probably just that it's gone under the ground; it's not that visible. Some claim that it actually makes it worse for the prostitutes. So that's a dilemma to my mind. We're not going to solve it, but we're going to try to better deal with it. That's what you have to pay attention to. But banning it doesn't automatically give any success, as I see it. Then it would have been tempting – it's probably scary now before Christmas – when we consider banning sex purchases, saying: Should you also see the possibility of banning sex sales? I guess that's how a challenge can be solved in a number of ways. And the point must be to do it in the most gentle way possible for those who are affected here, it be to themselves women or men. In any case, I look forward to a debate on this problematisation too, but I would like to conclude by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party in order to keep the pressure up here, and also to the Government in terms of the action plan – both the previous one and the current one.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1692	Human beings are no salesmanship. We cannot sit calm and watch that more and more people sell their bodies in Oslo and in other major cities around the country. When I and the Christian People's Party fight to reduce the number of prostitutes, it's not because we want to renovate. We're not concerned that the streets should be clean and pretty. Our commitment is justified in principle as Upperland has so accurately formulated: ‘You must not tolerate injustice so intensely that you do not touch yourself!’ Buying sexual services is sexualized violence. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that we should generally criminalize the purchase of sex. We are convinced that such criminalisation will reduce the basis of prostitution, and thus a ban will make trafficking in human beings and prostitution less lucrative for backers and organised criminals. We have to make it harder to make big money on people's sales. Today, we know that Norway is an attractive country for pimps and traffickers. We can't live with it. I am very pleased that the government in the recently submitted action plan on trafficking in human beings says that it is now time to consider criminalising the purchase of sexual services. I also understand the setting so that a total justice is open to this, and that's very positive. We have come a major step closer to criminalisation. In the Christian People's Party, we fully agree with the Judicial Committee that prostitution should not primarily be combated by criminal policy instruments. We believe it is essential to strengthen social policy measures, and it is important that, as the Committee also says, they are directed at both women and men. In this respect, I would like to pay tribute to the representative André Oktay Dahl for contributing to the focus of this debate on the prostituted men. I would like to see the position on this issue more concrete in terms of social policy and prevention. But when that is said, we in the Christian People's Party are pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on the need to strengthen the organisations working to increase the quality of life of the prostitutes. Both the PRO centre, Nadheim and other low-threshold services provide many prostitutes with important support, health care and necessary information on different rights, and I have deep respect for the work done by firemen in these places. The government's recent action plan against trafficking in human beings is extensive. I am pleased that the plan contains several measures that are in line with the proposals in our Document No. Eight proposals. It's e.g. it is essential to allow police to use communication control and secret search in the investigation of interns and traffickers. With regard to the Government Action Plan, we find it surprising that a plan to work until 2009 does not have a more offensive strategy for training and attitude measures in high school. The plan does not contain proposals for awareness-raising measures for those who are serving as guardians, nor does the Committee, in its position on today's case, express itself specifically on awareness-raising measures. I hope that the Council of State can confirm today that he has a dynamic attitude to the plans presented to combat trafficking in human beings, and that he, together with his colleagues in the Government, will take offensive action in the school community and in the defense to prevent the recruitment of sex buyers. The fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings should not be the subject of party political markings but should be based on a broad political anchoring. I think the setting for Document No. 8:86 provides a good foundation for this, but we still have to be open to new initiatives that can reduce prostitution and trafficking in human beings. In the Christian People's Party, we believe it is necessary to take concrete measures that can give women and men who are travelling to Norway a new start in their home country. Support for education, micro-credit to establish their own activities and support for foreign organisations assisting victims of trafficking in human beings is important in this context. We must provide people who have been exposed to human trafficking and experienced years as sales goods, security for a worthwhile life and re-establishment with return to their homeland. The abuses occurred in Norway. Norway must therefore take responsibility for these girls. Finally, I would like to thank the Judicial Committee for a thorough and serious examination of Document No. 8:86. In the Christian People's Party, we look forward to continued cross-political cooperation on this unusually important topic, and the time is ripe for the criminalisation of the purchase of sex.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1721	Trafficking in human beings is a gross violation of the victims. In most cases, there are women and children. It has been said that this is the slave trade of our time. I share that characteristic, and it says a little bit about how serious this case is. In fact, it also says a little about us as politicians and about our legacy if we can't deal with human trafficking. Trafficking in human beings is growing. We have also found in Norway in recent times that more and more prostitutes in this country are probably victims of trafficking in human beings. It has also been suspected that children have been transported to Norway for such a purpose. The Central Party is therefore pleased that the Government has developed a new and thorough action plan against trafficking in human beings. Stronger efforts to come into contact with the victims, better provision of health services and social care are important to improve knowledge of what is happening. Extended provision of aid counsel and extended reflection periods are measures that we hope will lead to the successful emergence of several victims of trafficking and the possibility of the rearmen being taken. Trade in children seems even more grotesque than trade in adults. It is therefore very good that the Government has proposed a number of new measures to combat trafficking in children. The Nordic Conference of Experiences and the acquisition of more knowledge about how to reveal such an activity are important measures. It's not just what we're doing here in Norway, as a number. The reason people can easily recruit for trafficking in human beings is poor living conditions and hope of income and a better life in another country. Assistance and cooperation projects in countries from which the victims come may reduce these recruitment opportunities. It is good that there is a great deal of emphasis on stanchive work to counter the demand for sexual services, both here at home and for the Nordics abroad. Increasing attention to the degrading situation of many of the prostitutes should help many to refrain from buying sexual services. The centre party believes it is important to continue working with experience from other countries, including the United Kingdom. Sweden, to assess whether the purchase of sexual services should be criminalised. This can be an effective measure to reduce the prostitution market, where most victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway can be found. A good helper is decisive for the lives of those who leave prostitution. Therefore, in the event of a ban, it would be particularly important to have a good support device. It is important to see individuals in prostitution. In particular, we have to remind each other of the many individual relationships and the individuals of these high numbers in human trafficking, which the committee leader was involved in. There are men standing at Karl Johan today and offering to bring customers to prostitutes women. Where are these women? Can it be that the reason they're not there is not that they don't want to, but maybe they're physically unable to figure out where they are? Another question you might also ask is, where are these women and other victims? Where are the victims of human trafficking on the day they are no longer able to attract the customers that the rearmen have seen they can pull? We in the Central Party support the intention of the proposers, and also refer to the important work that the Government has done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1738	I also warmly welcome the proposal. I think it is good that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to discuss this topic, and I am particularly pleased that both the arrangement of the measures we see for us, and what comes out of the decisions, seem to arouse fairly good and even sounding here in the Stortinget. The author of the proposal, the representative, Tørresdal, was concerned that a more specific decision should preferably be taken on the matter. I hope it's a good comfort to read our human trafficking plan, which was presented last week. It consists of 37 points that we have tried on the part of the Government to be as concrete as possible, so that we do not get into the situation that the representative Ellings described, that there will be a collection of good intentions, a lot of good intentions and a lot of decisions that are made, but that in reality may have little substance in it. If there is something that needs substance and effective action, it is this field – mainly because it is possible to do something. This is not a field that is only hopeless. Here we have great opportunities to achieve results, and the figures specifically referred to by the PRO centre recently actually show a decline in the number of prostitutes in Oslo and in the country, as they record it. I am convinced that, also with a view to close international cooperation, in particular within the Schengen mechanism, we will be able to see significant results in relation to this. I would also like to point out something in the extension of what the representative Dahl asks about – about the assistance that is intended in relation to this. It's not possible for me to give concrete numbers, because it's not clear. We've said in the plan that we're going to spend 90 million. kr from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget over a three-year period. But there are also amounts in addition to this, for example. the use to be made of EEA funding mechanisms for the new EU countries, which will be particularly important to make these countries apply for projects to us and which may include, inter alia, Repatriation of human trafficking victims, by building up offers in the Baltic countries and in other new EU countries, so that girls leaving Oslo actually have a safe port to travel to. I am also pleased to say that, in a moment, Minister of Development Solheim is going to Nigeria, with a view to discussing such concrete cooperation agreements. I think it's absolutely crucial if we're going to succeed in giving these also a safe port when they come back. Some of them may have been in a difficult criminal procedure here, and then at least they need a safe haven when they get home, where there are many who can have a lot of different motives in how these girls and boys are treated. I will also give tribute to the representative Octay Dahl for his gender perspective in this – certainly important. We forget it a lot. I also have a significant sense of the reasoning about the renovation considerations, which have been highlighted by several. I believe that the plan that the government is now adopting is not about to renovate. We don't accept the theory that what's out of sight is out of mind. We want to go deeper into it, and that's why the measures presented by the Government in relation to trafficking in human beings are based on building care, concrete care services here at home, but also for those in this trade. It's building trust -- it's a lot to care about; it's taking care of, it's getting trust -- so the police can get in position with girls and boys in the human trade. In particular, we talk about the big cities in Norway, where we want to intensify police work. In Oslo, a group of its own is being set up to deal with these issues. I believe that, because we are totally dependent on bringing up more cases against the backers, so that we can create the general prevention and the individual prevention contained in the criminal justice system. It can also help us to be much more able to create clear responses to those who organise such traffic. In 2007, when the government is implementing an extended human trafficking victim assistance service, we are embarking on a longer period of reflection and a better offer, among others. in the ROSA centres, but also increased police efforts, it is my hope that we will raise several issues that will ultimately help reduce the number of human trafficking victims coming to Norway. But then we still have to be aware that they will have a place to travel to, and I hope that Norwegian assistance can also be of good help.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1753	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1597]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1769	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1778	No one disputes the seriousness of this matter. The proposers, Hans Olav Syversen and May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, have focused on the lack of consumer protection in the event of health damage and health problems following the normal use of a consumer product. The proposers ask the Government in particular to consider the Danish legislation, which they consider to be significantly better than the Norwegian one. In order to continue this work, the proposers propose that the Government immediately set up a wide-ranging set of replacement laws, which also represent consumer organisations. The majority of the Committee, the representatives of the government parties, pointed out that the proposers raised an important issue and said that the positions expressed during the hearing on the matter had been taken into account, among others. Consumer Council and Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations. In addition, the majority would like to see a broad assessment of the compensation rules for injuries in general and not just those caused by consumer goods. The majority further point out that the Ministry is considering the issue of setting up a replacement law committee, but that no decision has been taken when such a sample may be set up. The majority ask the Government to inform Storting appropriately about the further work on this matter. The proposers point out that consumer goods such as food and cosmetics can cause health problems and health damage to consumers. The minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Progressive Party and the Right agree that there is a problem that the extent of such health disorders and health damage is not systematically identified. The minority indicates that the National Institute for Public Health has recently published a report which concludes that adverse reactions from cosmetics and skin care products constitute a ‘non-negligible health problem’. The consequences may be a deterioration in quality of life, health care or even hospitalisation. The Public Health Institute estimates that several thousand Nordics experience so serious adverse reactions to cosmetics and skin care products each year that it is necessary to seek medical attention. The State Institute for Consumer Research conducted a survey in 2003, commissioned by the Food Authority, indicating that about 12 pst. the population has had very unpleasant side effects due to the use of cosmetics or toilet articles. Today, however, in this country, if a consumer article causes health damage, it must do much to compensate for the direct economic loss. In order to qualify for men’s compensation, a degree of disability of 15 pst has to be applied in Norway. or more. The threshold for such compensation is higher than in our neighbouring countries, and consumers will very rarely qualify for it in the event of damage caused by a consumer product. In comparison, it appears that in Denmark an invalidity rate of 5 pst is set. as a condition for human replacement. During the consultation within the Committee, broad support was expressed for the need to amend Norwegian replacement rules in favour of the consumer. The minority in the Committee agrees with the proposers, which believe that enhanced replacement legal protection in this area will have a stronger impact on producers and consumer product providers, and contribute to an increased focus on the development of increasingly better and safer products. Furthermore, enhanced protection of claims could result in more consumers notifying of any damage or discomfort suffered by those products. The previous government announced that a replacement law committee would be set up in 2005. The minority in the Committee, like the proposers, are impatient and are now calling for this selection. The minority is disappointed that government parties will settle down on the fact that the government might reduce a replacement law committee. The hearing in the case revealed broad agreement on the need to strengthen Norwegian legislation, and the Consumer Council has pointed out that Norway is actually the worst in the Nordic class. In fact, Finland and Iceland have now introduced rules that provide even better protection for consumers than even Denmark, as suggested by the proposers. Despite this, the government parties are not willing to support the proposal to ask the Government to start the selection work at home. The minority has pointed out that the main purpose of enhanced consumer protection of claims is to contribute to greater accountability at all stages, from producer to distributor, in order to prevent and avoid the greatest possible health and consumer product damage. Before the weekend, the Minister of Health set up what she called a ‘Matkryphos’, in order to be able to handle effectively, for example: E. coli outbreak. The minority does not propose the establishment of a «Cosmetic Ripos», but the estimated extent of health damage and health problems suggests that we actually take such matters seriously and provide effective measures to protect consumers in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1797	The proposal to strengthen the protection of claims against health and health damage is a good one. It turns out that Norway is not so good in this area. We always hear that Norway is a precursor country, but when the reality is there, we are often the worst in the class. That's the same thing here. Both Denmark, Finland and Iceland have better protection and compensation against lasting but or damage. It is sad and incomprehensible that the red-greens will not have a better protection against damage and but. After all, it is common people's protection against the large companies and importers who do not ensure their products well enough that this proposal is really about. Their only comment is that this proposal deals with an important matter. That's what the red-greens have to say in this case. Important organisations such as the Norwegian Asthma and Allergi Associations, the Consumer Council and the Norwegian Women’s and Family Associations share the opinion of the proposers that Norwegian compensation rules are not sufficient in terms of health and harm caused by consumer goods. Another major and, unfortunately, serious matter that also clearly illuminates this, is the tragic E. coli case with Gilde. Should consumers here also be praised by the big companies? A single citizen does not have the resources to sue giant companies that have unlimited means of bringing a case and to sue it further in the system. On the way, the individual man or woman picks up or thanks for what the large companies offer. It is sad that the red-greens do not see that we in Norway actually have the worst protection in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1812	When the Christian People's Party proposed a document no. 8 proposals such as the present one, on enhanced protection of claims against health and health damage caused by consumer goods, were in recognition of the fact that we see a number of effects caused by consumer goods for which no substitute is provided. It is mentioned by the case rapporteur that we are here a little after other countries in this way. Perhaps the most important thing about the proposal is to strengthen manufacturers, because manufacturers feel that there is a penalty here if the goods and services they provide do not meet objectives. Of course, we have general compensation rules, but in too many cases the threshold is too high for such compensation to be addressed. I agree with the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. The proposals of the minority are identical to Document No. The 8 proposal, so of course we support it. We have also noticed that the majority agree that this is a problem that is well worth considering. It is also said that the department has made a good start in assessing whether a replacement law committee will be available. I'm aware that not everyone is saddled and riding the same day, but it might be tempting to ask if there's going to be a ride, or if there's going to be a horse on the stable here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1823	After following the debate today on children and young people in prison, it is okay that in some cases we can take it a little calm even when it comes to the process, without going into the horse sport for that reason. But there is a current proposal against the assessment which has been held for a while in the Ministry of Justice, in the former government and also in the current government. It is obvious that the entire compensation legislation needs a review, and that is what is the motive for the notified assessment of a replacement law committee. I must say that this document No. In any case, the 8 proposal provides important input into the work now being done by the Ministry, whether it is a comfort. Representative Thore A. Nistad would like to be the best in the class. Then I have to say, although Norway is not the best in the class in terms of payments of compensation and, to some extent, the amount of compensation, and it should perhaps be that, for example, The United States is the best in the class, I would probably prefer to sit pretty far in the back of the classroom in that way. It's very much about what kind of society we're going to have, and what kind of social security networks we're going to have when people get problems of some kind or a challenge they haven't had before. I note that the majority of the Committee does not support these proposals in Document No. The 8-proposal, but I'm taking with me the signals that are now coming into the debate. The proposalers and the minority in the Committee seem to believe that the protection of the rights of damages in the event of personal injuries caused by consumer goods is too poor — and indeed almost non-existent. In my view, that's not right. I'll try to clarify it. Consumers may here, as in other areas, be compensated for expenditure incurred, lost income, losses in future acquisitions and losses resulting from future additional expenditure. Not infrequently, such losses could be incurred, and the consumer is then entitled to be compensated by the person who has caused the damage. This is in accordance with traditional Norwegian replacement law, that it is the economic loss of the injured party that is to be required to be replaced. In some cases, however, the assumption that an economic loss is required to be compensated has been waived. For example, there are already rules on men’s replacements, which have been discussed by many. If the injured party has suffered permanent medical injury with a degree of invalidity of 15 p.m., the injured party shall be entitled to men's compensation. However, compensation for non-economic losses is intended to compensate for the injuries and disadvantages that a medical injury can bring. The proposers, to which the minority refers, want – as I understand the proposal – to go even further and compensate for non-economic losses. Firstly, the minority wants the threshold for men’s compensation to be lower than today. As mentioned above, 15 pst are currently required. disability. But as the minority points out, the threshold in Denmark is 5 p.m., and as far as I know, Finland and Iceland have no limit at all. As I understand it, the minority also wants a rule on torture and pangs, such as the one you have in Denmark, or pangs and pain, as it is called in the Danish law. Such sweating and pain replacement shall compensate for discomfort during the course of the disease, regardless of whether any permanent injury occurs. The government is open to a closer look at the arrangements to which the minority refers, although I believe that this can also be pointed to counter-respect. It is not obvious that the right to compensation provides the most effective means if preventive product safety is taken into account. In any case, I believe that the arrangements pointed out by the minority should be seen in a much broader context. In my opinion, there should be no specific investigation of enhanced protection of claims related to consumer damage. I am pleased that the majority in the committee subscribes to such an assessment. And as I said at the outset, we still have the opportunity to make these assessments in a much broader context in the context of a possible future replacement law selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1838	In this setting, the Right Party and the Advance Party have shown that the Food Authority has established a system for the administrative follow-up of reports on adverse effects that may result from the use of cosmetics and body care products. However, there is some uncertainty about funding, and the Right and Advance Party believe that the Minister of Justice now needs to take his/her share of the responsibility to get it in place, so that the National Institute of Public Health can, at the request of the National Food Safety Authority, establish and operate a national register for the monitoring of cosmetic-related adverse reactions. The minority believe that it is reassuring that a system is set up in which the National Institute of Public Health will also assist the Food Safety Authority in determining whether the damage reported is actually due to the use of cosmetics and body care products or whether there may be other causes of the damage. However, as important as recording, this new notification system is well known, so that both health professionals and consumers can actively contribute to the effective recording of adverse reactions. We assume that the registration is quality assurance, so that the data is as reliable as possible. In particular, the Consumer Council has been very concerned about this. The value of recorded data is limited if this information cannot be made available to the public and to consumers. The right-hand side and the front-hand side are concerned with the need for authorities to enable consumers to gain insight into possible pests and injuries from the use of different products. Knowledge of registered adverse reactions is an important prerequisite for the consumer to be able to protect himself against similar adverse reactions. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice whether it is now that the financing of this register has been resolved, or whether the Minister of Justice will take an initiative to put this in order? Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the European Liberal,
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1853	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1856	I feel that we are now bringing the debate to a different topic than what is being discussed in Document No. The 8th proposal. I am not prepared to answer the question that the representative Aspaker is now asking. But I can promise to take it up with my fellow State Councillor who is responsible for this, so that the representative will receive an adequate and adequate response.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1861	The council had a little visit to the Progress Party and thought we were trying to be the best in the class. We are not concerned that the Advance Party should be the best in the class, but we believe that it should be a better protection for the ordinary man and woman in the street – that is what we are concerned about! I would like to ask the Council of State: why has Finland, Denmark and Iceland done so wrong? Is it so that they should make it worse for the common man in the street? Should we not also look at what we do here in Norway, and perhaps do it better for the common man and woman?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1868	I'll answer very briefly. From my point of view, this was an attempt to describe that the societies that currently have the best compensation schemes purely economically, in the sense of getting very high in terms of the amount of compensation, are not necessarily the best societies for those who are struggling, and for those who need help, and that it is often an alternative – the only option – when, for example, it is. the establishment of good social security networks, good treatment provision, good solutions to social reintegration, etc. This should be seen in context, and that is why it is important to have a wide-ranging mandated replacement law that places the national right to compensation in the welfare society in which the right to compensation is to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1876	It is commendable that there is an involvement in consumer protection — and it is important to have sound consumer protection. When the Progress Party points out that they want to go beyond what the government parties have been calling for, it might be nice to remind you of some things from the United States. I recently saw a list from the United States where one drew an example where a woman suffered a fire injury at McDonald’s. She got a million replacement because the coffee was too hot. In another case, a mother fell over her own child in a store, and she then got a million in compensation because the business had not prevented her own child from being in front of her legs when she stumbled. It is this type of rash that is unreasonable to have, for example, in Norway. It is therefore important to have consumer protection that takes care of the interests of consumers, which is not really the type of compensation scheme. In the next round, it is precisely the consumer who will have to take this back through costs related to unreasonable compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1890	Thore A. Nistad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1893	I'll try it! The representative, Mr. Ballo, was in this room, is the thing that the Progress Party has not mentioned at all in any post here. We haven't talked about the United States. We've been talking about our neighboring countries, and there's a little difference between Iceland, Denmark, Finland, and the United States. That Ballo here pulls up McDonald's and a fire damage in the United States is completely gone. There's no one here who's mentioned the United States. But it is clear that SV often lives completely in its own world. What we've done is we've brought up Nordic rules, as they are in Finland, Iceland and Denmark. Then I can't understand why the representative Ballo mentions the United States! But it's clear that when it comes to every thing that has to do with the United States, SV has an embedded U.S. hate, which they have to talk about all the time. We've been talking about the Nordics and the Nordic rules all along, and I can't see that it's very difficult to go into the rules we have in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1902	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1597]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1918	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1925	The case currently under consideration concerns the suspension relating to Document No. 8:66 for 2005-2006, which is a proposal by the deposit representatives Erna Solberg, André Oktay Dahl and Olemic Thommessen on general and general legislation regarding discrimination irrespective of the basis. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, share the views of the rapporteurs that it would be useful to have a more general and general legislation on discrimination than we have today. This will, in the view of the majority, ensure legal certainty for all and ensure equality of law irrespective of the grounds for discrimination. Today, legal protection has spread across several laws, including: equal opportunities law, the Discrimination Act, the Labour Environment Act and the Housing Act, and there is different protection for different groups. The majority would point out that when some grounds for discrimination are mentioned only in some laws, while other grounds for discrimination are subject to the protection of discrimination in the form of their own legislation, there is a need for an overall review so that the protection of discrimination between groups appears to be coordinated, fair and logical. Another majority, the members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, refer to a quotation from the members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in Innst. O. No 71 for 2004-2005, on the Discrimination Ombudsman Act, from the Family, Cultural and Administrative Committee, a quotation drawn from the comments of these parties in the Innst. O. No 69 for 2004-2005 from the Municipal Committee. Here it is said that the members «considers that everyone qualifies for protection under the general prohibition of discrimination on human rights». In the same note, it is noted that both the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights also include the concept of ‘other status’ in their listing of grounds of discrimination. This majority also indicates that the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in the same position express their desire to: ‘point out and clarify that a general law on discrimination shall not replace the existing special protection provided for in, inter alia, the Equality Act; [[...]] The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the SV, are pleased that the Government is to appoint a new legislative committee to enforce an overall anti-discrimination law. The majority refers to letters from the State Council of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion of the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom dated 23 October 2006, in which the letter describes the legislative committee, among others. shall consider whether a single law should include a non-exhaustive list of grounds for discrimination, whether there should be a protection in the Constitution against discrimination, and whether Norway should ratify additional Protocol No. 12 on discrimination against the European Convention on Human Rights. The majority believe that the issues raised by the proposers in Document No. 8:66, is taken up and problematized in the work of the law commission. The majority also assumes that the sample in its work includes the assessments made by various stakeholder organisations, including those from the Human Rights Alliance, and other inputs made to the Judicial Committee during the hearing that took place during the examination of this document. The majority will also refer to the Syse Committee’s proposal for a new disability-related discrimination and accessibility law, which is mentioned in NOU 2005:8, Equivalence and accessibility. Another majority, the members of the Workers' Party and SV, are pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, together with the department concerned, is now working to follow up the proposals of the Syse Committee and that the Government will promote a law of discrimination and accessibility for persons with disabilities for the Stortinget. There are two specific comments in the document, which I would like to assume will be included in the comments of the Right and the Advance Party. I would just like to comment briefly on the fact that the Right's comment has stated that during the end of 2008, work in the Stortinget should be completed, while the majority of the vote emphasises that the work must be given the necessary time, so that permanent protection can be ensured at the end of the work – but then within the period of enlargement in which we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1957	It is an important issue that the proposers are focusing on here today. Being discriminated against is not supposed to be people, but we know that it is. There has been a very good dialogue between various organisations during the examination of this matter, and there have also been many specific instances of discrimination and proposals for solutions. The party of progress considers all people equivalent. The Party of Advancement takes a great deal of distance from discrimination against people based on race, sex, religion or ethnic origin. While the solution may be more general and general legislation on discrimination than we have today, the Progress Party will nevertheless await the Government's efforts to follow up the Syse Committee's proposal, and only then will it decide whether there is a need for a possible general and general law on discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1964	The rapporteur, Mr Ballo, has well explained the need to establish more uniform legislation, which, unlike today, does not rank and distinguish between worthy and unworthy grounds for equality. For it is largely free from some types of discrimination in Norway. Norwegian law prohibits a number of forms of discrimination, but it only protects against discrimination on certain grounds, and on most grounds only in limited areas of society. Inconsistency, contradictions and coincidences are, according to the Human Rights Alliance, leading. Discrimination protection can be said to be based on the principle that some forms of discrimination are more serious than others. It is not the discriminatory action you are subjected to, which determines what protection you have under the law, the decisive thing is who you are and what it is with your person that makes someone discriminate against you. This may even apply to the large minority of ‘most people’ represented by the Progress Party between them, which is different from other politically correct ones, such as: in the previous debate on love in relation to the United States. Even that situation can be covered if you drag it far enough. Otherwise, I register that the Progress Party is ramming up a whole bunch of groups and is ignoring others. It shows the need to clarify this, because in fact, they took their posts and ranked certain groups above and below each other. It shows the need to adopt the type of legislation that does not discriminate and make a distinction between worthy and unworthy actors. The right is pleased that the government parties support the intention of our proposal, and that we have cleared up any internal disagreement with regard to braking and starting this work. I believe that the three prerequisites of the Human Rights Alliance for the mandate of the sample are to be based on the case rapporteur, namely that a non-exhaustive list of grounds for discrimination should be drawn up, and that the sample should ensure that it is not ranked in relation to the basis of discrimination, and that the mandate of the sample should not be limited to just one common law of discrimination, but must apply to all laws that provide for equality and discrimination, in order to harmonise them in relation to the new law on discrimination. In order to ensure the necessary progress, I address our proposal, where we: «by the Government, at the latest by the end of 2008». So there's a question of whether there's enough time. It may be that it is not, but at least the government is under pressure if the Stortinget, against assumption, were to adopt this proposal, so that the government might come back to Stortinget if it does not meet that timetable. Otherwise, as I said, I am very pleased that the rapporteur has been so open and listening, not only to those of us who have promoted the proposal, but also to those organisations who have been here for consultation and who have contacted all the parties in the committee, and that we are in fact broadly united in doing something, so that this minority, which is in different ways a minority, can get a worthy piece of legislation adapted to their situation – that they are not in a group that unfortunately never thought of before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1984	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e1987	I agree with those who have said that this is actually a very important matter. Document No 8:66 concerns something that we're going to be concerned about, and I think it's been interesting posts. Today, legal protection against discrimination is different, depending on the basis of which discrimination is based. Some foundations are covered only by the human rights conventions contained in the Human Rights Act. I agree with the rapporteurs that it is unfortunate that protection against discrimination is fragmented and that the scope of protection varies with what is the basis for discrimination. That is why I want to set up a legislative committee to enforce a single law against discrimination. The aim is to bring together the protection against discrimination into one law and to provide for a more comprehensive protection of discrimination in Norwegian legislation. It is important that a new, collective law does not weaken the protection of the various foundations of today's law. An overall law will also cover the protection of the discrimination of persons with disabilities. However, I do not want work to delay the implementation of a new collective law with the follow-up of the Syse Committee's proposal for a new disability-related discrimination and accessibility law. My department is therefore working, in cooperation with the departments concerned, to establish a protection against discrimination against persons with disabilities. I intend to propose my own discrimination and accessibility laws for people with disabilities for Stortinget in the autumn of 2007. A key issue for the new legislative committee will be to determine what is considered by law to be illegal discrimination and what is acceptable discrimination. In addition to investigating a merger of current laws, the legislative committee shall assess whether more grounds for discrimination should be covered by the law. Whether the prohibition of discrimination contained in the new single discrimination law should be designed as an exhaustive list of grounds for discrimination, a more transparent list or otherwise is also a matter for the selection. In addition to examining and proposing a single anti-discrimination law, the sample shall be examined and shall make a recommendation as to whether protection against discrimination should be enshrined in fundamental law. The Constitution contains no general prohibition of discrimination. The Constitution § 110c contains a general reference to human rights, but individual rights cannot be derived from this provision. In addition, the Constitution contains certain provisions of importance for the protection against discrimination, such as: § 2 on the right to freedom of religion, § 100 on freedom of expression and § 110a on the duty of state authorities to facilitate the development of Sami language, culture and social life. The government will also give the sample a mandate to investigate and make a recommendation on whether Norway should ratify Additional Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Additional Protocol entered into force on 1 April 2005. Norway signed the Protocol on 15 January 2003 but has not yet ratified it. I would like to add that the committee is in contact with the stakeholder organisations in their work. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee says that sufficient time should be given to the work. For me, it is important that the investigation now carried out provides a good basis for the legal work to follow. Initially, the sample will have about two years of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e2004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 1598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e2017	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 2–15. In Case No. 1 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e2057	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for a review of the emergency response based on the National Audit Office’s report and the transfer of responsibilities to regional health companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e2102	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the operating costs of new emergency networks are financed outside the regular operating budgets of the emergency budgets. The Government is asked to submit a proposal for a faster implementation plan in the context of the revised national budget. The plan must also include additional information on the coverage of the new emergency network and details on the possibility of using data communications up to the individual unit.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e4699	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e4722	The Christian People’s Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e4734	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. Here's a correction. In the third line of the proposal, the word ‘it’ shall be replaced by ‘where’ and the proposal shall be replaced by the following: ‘In order to give former juvenile criminals a new chance, the Government asks the Government to investigate a system of eradicating scrolls in cases where the young criminal has not committed serious crimes, or a large number of repeated crimes and, for example, has not committed new crimes for a period of 5 years after the age of 18. For example, the question may be included in the mandate of the sample set up in the St.meld proposals. [[2005-2006]] No 20 As far as the President has registered, the other parties have notified that they will support the proposal of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e4770	During the debate, Elisabeth Aspaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a replacement law committee such as: is given a mandate to assess enhanced protection of claims for consumers who are injured or who are victims of the ordinary use of a consumer product. The selection shall be composed broadly and shall include representatives of the consumer organisations in the sample.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e4796	During the debate, Mr Dahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for general and general legislation on discrimination on an independent basis by the end of 2008 at the latest.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-18.ana.ud631e4890	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
