ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e66	The representatives of Trond Helleland, Eli Sollied Överaas, Inger S. Enger and Terje Aasland, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Olav Akslingen from 25 April until further notice from the Group of the Centre on the leave of the representative Ola Borten Moe from 25 April until 12 May to take part in a study trip to the United States Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Trond Nylende Jær, there is an application to be exempted from meeting at the Stortinge under the representative Ola Borten Moes leave, due to illness. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Tove Linnea BrandvikFor the South Trondelag county: Randie Sollie Denstad2. Randi Sollie Denstad is elected to the Lamentations of the time she meets the representative Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e119	Tove Linnea Brandvik and Randi Sollie The town is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e125	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e137	The representative, Martin Engeset, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e140	On behalf of the representative Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of the «Green Card System» for jobseekers who need specific organisation of the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e145	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e149	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Per Ove Width and myself, I am delighted to propose the development of a new industrial policy strategy for Norwegian participation in international research and development projects in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e154	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e168	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e177	Public sector purchases every year for DKK 240 billion. This is therefore a very important market for business. It is also important that we have a good regulatory framework for public procurement, which stimulates good and efficient procurement. The EEA Agreement obliges Norway to comply with the EU rules on procurement above the set thresholds. In this country, we also have national guidelines, with a national competition threshold of 500 000 kroner. This limit was adjusted from NOK 200,000 by the Bondevik government in September last year, following an announcement that led to a recommendation from Aplan Viak. The Ministry’s hearing in connection with the proposal showed that a large number of hearing aids went in to raise the threshold. A proposal to introduce a simplified notice obligation down to NOK 100000 was also sent out on the hearing. The hearing round showed that a clear majority of hearing authorities were critical and pointed out that the submission would increase resource use and bureaucracy, and that this would in practice mean that the threshold was reduced to NOK 100000. Local authorities were particularly critical, but also purchasing environments and state agencies were critical. The reason for this scepticism may not have been the announcement itself, but it would be difficult to comply with the basic principle of non-discrimination if a large number of offers were made, without an established level playing field below the threshold that we currently have above the threshold. Thus, the Stoltenberg government did not choose to introduce publication obligations below the offer limit, but instead introduced a protocol obligation for all purchases above NOK 100000. This will, in our opinion, satisfy the need for openness, by ensuring that the investigation is carried out, and it will also help to strengthen the procedures of the purchasers. Representatives from the Right have re-submitted a simplified publication obligation. On 15 February the Committee held an open hearing on the matter. Ten organisations and companies participated in the hearing, and many were in favour of the proposal. The Economic and Social Committee has now given its opinion on the matter, which we are presenting today at Stortinget. It is a split option. The majority in the committee, which consists of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, think that we're actually not going to introduce a regulatory system that doesn't quite see the consequences of, and that will be resource-intensive and bureaucratic both for buyers and for businesses. Thus, in the Storting setting, it is not recommended for the majority to be provided at this time. We will await the evaluation of the Minister of Renewal to announce its implementation in 2007, how the adjustment of the threshold has worked, before taking a position on any simplified publication obligation below the offer limit. In the long term, it is a goal for the Workers' Party to simplify the public procurement legislation, which is perceived by many as both complex and square. It is easy to find faults for public buyers, even if they have the best intentions. It is therefore important to focus on measures of competence in this area in the field of public enterprises. It is also necessary to provide meeting places for purchasers and suppliers providing each other with information on the activities and business opportunities, within the scope of legislation. Good purchasing procedures provide professional buyers. It's good for business, and it's good for society otherwise. With this I refer you to the settings of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e196	This is an important matter. It affects many and is about the use of public funds. Many, and especially business organisations, have signalled the need for transparency and fair competition also in the case of smaller purchases. It is a fundamental principle that competition, non-discrimination and transparency should apply to all types of acquisitions and within the different sizes. Transparency and competition help to prevent any suspicions of corruption and camaraderie, and at least that is a very important principle for us in the Progress Party. Now this matter has been dealt with quite thoroughly in the committee, with a number of questions. There have also been hearings that have highlighted this problem. This is stated quite well in the setting, and also in the attachments that follow the case, so I will not affect it. However, the answers to the questions sent to the Ministry show that there may have been some rapid progress, because the question of the level of voluntary advertising of public procurement below NOK 500000 via Doffin answers that no statistics are currently available in this area, and on a number of questions raised by the Committee we have received rather vague answers. We have also received a response that confirms that you are in a grey zone. We get from the minority just to accept that the majority also this time comes forward and defends what the Government has done, but something particularly wise in this matter I don't think it is. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e207	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e210	The public sector purchases goods and services for NOK 240 billion each year, as mentioned by the case-rapporteur. The scope of formal procedural, transparency and competition requirements for these procurements must, of course, be a balance between the objective of fair competition for suppliers' businesses, transparency and transparency in administration, efficient administration and minimum bureaucracy both for purchasers and suppliers, and the existence of systems that provide the general public with the possibility of low procurement costs. Introduction of simplified publication obligations as proposed in Document No 8:12 for 2005-2006 was part of the simplification work of the previous government in relation to purchasing activities. The proposal is closely linked to the raising of the full tendering threshold. In the past, the full obligation to tender under our national legislation went beyond NOK 200000. In order to simplify purchasing procedures both for the local and supplier sectors, the Cooperative Government increased this tender threshold by 150 p.m., up to 500000 kroner, with effect from September 2005. In this way, the procedures for a high number of public procurement procedures were substantially simplified. However, the increase in the tender threshold was to be combined with a number of simpler rules for purchasing less than 500000 kroner. The introduction of a simplified obligation to publish was thus a prerequisite for exempting purchases between NOK 200000 and NOK 500000 from full tendering obligations and an important element of a set of regulatory changes that provided for significant simplification. A simplified publication obligation is an obligation to publish planned purchases on a national Internet database and is very little resource-intensive for the local government sector. In my opinion, the Stoltenberg government has come out quite crooked in the field of procurement after the government change. The government statement states that the tender threshold should be raised from the 500000 kroner at the time of the government statement, up to 1.8 million. kr, which is the EU's absolute minimum transparency requirement for public procurement. The Soria Moria declaration thus aims to ensure that large parts of the public procurement amounting to approximately DKK 240 billion are made without the transparency and competition offered by the tendering legislation. Combined with the non-introduction of a simplified obligation to publish, this would constitute a potential area of freedom of discrimination and could result in quite hopeless conditions for enterprises providing goods and services to the public sector for hundreds of billions of dollars a year. I think this policy is quite incomprehensible. The total lack of reason in this I also believe that the Government has realised, as the tender limit has not been adjusted at all since the government started its work and got involved in the matter. The central federation of municipalities recently organised a seminar entitled ‘Knowledge, friendship, camaraderie and corruption’, an honest and affordable initiative combined with a study showing that 6 pst. of the requested municipalities had experienced corruption or attempted corruption. I think this is a high number, and there's also reason to believe that the real problem is larger than what the study shows, because of course you're trying to hide this kind of illegal activity. Purchasing is a critical situation in relation to the risk of corruption. At the same time, we know that the local government sector is violating the purchasing law over a low shoe. Before Christmas, the NRK could report that two out of three municipal auditors had experienced a breach of the procurement law. The complainant’s complaint subject of public acquisitions, KOFA, is also strongly increasing, and the waiting time for review is seven months. In addition, it is a fact that three out of four complaints are being dealt with. Since the lifting of the tendering threshold, the volume of public procurement has fallen sharply. This creates major problems for businesses. Therefore, it is quite incredible that the first step in this area by the Government is to drop the obligation to publish. It must be a cross-section of the mind that an overall working life is in favour of such an obligation to publish. Business will have neat conditions for their businesses, LO will prevent corruption. Transparency International, an international body working to combat corruption, is strongly critical of the drop in the obligation to publish, because it removes procurement processes from the public, away from transparency, and increases the risk of bad procurement practices. Simplified publication is a national scheme. This does not lead to new obligations for purchases beyond those already laid down in the general legislation. That is why I think it is a bit misleading and not credible when the Government claims that the obligation to publish in itself leads to significantly increased obligations for the municipalities. Of course you have to have a clean treatment even where there are many offers, but I am sure that it will be able to arrange the municipalities in a smooth way and much easier than you would if it were a full obligation to tender. So I find it regrettable that the government parties do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e229	I would like to start by thanking Right for the effort – I kept saying – not for the proposal today, but for the government actually choosing to listen to SV and increase the thresholds. SV was the first on Stortingen to suggest raising the thresholds. This occurred in the debate on competition law in spring 2004. Even though the Right was right at the time, we are pleased that they came up with better thoughts and understood what we were talking about, and turned and raised the thresholds in government, as SV had suggested. So what were our arguments -- and after a while the Right's arguments? Well, competition creates a bureaucracy that is very expensive both for the tenderer and for the buyer, costs in the form of paperwork and bureaucracy for the buyer, but also for the supplier, and especially all the hours that go with all those who don't get the offer. These are the costs and hours to be covered at some point in the future by other future tenderers, and if you see them in the future, they do not count towards lower prices. It's striking to me that there had to be an Aslan Viak report before Right understood this. In the summer of 2004, Aplan Viak delivered a report on the launch of competition in the municipal sector to the then modernisation minister Morten Meyer. The report showed that increasing competition in public procurement did not lead to a reduction in prices. The report also showed that the administrative costs of purchasers and suppliers have increased. That Right chooses not to pass on this logic, I therefore thought it strange. Usually the calculators go hot in the Right, but now it is possible that the Right in the Opposition has got a little more time to think about, and then they should spend that time and the calculator counting on the costs of competition. Then they will probably understand that increasing the use of competition and formalising supply of lower amounts is not necessarily the wisest thing to collect. Then we could have wasted unnecessary time on such suggestions as the plural now rejects. There's a lot of things to learn from this reality. In addition to the said Aplan Viak report, I would like to mention the BI-amunensis Espen Andersen points out about the use of the provision of consulting services, that it tends to attract those who are better at writing cheap offers than at actually solving the problems. At the same time, he writes that rigid supply requirements ensure that a good competence environment stays away from them, because they rather take jobs with less formal requirements and greater demands for results, according to the Evening Post of 2 July 2004. Is there any reason to believe that this does not apply to all areas that Right wants to offer? In DN on 27 November 2003, Roger Pihl from the profiling company TIBE AS wrote that a bid of DKK 400000 quickly leads to costs and paperwork for the companies of nearly 2 million. kr, because 30 enterprises are still using one weekly work to prepare and fill out the offer form. There is no SV to find this, it is an enterprise that admits it. These are the costs that one of these companies will have to cover later. The only thing we can say is that the theory of the Right and the reality of others are two different things. We now know that competitive and supply delays are equally likely to increase costs, increase competition bureaucracy, lower quality and reduce long-term sustainability. I am therefore pleased that the government party is wise and reject the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e244	In this case, in the Christian People's Party, we have conducted a review and a reflection of the advantages and disadvantages of a control/bureaucratic system against the easier to give opportunities for camaraderie and other unfortunates, what we should say, corruption-like conditions. I'm a little surprised at the government party – yes, I'm happy, because it's positive that they believe in the good in man, which they express in a note on pages 2 and 3, I wish it had been expressed more often. But at the same time, I'm a little surprised that they have seen similarities between preventing corruption and camaraderie and giving the impression that corruption in public is widespread, and that this is going to be an 'accusation' against Norwegian business. No, but at the same time, it might be wise not to stick your head in the sand, but to focus on the world in which we live, as she appears to most of us. It's not likely that we've had some bad cases, which we should have wondered about, when it comes to public procurement, and it's so short in time that concluding something else than what the minority proposal is about will be giving the wrong signal, in our opinion. We have also stressed that in business, and especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, there are many who are positive towards a simplified publication obligation. They think it will ensure market access, and that will make it easier. We have also noted that both the LO and several other national organisations have agreed that there should be a simplified publication obligation. From this point of view, we have concluded that we believe it is both right and reasonable to support the minority proposal to introduce a simplified disclosure obligation when purchasing below the thresholds. In our opinion, something else will be giving a signal that we do not want to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e251	On the part of the Centre Party, we will emphasise the socio-economic importance of stimulating good and efficient public procurement. As several have mentioned, the extent of public procurement from countries and municipalities is formidable, approximately. 240 billion a year, and with the large scale of this system, it is clear that the organisation of it and its procurement legislation have a significant impact on resource use in countries and municipalities, but not least on the ability of industry – especially small and medium-sized enterprises – to participate in tendering processes. Thus, the public market is an important market for Norwegian business which requires vigilance, fair rules, transparency and control in a reasonable way. The question of introducing a simplified obligation to publish below the national threshold was open to consultation last autumn. A clear majority of the hearing bodies, in particular the municipalities, were critical of the proposal, pointing out that it would increase resource use and red tape, and that in the event that it would reduce the real threshold to DKK 100000, which would be contrary to the change that has now been adopted. Moreover, I would like to stress that in 2007, the Government will carry out an evaluation of the functioning of the raising of the threshold and how to raise the threshold further in accordance with the Soria Moria Declaration. In this respect, it is important now to await this review before considering the possible introduction of a simplified publication obligation below the threshold. Finally, I would like to point out that public procurement is also important for the industry in the districts. As we continue to work, we need to simplify and red tape purchasing systems to make it as easy as possible for small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. for businesses in the districts, to also participate in public procurement and thus have the opportunity to secure activities and jobs around. The formalisation of tenders for lower sums, which this proposal will entail, could therefore exclude some small enterprises which do not have the administrative resources of larger enterprises. So we're going to go in for the setting that's now presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e264	The left is concerned that small and medium-sized enterprises should also be able to compete for the sale of goods and services to the public. We believe that by not having a simplified public purchase obligation of less than NOK 500000, we deny many of these companies these possibilities. During the hearing, it was found that the companies did not fear that this legislation, which is so simplified that it would not lead to much more work for the managers and those to calculate the supply, would increase red tape or make it so difficult. I choose to listen to those who sit with this. When you hear the SV representative here, say that the costs of those who will count on the offer are too large when they agree to count on the offer, it's completely reversed for me. The most expensive thing for an enterprise is not to be in competition and not to be able to sell goods and services. In any case, it would be the safe death of small and medium-sized enterprises if they did not have the opportunity to participate in competition. We don't think that's the way it's supposed to be, that these companies have the greatest potential. We believe that you need to have a private knowledge to access the public purchases that are less than NOK 500000. That is why, of course with the proposers, we are calling for this to be done. I am in general a little surprised at the government party in this matter, which would like to, as the leader of the nutrition committee has now explained, promote District Norway and the businesses in the districts. It's just these companies that are not allowed to compete, if we don't facilitate it. After all, it must be important not only for the government party, but also for the rest of us, to facilitate good regional industries. Now the government has not completely locked the door, as I read the paper, since an evaluation is to be made when the evaluation is done. I very much hope that another evaluation will be made when the evaluation comes, so that these simplified rules are opened. The left is very concerned that we should not have difficult rules and a big bureaucracy, but based on what we heard, this will not lead to so much bureaucracy that it will create problems for businesses. I don't fully understand the great scepticism that is for this. I hope, as I said, that the government's party will take this up again at a later date, and that we will have the opportunity to join in and back it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e277	The government has recently submitted a new and improved public procurement legislation. In this work, we have also assessed whether to introduce a simplified publication obligation below the national threshold of NOK 500000. The public makes purchases, many of which have been made, for over 200 billion dollars each year. Therefore, it is socio-economically important to stimulate good and efficient public procurement. It is also important for business, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, that open purchasing processes are implemented to ensure market access for the enterprises. However, the benefits of a disclosure obligation for small purchases must be assessed against the administrative costs that the disclosure obligation may entail, and not least the level of simplification. After the simplified public disclosure hearing, a clear majority of hearing authorities were critical of a simplified obligation to publish because it would lead to increased resource use and increased bureaucracy. Announcement of minor purchases will be able to report a large number of interested suppliers. Public procurement law provides inter alia: requirements for equal treatment, traceability and transparency in the handling of supply. In order to manage a large number of interested suppliers and supply in accordance with these requirements, additional procedures and pressures on the development of additional rules could easily be required. So it's not the obligation to publish in isolation, to place a purchase on Doffin, which is the challenge, but to handle 30, 40, 50 stakeholders in the same publication. That is what many buyers experience as labour-intensive and bureaucratic. A simplified publication obligation must be assessed in relation to the level of the national threshold. This was raised from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000 on 9 September last year by the previous government. The sitting government has chosen to continue its level. Then, over a two-year period, we will carry out an evaluation of how this has worked. In connection with that evaluation, we will re-assess whether it is unlikely to impose a publication obligation on purchases of less than NOK 500000, or more than NOK 500000 if a well-increased threshold is further increased. In this context, we will also review the level of the national threshold. It has also given us room to develop a regulatory framework around simple publishing that both purchasing and business know exist. We can't be so sure that 40 providers are insecure and start asking questions about the decision of a municipality, because one has not had a set of rules in place. Then a newspaper writer, suspecting, etc. will begin, and it will quite obviously be very soon to make demands, not least from the local authorities' side, which cannot be such that a person is suspicious of having chosen what he has chosen. We don't talk about municipalities that get three-four providers. We're talking about municipalities and large healthcare companies that get 30, 40, 50 providers, and that need a set of rules in that context. In Document No: The 8 proposal points out that not introducing simplified notices is building up the regulatory framework to prevent corruption. It's at best a simplification. The Code on Public Procurement is one of several measures aimed at preventing corruption. In addition to simplifying the legislation, we thus have increased compliance with the legislation by proposing to impose sanctions in the event of breaches of the obligation to publish, so-called illegal direct purchases. The proposal will lead to public works being charged a fee of up to 15 pst. the value of the purchase. Furthermore, the Government of the new regulation on public procurement has introduced an obligation to keep a record of all purchases above NOK 100000. It will help to strengthen the procedures of purchasers and ensure transparency in public procurement. The size has to deal with a proposal for a new public law with the corresponding regulations, which proposes to amend the rules so as to increase transparency in public procurement. In addition to public procurement rules, it will be important to ensure transparency and comparability of public procurement. Then I would like to stress that there may be various reasons for breaches of the legislation. A difficult piece of legislation and a lack of competence are two of them. Therefore, it is important that public enterprises invest in empowerment. We know that KS is continuously working to improve the follow-up and understanding of the legislation in the municipalities. In addition, my department has just started working with a new law counsellor. There are measures that, in total, will help to improve the enforcement of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e295	It's going to be line change. After the new procedure, a cord change shall be made from the intercoms down to the floor. The Council of State must stand by the interlocutory near the President's office and ask the other. It's hard during the drive-in period!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e302	Thank you for your guidance! I note that the party trap of the Council of State, Hallgeir Langeland, still lives a little in opposition, both in relation to the previous government and in relation to the new government. I would like to draw the attention of the representative, Langeland, to the fact that the new government has not at all changed the tendering limit in relation to what was the policy of the previous government. It's totally stuck. What is a bit strange fact is that in the government statement, which was made after the tender threshold was raised to 0.5 million. kr, the government says you're going to raise it to 1.8 million. kr, a dramatic change in the entire purchasing law. Can the Council of State explain to me and the representative of Langeland what is the reason why the Government does not take this step as they are mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration, but on the contrary does a long assessment process, which is to go over two years, set in motion in relation to whether to increase the tender threshold at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e313	It should be my pleasure to inform the representative Hansen. The new government came to October 17th, a month after one had raised the threshold. There was no reason to create new unrest around raising the threshold after just one month. This government is busy with long-term business. We have four years to implement the Soria Moria Declaration. So we chose not to raise the threshold again after just one month, but to keep the threshold. Then we've communicated very clearly according to that within two years, that is, before the end of 2007, we're going to review the threshold again. We're going to continue working on a set of rules around simple publishing, and the government is going to review how we can advance towards what's in Soria Moria, and what rules we need around it in order not to get too much inconvenience, for example. corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e322	I have two questions for the Council of State. The one thing goes on the change that was made, and is a follow-up of that representative before I asked for it. After all, the government has followed up that change by keeping the threshold still at NOK 500000. But one assumption and the basis for that was that it would be a simplified order for purchases between NOK 100000 and NOK 500000. Does not the government think that it is going to be difficult and skew when this is not followed up? So to question number. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is busy with good finances for the municipalities. Does the Council not see that the fact that municipalities are not encouraged to compete even for purchases between 100 000 and 500000 will mean that there will be less money for municipalities to travel with to the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e331	There was no intention, nor from the Bondevik government, that one should introduce a simplified notice when one first launched that one should increase the threshold. It was the hearing round about raising the threshold that caused some hearing authorities to record to the Government about introducing a simplified announcement. So it came into the listening round, which then led to the government deciding to raise the threshold. Then there was a new hearing, where the simplified announcement was up to discussion. That hearing round was the new government in a way inherited and had to follow up. We have listened to the majority of hearing authorities, who warn against introducing simplified notices like the proposal at that time, because it would have seen both businesses, business and, not least, public buyers in a lawless state, very soon with demands for bureaucracy. So to the other thing, being busy with community economics. Yes, you are not the least of the municipalities themselves. So it's clear that simplifying, building up bureaucracy, is an important part of giving municipalities better finances and releasing money for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e340	I think the Council of State, and so far the rapporteur of the case, has had a rather misleading description of the consultation process that has been, because the number of municipalities that have opposed this obligation to publish has been mentioned. That would be the same thing as counting the number of individual companies in the NHO system that want such a publicity obligation. In fact, large parts of the business community, LO – the trade movement – and organisations working against corruption are clearly in favour of such a simplified obligation to publish. It's a fact that 6 pst. Of the municipalities in this country, they report that they have experienced corruption or attempted corruption, and it is a fact that we have had many major issues related to this in Norway, which means that we may all be looking at the issue of corruption with slightly different eyes. The Council of State is not at all concerned that so many purchases of this type are excluded from the public domain can actually lead to a higher risk of corruption in Norwegian municipalities, such as Norway. LO is?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e349	Let me start by correcting the representative Hansen, because this is not how these purchases are now excluded from the light of the public. I'm going to strongly reject that. Just by imposing a protocol obligation on all purchases over NOK 100000, both transparency and transparency are linked to each individual purchase, because actual purchases are required to keep a record of and make good on what kind of measures have been taken, such as: in order to ensure effective competition in the contract. So it's going to be $100,000 and it's going to be $100,000 and it's going to be $100,000 and it's going to be $100,000. The second thing is, yes, of course we're busy with corruption, but we don't have to equate it with raising the threshold to 500,000 kroner, because it's going to increase corruption. I feel that servicemen, whether in municipalities or in state budgets – public purchasers – are of course out to follow the code, they do 99 pst. We have simplified legislation so that it would be easier to follow it, and they are all, most of them, purchasers with pure flour in the bag who are just out to do a good job, so that the municipality or the public department gets a good purchase and saves money on that purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e356	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e361	With extensive experience from municipal activities, I am well aware of what is being said about what we have today is perceived as complicated and bureaucratic. Although most participants in the open hearing of the nutrition committee were in favour of the present proposal, the extensive consultation round of the ministry last autumn showed that a clear majority of the hearing bodies were critical. They pointed out that the proposal would increase resource use and bureaucracy, and that it would in practice mean that the threshold would be reduced to NOK 100000. The municipalities were particularly critical. The reason for this scepticism was not the obligation to publish, but uncertainty about how to handle the large amount of offers that could then be received. If you end up with the same rules below the threshold as we have today, the upgrading of the threshold last year was to no avail. There has to be a correlation between what is to be purchased and what is required for the acquisition procedures. Too strict requirements for relatively small purchases will mean a disproportionate amount of resource use both for enterprises and for purchasers. I would also like to distance myself from what is said that a notice obligation is necessary to prevent corruption. My experience is at least that municipal buyers are skilled professionals who do what they can to make the best use of taxpayers' money. Nor do I think there is any reason to fear that the part of the business that deals with the public sector in this country is more likely to corrupt than the other business. I would say that there are often misunderstandings or misinterpretations that are the background for most cases where there is a breach of procurement law. But it is important that municipalities professionalise their purchasing function. In South-Trundellag e.g. many of the municipalities have concluded a cooperation agreement with the county in order to professionalise the purchasing function and to become a strong player who receives a good price. The good planning of purchases and transparency of processes contribute to improving the quality of public services and to good financial management in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e378	It may sometimes appear that the aim of the civil parties is to minimise the efficiency of public activities, and then to criticise the public sector for the lack of efficiency. Apart from the fact that the proposers in this case see a presumptuously corrupt public official in any public procurement, a line goes from the modernisation efforts of the previous government parties in the public administration, with a rigorous distinction between ordering and performing, to today's proposal for a tender obligation for purchase up to NOK 100 000. So even if this is called a simplified notice, the proposal in practice represents a tightening of one that is already very rigorous. We have seen many examples of the bureaucracy that this legislation actually represents. I remember that when the previous government set up the state contractor company Mesta, the company was supposed to have total exemption from the rules on public procurement, because these rules were considered to be a significant competitive disadvantage. It itself underlines the need to simplify and clean up a bureaucratic regulatory framework. Now there are many ways to buy, including in the public sector. Once the Government has raised the direct purchase thresholds to 0.5 million. kr, it is necessarily of no importance for the transparency and transparency of purchases. On the other hand, it may be very important for local authorities to be able to conduct local business policies, and it is a side of this matter that, in my opinion, must also be given importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e385	I would strongly like to distance myself from the claim made by the representative Steinar Gullvåg that from the former government parties we regard all municipal buyers as potential criminals. That's not what it's all about, at least not for the Left's part, when we go in for a simplified scheme. Small businesses and medium-sized enterprises are located in municipalities, and the municipalities depend so much on the municipality economy to be good and a living community life and a living district Norway, which is the main cause of the left. It's not that we want to criminalize the buyers. There are a lot of great people in your municipality. I myself have worked as a spokesperson for six years in a municipality, and I have nothing to put on anyone. But what we see is that it's always easier to stick to a code and a requirement than to take the excuse that it's not necessary to do it, and that we take the easiest way. Most municipalities today have purchasing cooperation that facilitates this work quite effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e393	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e411	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1936]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e431	In March, the Foreign Affairs Committee visited the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in Vienna. The UN Organisation is strongly committed to combating increasing and uncontrolled trafficking in human beings in Europe – a trafficking in human beings by cynical mafia from Ukraine, Russia, Kosovo or other European countries – or, for that matter, African countries. UNODC is perhaps best known for its advertising films in Norway. We remember the short entries with strong scenes of forced prostitution and slave labor. Often, children are involved. Common to the difficult matter with which the organization is working is that the victims are either threatened or lured to the hell they are in, or they are simply kidnapped and forced into slavery or prostitution. The UNODC has concentrated on two forms of trafficking in human beings: the girls who are forced to be sex slaves in Western Europe, and the children who are sold as free labour at farms and on plantations. However, there is a third category: children who are sold for their internal organs to be used for transplantation. I come here to essentially concentrate on the prostitution part and the trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is defined by NATO as one of several new threats to peace and stability. The OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has also developed an action plan on trafficking and trafficking in human beings. The OSCE is particularly active in post-Soviet areas, in the Caucasus and Central Asia, but also in the Balkans and in countries such as Moldova, Armenia, Ukraine and Belarus. Here in Oslo, just outside the main building, work – every night and every night – sex slaves from among others. Moldova, Ukraine and Nigeria as involuntary prostitutes. At least they start at 0:00. 18 and often have to wait till 6 p.m. 6-7 in the morning. Many of them have to pay between NOK 90 000 and NOK 100 000 each month to a backer, who then sends the money to powerful mafia networks, among other things. in Eastern Europe. These girls are subjected to violence, assault and threats. They're locked up, and they don't know anything about the city they work in. A lawyer who has some of these girls as clients for asylum applications told me that they had heard about the welfare and welfare country of Norway from their home country. They had read about Holmenkollen and the beautiful Norwegian fjords at school. In Oslo they have never seen either Holmenkollen or – for that matter – Tøenbadet. They know nothing about welfare systems. They are humiliated every night and every night at the most. They are humiliated like humans, as individuals, they are taken from their personal integrity. What these girls experience from Norway are men who buy their bodies. They experience assaults and violence and brutal backbitings and hallucinations. If they try to get off, it means represals for the family in their home country, and this is of course one of the root of the problem. A Ukrainian girl who tried was first beaten up. Then the mafia abducted her little sister in her home country and threatened to kill her. Another girl who fled home experienced violence by Ukrainian border police when she returned home. These are drawings at a law firm in Oslo. Will the Foreign Minister take up with Ukraine and Moldova that trafficking is totally unacceptable and breaches of fundamental human rights? Some recently saw the documentary about girls from Moldova who were sold as sex slaves to brothels in Turkey. The Ukrainian mob was behind it. It is important in the dialogue Norway has with countries like Ukraine, but also the Baltic countries, that trafficking in human beings is addressed as a fundamental issue of human rights. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe must also demand these countries, where trafficking must be seen as all other trampling on fundamental human rights and violations of democratic rights. The girls operating in Oslo Centre are slaves to the welfare society of Norway. They're the result of international crime, but also because there's a market here. In the Swedish parliament, a group of male parliamentarians has started against the purchase of sex. So from this pulpit I would ask my male colleagues to go out in the media and encourage men to abstain from the abuse of foreign girls that happens in our middle of every night. I also think it is important that male politicians engage in this matter, and not just us girls. Therefore I will also give commendation to the committee leader Olav Akselsen for his clear play in the newspaper a few weeks ago. Some of the girls are applying for political asylum. They should, in my opinion, get that. Although we do not accept ordinary asylum seekers from Moldova and Ukraine, these prostitutes are in a very special situation. It's demanding, this. Girls must have a new identity in addition to asylum. In fact, there are examples in Oslo today that girls who have been asylumed are still forced into prostitution by their old behinders because the family is exposed to represals if they don't. It is important that the international community intensify police cooperation to bring about organised crime and international trafficking in children and women. It is also essential to establish an international law and agreements to equate trafficking in children and women with other crimes against humanity, with the corresponding international prosecution of trafficking in women and other trafficking in human beings. It is important that Norway supports – politically and economically – the work done by both UNODC and the OSCE to combat trafficking and trafficking. We also need to cooperate with non-governmental organisations such as the EU. Coalition Against Trafficking in Women. The organisation's aim is to increase knowledge and develop strategies on trafficking to combat this in Europe. They have a project that is now being run in 12 countries, and like Sweden, among others. is strongly involved in. Norwegian business is involved in several of the countries where these girls come from. And to take a non-European country, Nigeria, Norwegian oil companies are strongly inside. The Norwegian authorities may need to require these companies to address with the Nigerian authorities the need to take important steps to stop the mob sending Nigerian prostitutes to Europe. We make demands on these companies regarding human rights, for example. in Iran, and we have had a debate on this. I think it is important that we look at trafficking and trafficking in human beings as the same type of violation of human rights as other violations of democratic rights. A European action plan on trafficking needs to be considered, and NATO and the EU need to address the problem in its entirety. As far as I know, the EU is developing a common policy in this area. There is also a need for us to be involved within the limits that we, of course, have as far as foreign countries are concerned. I would also like to add that, in the context of cross-border cooperation in Europe, on this issue, we do not escape a debate on the prohibition of the purchase of sexual services. That is also in an EU context. State attorney Kaia Strandjord says to Dagbladet’s websites on 19 April – she was the one who was convicted of the backers of Trondheim – that the pimps who hit Trondheim first evaluated Germany, Sweden and Finland before choosing Norway. And on the other hand, ‘The Estonian backendman was very pleased that the sale of sexual services was legal in Norway. He examined this before he started his business here, she says. She believes that Norway must now follow Sweden and Finland, which have introduced or are in the process of adopting laws against the purchase of sex respectively.’ When the Foreign Affairs Committee was in Stockholm, trafficking was recorded in meetings with both the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee, the Swedish Defence Committee and the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council. Yes, it was actually our Swedish colleagues who raised this issue with us from Norway. In Sweden, politicians are very concerned about the matter. Sweden wants to cooperate on the issue in the EU and works internally in the EU. In Sweden, politicians too believe – there are probably shared views – that the legal ban works. Fewer foreign prostitutes now operate in Sweden. They've been transferred to Norwegian cities. Prohibitions have always been preventive. Therefore, we must dare to take this debate on the criminalisation of the purchase of sex. But that doesn't mean we're going to conclude right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e485	The representative, Marit Nybakk, has raised a topical and important theme – a partly shocking theme – on which the Government is very concerned. Trafficking in human beings is today a global business driven by the profits of the billions class. This is probably the second largest source of organised crime income. Open borders, corruption and money laundering make this trade possible. Poverty and economic imbalances in the country of origin ensure the recruitment of more and more victims. As the representative has described, trafficking in human beings is unacceptable and the most degrading form of violence. For children, it is extra bad – they are deprived of their childhood, care, education and many other rights that all children are entitled to under all norms and conventions. Violence against women and children cannot be tolerated. The problem is far-reaching. Only in Europe is it estimated that about 300,000–500,000 women and children are shut down every year in the prostitution market. We're talking about a group of the sizes of Oslo's population. It's shocking. Worldwide, the numbers look even worse. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) assumes that approx. 2.5 million women and children every year are victims of trafficking in human beings. The dark numbers are pretty big, but we have to assume that reality is darker, or maybe even darker. All of this tells us that we must view trafficking in human beings as a serious threat to our societies and our values, to our democratic, humanistic values, and to the very essence of human dignity. And I want to say that this is also part of the security policy, in the time we live. All European countries are currently affected, either as destination, transit or country of origin. Given the cross-border nature of this phenomenon, it is correct, as the representative Nybakk points out, that the problem needs to be addressed both nationally and internationally. This government aims to help eradicate trafficking in human beings both in Norway and abroad — we cannot have any other ambition. I have stressed that the work for an international legal order is a key element of the Government's foreign policy. It's most applicable here. For this we have a national action plan that the Government of these days is in the process of being revised. Several departments and underlying agencies are involved in the implementation of this, with a view to as coordinated an approach as possible and comprehensive a policy as possible. It is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for coordination. Let me then go a little further into what instruments and tools the Government is using to combat international trafficking in human beings. First of all, to the frameworks and instruments of international law: we have joined the international framework against trafficking in human beings, because there are, as the UN Palermo Protocol against Trafficking in Human Beings, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention against All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Norway has signed the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, and we propose that Norwegian ratification can take place by the end of this year. With this convention, we will have a strong regional and international legally binding instrument to both persecute the criminals, prevent recruitment and protect the victims. We have to follow this up. Norway has also been the initiator and driver of other legislation, such as NATO’s Guidelines for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings in Peacekeeping Operations and the OSCE Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings. The latter has received a separate supplement on the protection of children. We are actively involved in regional cooperation under the auspices of the Baltic Sea Council, the Barents Council and the Nordic-Baltic working group against trafficking in human beings. We support many international organisations, as the representative has said, who put the fight against trafficking high on the agenda – the OSCE and the UNODC, to which it was referred. The European Union is also developing Community policies to combat trafficking in human beings. We therefore expect in the future to be able to cooperate directly with the EU in this area as well, of course. This will also be a natural extension of the Schengen cooperation in which Norway participates. In addition, Norway has a third-country agreement with Europol, which has a central role to play in combating organised crime in the EU area. Conventions and action plans are important tools in international efforts to combat trafficking in human beings; we must stick to them, but that is not enough. In addition, we need to focus on the concrete measures that matter to the victims in their everyday lives and on their ability to get out of the debasing situation. The action plan against trafficking in human beings earmarks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget for up to 90 million. for actions outside Norway. In this context, we support measures aimed at reducing recruitment in countries of origin. One example of this is information campaigns that warn young women against believing in provocative jobs in Europe. The establishment of safe housing for victims, medical and psychological assistance and other rehabilitation measures are also among the instruments we prioritise. Victims need to be given help for a new start and active follow-up so that they avoid being recruited again by traffickers. International police cooperation is, of course, very important here. We see that the backers are becoming increasingly cynical and advanced in recruitment methods, cross-border transport and the falsification of documents. Close and coordinated police cooperation at practical level is a prerequisite for success here, and this is given priority by the Government. We will continue our police cooperation with several of the countries of origin, with emphasis on the countries of the Baltic States and Russia. We support the building of competences in trafficking in human beings in the justice and police sectors in the Balkans. And we work multilaterally through international organisations such as Interpol, Europol and Eurojust. In this context, I will also refer to the efforts of the Government to combat international corruption. This is linked to each other. The fight against trafficking in women and children represents a long-term effort, not least in reducing the underlying causes, such as poverty, conflict, social disparity and marginalisation. Norwegian development policy focuses on strengthening women’s and children’s rights, including right and effective access to land, property and education. The government has chosen to increase aid efforts, precisely to strengthen women’s position so that they become less vulnerable to recruitment. We are particularly concerned that children in developing countries will be given good growth conditions, free from exchange and abuse. As you know, trafficking in human beings is not something that happens only in other countries. The extent of this in Norway, no one can say with certainty, but the representative Nybakk has pointed to some very meaningful examples — even close to where we are now. In recent years, we have seen a clear increase in foreign prostitution in Norwegian cities. Not everyone is a victim of human trafficking, even though the business is clearly organized. The government emphasises outreach work in the prostitution community and developing good practices to identify victims of trafficking in human beings. We are facing a particular challenge in catching up minors. In addition to helping the women who want to get away from the street, we have to look at the demand side. The Ministry of Child Equality and Equal Opportunities has launched an information measure aimed at purchasers and potential buyers. The aim is to contribute to a change of mind and focus on the relationship between the purchase of sexual services and trafficking in human beings. So to the discussion of criminalisation. I agree with the representative Nybakk that this is an important discussion, although it is too early to conclude. There are examples of pro forma marriages having as their primary objective the exploitation of the woman after she has come to Norway. Norwegian foreign stations are trying to warn potential victims through targeted information. The rights and obligations of entry into Norway and the available assistance services are briefed. The so-called reflection period, which temporarily legalises residence in Norway for foreign victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway, has been used poorly. We want this scheme to become a more active instrument to help victims of trafficking in human beings out of this situation, as well as an instrument to facilitate the conduct of investigations and criminal prosecution of the perpetrators. We rely on the victims to cooperate with the police so that matters can be reported. They must be willing to witness. Work is currently in progress to revise this scheme. It is assessed, inter alia, in the following ways: to extend the period of reflection in relation to the current 45-day system and to extend the rights of persons granted such a period at the same time. However, it is too early to conclude here. The largest groups of foreign prostitutes are Nigerian women. There is reason to believe that most are or have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. This is also a group legally residing in the Schengen area. The U.D., together with the foreign authorities and two non-governmental organisations, has just completed a study trip to Nigeria to look at this problem. The conclusion is that there are good opportunities for cooperation with the Nigerian authorities on return measures for victims of trafficking in human beings. This is positive, and we'll follow it on. I would like to conclude by saying that we are facing major challenges at many levels in combating trafficking in human beings. This applies both in Norway and globally. We've come a little bit, but it's a long way to go. This can sometimes shine like a work on the uphill, where the counterpowers are strong, but we don't have a choice, because it's about fundamental values and about man's dignity. I can guarantee that this work will continue to be a high priority for the Government, and that Norway's voice will be heard in the international struggle against this which is the slavery of our time. And let me answer directly to Nybakk's question about Ukraine and Moldova: I have myself planned a visit to Ukraine during the spring, and will of course take this up. The Minister of Justice has been in Moldova, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is planning a political trip to Moldova during the spring. This will be recorded. I will reach the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting on Thursday and Friday, where Ukraine is also on the agenda, and where Ukraine wants membership in NATO. Action in this area is not now of the criteria that NATO is considering to qualify for admission. But I think it belongs in the discussion of what cooperation we can have with the hopeful democratic Ukraine that is now evolving. So I'm going to look for an opportunity, also there, to mention this question, and pursue it further with Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e566	First, I must thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, and also for the Minister's clear statement that the Government's aim is to help eradicate human trafficking both in Norway and abroad, and that the work on an international legal order is a key element of the Government's foreign policy. And so I'm particularly pleased with what he said about granting money to international work against trafficking, but also that he's aiming to address this issue both when representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs go to Ukraine and Moldova, and also at NATO's forthcoming meeting. I think it is absolutely essential that this is now emphasised in all the international forums in which we operate, but especially in relation to those countries where some of these girls have their origins. The UN Organisation against Drug Crime, UNODC, as I mentioned in my first post, stresses in its global action plan against trafficking that trafficking in human beings has become one of the most important challenges for international society and one of the most profitable activities of criminal groups worldwide in the last decade. They also stress that trafficking and trafficking benefit and abuse conflicts, disasters and the vulnerability of people in crisis situations. Maybe we should keep that in mind. This is why developments in these countries are very important. Therefore, we must also try to cooperate with the countries from which the girls come — as in the 2002 Nordic-Baltic campaign against trafficking in human beings. We need to focus more on relief measures to the extent that we get to it, for example. in a country like Moldova, one of the poorest in the world, from which many of the girls are recruited. It can include continuing training, further training and retraining. Then I am pleased that Norway has signed the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings and that Norwegian ratification can take place by the end of 2006. I think it is important that the Council of Europe makes as tough demands on the Member States as they do on trafficking in relation to general violations of human rights and democracy. In addition, as far as I know, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Easter adopted an opinion on stopping trafficking in front of the football World Cup – that is expected to be 30,000 foreign prostitutes, many of them as young as 13-14 years old. So the opinion is directed at FIFA, and requires them to take responsibility, and several of us should follow it up. However, I believe that in Europe, the EU has the necessary means to do something about trafficking. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained that the EU was developing a common policy to combat trafficking in human beings. It is important that we take part in this work as far as we, as foreigners, are able to do it – but Schengen, in any case, can be used where it is natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e579	I will be very brief in my reply, because I agree with all that the representative Nybakk has mentioned, and I would like to stress the importance of her doing so. Because, as pointed out, we can do a good deal through conventions and measures and the kind of formal things. But this is basically a very important issue of attitude in our own country as well. And I'm afraid in this kind of case that we're too focused on everything that's happening out there. But as the representative Nybakk mentioned, and as I was also in my post, this has a demand page and an offer page. I noticed what she said in relation to the responsibility men must take here, and I noticed it in that way that I think not only there are men in this room in connection with this house, but also men in the house I am sitting in, who should think more thoroughly about this, and show solidarity with the girls this is about. As mentioned, they're the first thing we meet when we leave this building in the evening, and that illustrates a lot of that proximity. So there's one thing I'm going to take to myself, and think about whether we shouldn't also make a mark on. It's very good that women focus on the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings, but it's going to be a distorted picture if only women are going to do it. We men, who are engaged in this matter, must also show the way. I think it's very important here, and this is probably an example of what we're really saying every day, that foreign policy and domestic policy are slipping into each other. Here, at least, these girls are in many ways themselves the messengers of that link by being picked up from land using violence, threats and extortion to be brought into the misery they are in. I also want to say from this pulpit that the previous government did important work in this area and took the initiative that it has been natural and important for us to continue. It emphasizes that this is a question where we will be very concerned to have a broad consensus and a broad societal focus that brings together as many parties and political directions as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e588	Trafficking in human beings, or trafficking, is an increasing problem. There are many numbers in many statistics on this topic. Unfortunately, it is difficult to say for sure how many are affected by this industry, but we know that the scale is increasing. And we know – and see – that it is also about Norway. We therefore need to raise awareness of the theme and a wider and wider public debate, both on the principle of trafficking in human beings and on measures to combat it. We ask someone what the term 'trafficking' means, and about who it affects, most people would say that there are women who are traded with, and that the purpose is prostitution. That's right, but it's far from the full and the whole truth about who the victims are, and about what the purpose of the trade is. The public debate on trafficking at home focuses somewhat unilaterally on women who were prostitutes. Those who may be hit hardest, who really have no voice, and who really have no flexibility, namely the children who are being traded, are often forgotten. The UN believes that about 1.2 million children become victims of trafficking every year. But the numbers of darkness are, of course, great, and you're assuming there's been a dramatic increase in recent years. We have these children here in Oslo as well, on the street right outside the Stortinget – prostituted girls aged 15–16–17. Little girls and little boys are sold as cheap labor around the world. In the debate on action against such trafficking in human beings, we must not forget that the background to this growing industry is poverty and powerlessness. The children who are victims here often come from poor and vulnerable situations in countries with high unemployment, great social differences and distress. Most of them have no experience in school and education. Many are stolen, simply, and sold. Others are lured with promises of well paid jobs elsewhere. Often the behinders convince the parents that their children are going to have a better life and new opportunities somewhere else. In reality, it often ends up in direct slave labor. Children are particularly vulnerable and are particularly vulnerable to violence, assault and psychological damage. It doesn't take long to break down a child. Most people never get along. Some take their own lives. Apart from poverty and hopelessness — as a starting point for trafficking in human beings — the main reason for this industry is, of course, the existence of a market. There's a demand in people who think it's good to exploit and buy women and children. The fight against this industry requires a variety of measures in several sectors, both nationally and internationally. Many proposals have been mentioned by the inter-pellant and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In summary, it is about preventing recruitment – by strengthening the position of women and children and living conditions. Direct action is targeted at vulnerable groups from which they are sold, and not least here – where they end up. We know that sending trafficking victims out of the country where they end up is – apart from being inhumane – less effective. The UN figures say that almost half of those sent out of the country to which they are trafficked are sent back again through similar trades later. We have to take this seriously. It is not ‘we and them’ in this debate — it is the women of the world and the children of the world who are being abused. It's our responsibility and the world's responsibility to take care of those we can catch. Trafficking in human beings is today's slave trade and a serious and unacceptable violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e611	First, I would like to congratulate the representative Nybakk, who is putting forward this interpellation and addressing this important question. As the representative of the Trettebergstuen quite aptly said, trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. Trafficking in human beings violates fundamental human rights and must be combated in all its forms. What this means is that in some way almost all countries — whether the countries from which these victims come, or the countries of destination, such as Norway, are affected. Some countries experience both. This has many facets – and is a tragedy that affects both the traditionally rich part of the world and the poor part of the world. While it may have been thought historically that slavery was finally fought by Abraham Lincoln in the American Civil War, it has never stopped. Unfortunately, the absence of slavery has not been achieved. We may now experience an increase in slavery rather than a decrease. We have to deal with this. It's an international problem. I am very pleased that this is an important theme for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and that he addresses it in several sentences where it has traditionally perhaps not been normal. He himself mentioned a NATO meeting and a conversation with Ukraine. I think it promises well. As in natural disasters, in war or in other tragedies, so are women and children who are first and foremost affected, and who are the victims. It doesn't make it less serious. But it also makes it very difficult – when we know that in many countries attitudes to and rights for women and children are not at the level we should have liked. The law often remains to be desired. We fully agree that we need to work on a broad basis and that we need to work through relevant organisations. The UN and the OSCE have been mentioned. Other organisations are also involved. We must also point out that responsibility lies with each country. Countries must implement the necessary legislation. They must take inwards a proper set of attitudes, not least to women. You can't hide behind a flawed legal system. The Mafia cultures that unfortunately characterize many countries that have liberated themselves from communism must be taken into account. There's a lot to deal with about what's going on in this interview: it's about trafficking, about trafficking in human beings. It is about drugs, arms trafficking and extensive criminal networks. With regard to our domestic prostitution and the foreign women who are here, it has certainly been stated – quite rightly – that there are many victims of this type of trafficking in human beings and this type of organised crime. At the same time, I want to try -- it might be dangerous -- to nuance this picture somewhat. It might be dangerous to say that it concerns everyone and puts them all in the same booth, even though the tragedy is the same if it should be one, several hundred or more thousand. Those who are victims, we're going to take care of them, and we're going to have to take care of them. But the picture might be quite complex. The interest that is now devoted to this topic, not only through this interpellation, but also the interest that the representative Nybakk pointed out, with those we meet when we are travelling – the themes we discuss, the organisations we meet, the focus that is on this at the meetings of international organisations, at conferences – we hope to deliver results and reverse this negative trend. I think, for example, that the focus we now have on football World Cup this summer -- this isn't completely unknown, it's happened at other sporting events in the past -- maybe will help turn this around, because there's something people are interested in, it's just sports and football. This could also affect and reach people in a completely different way. We want the Government to be happy with its work, and hope that the Storting can be a constructive partner in the further work to combat this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e637	It is an important topic to consider. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he points out that it is a value in itself that there are such debates as this. It has something to do with what you focus on. We know that prostitution is an old problem, which has existed in society about as long as it has been society. That means that these are issues that we have to come back to once and for all. The need for an international legal order and international rules jumps in the eye. The Minister of Foreign Affairs can feel fully confident that the Right will support the efforts and efforts of the Government to achieve a good development of international rules in this area. I am pleased to be invited to such a consensus and to take a concrete approach to what the previous government did in this area. When it comes to the work we're up in at our home arena, I think it might be important to approach this from multiple sides. The representative Nybakk was concerned that this of course is related to the general climate of prostitution in our country, and that we do not escape a debate on bans. I agree with Mr Nybakk on that. But once we've discussed this at previous intersections, the Right has expressed a scepticism against prohibition. It's a scepticism I probably feel that with the party in my back I can repeat. We are afraid that a ban will lead to this going on anyway, but then in illegal forms – that we get an underground culture around this type of crime that could actually make it worse, and that will also attract other criminal activities and become an arena for a black economy that might contain both smugglers, money transactions and games. We know the entire register of dubious businesses from those countries that have such environments. I think it's important to work with prostitutes more directly. I would like to refer to the work done by the Pro Center in Oslo. Pro Centret is a municipal measure dealing with prostitution issues in Oslo. They say there's quite a difference between the foreign prostitutes who are in our country. It is mainly the Eastern Europeans who are under the ‘pike’ of a ravine. To me, it was surprising to hear that the African environments are not similarly subject to the ugly form of discipline for which the pimps are often known. We also know that the prostitution that takes place in Finnmark – which is about the large social differences that are on either side of the Norwegian-Russian border – is probably ‘shutted together’ in a different way. In our ongoing work, I think it is very important that we follow up on the direct work against the prostitution environments that these are examples of, because we know that it takes time to arrive at international rules. In a small country like ours, all the criminal environments and prostitution environments are relatively transparent, at least compared to the environments of the big nations and in the really big cities. It gives us an opportunity to work individually against the individual groups. We have street prostitutes from African countries. It's relatively new, at least what you can see. Information from the Pro Center tells us that there are people working directly against the countries this is about. You look in the environments they come from, and you work to get them back. This is a major and important social work, primarily for those directly involved, but also in relation to the development of these environments in our country, for example. in Oslo, where this can grow further. So the government has our support in its further work, and I am happy that the matter is being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e652	I want to thank Marit Nybakk for bringing up a very important discussion. At the same time, I would like to commend both her posts and those of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. They were thorough and good. Trafficking, as many have said, is one of the greatest violations of women's and children's human rights. It's a multidimensional theme. It includes international organised crime, prostitution and migration. The international organisation for migration reports that at least 500000 women are sold on the prostitution market in Europe each year. According to the United Nations, about 75 pst. of all victims of trafficking in human beings exposed to sexual exploitation. Women are treated as goods on a market where they are sold as maximum bidders. In addition, a significant proportion of children are exploited in relation to labour slavery and international adoption sales and organ donations, on which Marit Nybakk was involved. I never forget the boys I met at a crisis center in Bangladesh. They were rescued from Saudi Arabia, where they were kidnapped to be camel riders. I promise you, it was a strong meeting. Feminisation of poverty, discrimination against women and lack of education and employment make women and children particularly vulnerable to trafficking. And it's no coincidence. Around the world, women are most often responsible for family care. If women had had financial opportunities to support themselves – and I would add that if men had learned that women should not be for sale – we would not have had the extent of human trafficking that we see today. Trafficking children and women is the slavery of our time, as others have said. Trafficking in human beings is increasing during economic crises, as it did in the Philippines following the crackdown in Asia’s economy in 1998. It is also increasing during civil war. Therefore, it must be an important backbone when the Government continues to work with the Action Plan for the implementation of the 1325 Resolution on Women, Peace and Security. In 2004, the UN Commission on Human Rights appointed a Special Rapporteur responsible for follow-up to trafficking and with a special focus on women and girls. It is important that Norway supports this work. Then, as many have said, several have introduced international guidelines and action plans, both the UN, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. Norway has a role to play in relation to actively following up these, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was committed. In the guidelines of the UN Economic and Social Committee, one of the recommendations is that countries provide protection and temporary residence for victims of trafficking. This was also in the Council of State, and it is a work involving several departments. The 45-day reflection period is far too short for girls to feel safe, so secure that the rearmen can be taken. If the girls are thrown out, they end up in human trafficking and exploitation again. Therefore, Norwegian policy in this area is an area where much can be improved. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in particular and the Norwegian authorities in general have a responsibility to monitor the behaviour and attitudes of assistance personnel, civil and military personnel involved in international operations. So I have to say that the last issue of the Aid Act had a rather shocking look. A survey shows that Norwegian men have lower levels of prostitution while abroad, and many of them have horticultural experiences. In other words, Western men take care of themselves. There is reason to believe that the threshold is lower when they come home to Norway, and especially to women from other countries. Therefore, Norwegian authorities must help to tighten up their attitudes towards those leaving in different contexts. Those who have worked in the ROSA project have gained insight into the history of women. The women tell about violence, threats and abuse, both from the customers of the prostitution environment and from the backers. That is why I fully agree that we need to look at how we can limit the market. A discussion about the criminalisation of the purchase of sex must be taken sooner or later. But then it is also that it is forbidden to buy sex from young people under the age of 18, and some of what I have heard from the environment, is that this is not taken seriously by the police. There is also a significant job to do here. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will probably tell the Minister of Justice, but we also have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e681	Norway shall be the world’s best country to live in. But it's not for everyone. In our country, there is trafficking in women and minors who are exploited for prostitution or other sexual purposes. We must not close our eyes to that! That is why the Christian People's Party would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important and difficult issue today. The action plan against trafficking in women and children was presented by the previous government. It contained many important and correct measures to prevent trafficking in human beings by preventing the recruitment of women and children and measures to reduce demand creating a market for trafficking in human beings. Furthermore, the plan proposes to strengthen the provision of assistance and protection to victims. Many good and correct measures have been taken in relation to information and awareness-raising activities and measures to strengthen knowledge of trafficking in human beings and prostitution. But more and more action is needed. That's why it's good that there came a new and reinforced plan from the Government. There is a clear link between the purchase of sexual services and trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation. By limiting demand, one in our opinion limits trafficking in human beings. The Christian People's Party believes that it should not be allowed to buy sexual services. We believe society through the law must say that it is not allowed to buy another human being. In our opinion, criminalising the purchase of sexual services will limit demand. Traffickers find Norway as a lucrative market because there are cheap men here. If there are fewer customers, there will be a smaller market. I am pleased that the interpellant today said that we must dry up the debate on criminalisation. But don't hesitate. We must take the debate with a clear aim of criminalising. Sweden has criminalised the purchase of sexual services, and Finland is adopting the same. The Christian People's Party will encourage the Government to obtain in-depth information on the effects of the ban in Sweden on trafficking in human beings and prostitution. It is also useful to look at developments in countries that have more liberal legislation in this area, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in the Netherlands. The Christian People's Party will encourage the Government to consider a law ban on sexual services quickly. We should work internationally to create a common law that protects women and children and limits trafficking in human beings. It's not just in Oslo that trafficking is a growing problem. We also see an increase in Stavanger and other Norwegian cities. We need to take more and stronger measures than before. Victims of trafficking in human beings must be granted a period of reflection, or a work permit and residence permit for those who need and want to do so. It has to be done without making it a condition that the victims have to reveal the rearmen. Furthermore, there is a need to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings. It is important to increase the competence of trafficking in human beings in order to identify victims and human trafficking situations, in order to increase understanding of the exploitation of persons in a vulnerable situation, of awareness of the rights and needs of victims – a competence intended for police, courts, foreign authorities, health and social services and other public bodies coming into contact with the victims. It is necessary to improve access to information on countries from which the victims of trafficking originate, or via. The issue being debated today is serious and extensive, and work needs to be stepped up in many areas. This concerns prevention work on trafficking in human beings, both within and outside the borders of Norway, on issues related to foreign policy, development policy, assistance and migration. We need to improve the follow-up of the victims after repatriation, when this is wanted by the victims. It is important to integrate the issue of trafficking in human beings into all relevant legislation, including the new Foreign Affairs Act. We need measures that cover the full range of options to meet the victims’ need for a safe stay status inside or outside Norway. As many have already said in the debate, cooperation with other countries is important. This concerns judicial cooperation in criminal matters with police and judicial authorities in order to prevent Norwegian measures from only being ‘exported’ to other countries, and measures to ensure better protection of victims and the protection of the rights of victims, such as: international cooperation to ensure victims stay in safe countries and in safe places. This debate is about human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e712	We in the left will first begin by commending the interpellant to raise such an important issue here in the hall. What we're talking about here is maybe one of the most vicious things in today's society. It has been said from the pulpit here today that this is an old problem. I would say that in Norway the evil in the system is a quite new trend, and the organisation of the system is also new. For us who have been engaged in fighting for women's rights, the discussion of percentages in their own party layers becomes rather small in the context of the women's struggle that it's really about. But taking hold of this and finding the political force, the political grips, is not that easy, because it has to be done on so many levels at the same time. Firstly, one must be a driving force in international cooperation, for this is often the country of origin, the country of transit and the country in which the women end up. Secondly, international cooperation must establish a rule of law in different countries that actually has the same rule of law on which we are based. It shows how important international judicial cooperation is, and how important it is to incorporate international legal rules that allow us to actually address this. The third thing that is also important to build up, and which means that I also miss the Minister of Justice in this debate, is the competence you need in the Norwegian police, in the Norwegian reception apparatus, in the Norwegian support apparatus – the knowledge that needs for those who work very closely with this. This is organized crime in strong networks that one day deals with ladies, one day deals with drugs, another day with guns and a third day with alcohol. These are multi-criminal leagues. This is well organized. This is often evil put in the system. They're creative. They find new ways of working, and it is always important that the Norwegian police are in the forefront of the fight against such structures. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is as offensive in his answer as he is. I very much trust the foreign minister's commitment to this. But it is also important that the Norwegian apparatus and the Norwegian Minister of Justice get on the road, because the only way to move forward here is to combine a pressure from international cooperation and the international justice system. The last thing is to give the Norwegian police competence, so that you can deal with these criminal networks that we are talking about here. Then there has also been a debate on criminalisation. It sounds like there's something we haven't talked about. In the Left, this debate has been going on for a long time. I remember discussing this topic in a number of TV debates in the previous big time period. The left's position is that a ban will only satisfy the citizens' desire to clear the street, so that we don't see anything we don't like. To debate criminalisation, it is important for the Left to take on the rights of women and the wishes of women. What we see is that a ban just brings things underground. It brutalizes things. It makes it harder to keep track of things, and it's even harder to play with the police. We have stories from Norwegian prostitutes who today see the police as a good partner, a good legal force to be able to do so in relation to the profession they are actually engaged in. I don't want the police to be seen as the opposite of these women. The police need to be on team with them, not against them. I believe that we have had this debate for a long time. I don't want the government to want us to leave it anymore. Here we need to have a great deal of pressure on international cooperation, the fight for international judicial cooperation and the struggle for the Norwegian police to be as qualified as possible to tackle this evil, which is put in such an incredibly good position to work systematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e729	Trafficking and trafficking in human beings are, as many have said, the slave trade of our time. Women are made into merchandise. There are heavy national and international criminal networks behind this very serious form of crime. The networks and the black economy linked to these networks are linked to other criminal activities, such as arms trafficking and drug trafficking. The seriousness of the abuses associated with this form of trafficking in human beings is illustrated by the woman being kidnapped, lured, tricked and threatened with prostitution. In order to break down the victims, so that they are not able to break out of the abuse, they are often systematically subjected to serious assaults, rapes, abuses and sometimes killings. In addition, victims’ families are often threatened with or exposed to represals if women try to get out of trafficking. Foreign girls in the streets of Oslo often pay 90,000-100,000 kroner a month. It is a significant economy linked to this type of crime. The report to the United Nations Committee on Civil and Political Rights of 24 March 2006 expresses concern at the increasing presence of trafficking in Norway. The Committee recommends strengthening efforts to prevent and eliminate trafficking in human beings, effective protection of victims and witnesses and, where necessary, humanitarian residence. The OSCE Special Rapporteur on Trafficking has also asked Norway to introduce a temporary residence permit provision which could provide more effective protection for the victims. Trafficking and trafficking in human beings must be attacked both nationally and internationally. It is important for Norway to take the lead as a good example in the fight against trafficking. Trafficking in human beings is increasing, and this issue must be taken into account in the new Foreign Affairs Act. The government is working, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved, with concrete proposals in this regard. There have been headlines in the media recently when people who are exposed to trafficking are asking for prostitution to be criminalised in Norway. In order to bring this serious form of crime to life, one must be willing to take all the inputs and evaluate them. It is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out, that this work is done widely. I think we can learn a lot with other countries. We should develop cooperation with Sweden, which works actively in the EU and the OSCE against trafficking. But this is not just foreign policy. It is also about justice policy, education, assistance and health. It is good that the Government assesses whether the reflection period should be extended from 45 to 90 days and that the Government assesses how we may be able to grant more residence permits in Norway if they are subject to trafficking. I think the answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs shows that the Government has already worked a lot on this field, and I am pleased that this work will continue to be a high priority. However, we cannot help but believe that this will continue to exist as a problem, as long as there is a market. Each individual – and especially men – must therefore be challenged and challenged to take the responsibility of actually removing this terrible form of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e746	The representative of Nybakk shall be praised for addressing the issue of prostitution in Oslo. Unlike most other debaters here today, I will deal with the content of the interpellation, namely foreign prostitution in Oslo. The representative Nybakk makes a number of claims in his interpellation – which are individually certain to be correct – and then generalises from it. I don't know who the interpellant has been in contact with in these questions, but the Oslo police obviously aren't. Everyone agrees that trafficking is something you have to fight. But in the case of foreign prostitution in Oslo, it's not clear that it's due to trafficking. I will actually address what the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, namely that Nigerian prostitution in Oslo is due to trafficking in human beings. There's no cover for that, according to the Oslo Police Department. Therefore, we must not make generalising claims for which there is no basis. In meetings and conversations I have had with the Oslo police and with the management of the Oslo police, they stress that the vast majority of the 400 Nigerian prostitutes in Oslo – these have increased from 200 to 400 in the last five years – come to Norway via countries in southern Europe, that they come into groups of three to four, and that they come relatively voluntarily. It may be hard to say in this debate, but that is the truth about the Nigerian prostitutes. In the case of the Moldovan or those from other countries, like Ukraine, it may well be right as the representative Nybakk says. But in the case of Nigerian – which is the number of people increasing and which constitute the vast majority – there is no evidence or indication that they are coming through human trafficking. I would therefore like to respond to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statements on this point. The Progress Party has received a number of enquiries from people who experience aggressive prostitution in Oslo’s paradegate – at Karl Johan. So this has been a growing problem. It should be a right for the Nordics to be able to travel relatively undisturbed at Karl Johan, in the centre or in the public space. So it's not happening today. The size removed in 2000 the penal law § 378. The paragraph made it criminal to promote sexual services aggressively. As mentioned, the number of Nigerian prostitutes in Oslo has increased from 200 to 400 over the five to six years since the removal of the paragraph. Possibly, the Storting should consider reintroducing Section 378 of the Criminal Code, which worked, at least up to then, relatively effectively – which is also called for by the Oslo Police. Furthermore, Oslo City Council should look at police regulations, as they do today, and at where prostitution can take place. There is nowhere else in Europe or in the world, as far as I know, where it is the paradise in the centre of the city used for prostitution. It can't be that we have a one-sided angle on the situation of women – all the time on the situation of women. There are other people in this city, and by far most people don't use sexual services. A focus we should also have is changes in Norway's legislation in line with what they have in our neighbouring country, because we have the most liberal legislation in this regard, compared to our neighbouring country. That's why this is also the biggest problem here. I think Norwegian politicians should do the job they're assigned to, first and foremost to protect the interests of the Norwegians in Norway. That's our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e767	First, I would also like to thank Mrs Nybakk, who is raising this important debate. I think it is very important that we also raise the debate in Norway, and that we do not just refer to what we have concluded under international conventions. Trafficking in human beings and trafficking is an increasing problem, and what is said here about the fact that it is the slavery of our time is very correct. The background is, of course, poverty and powerlessness. There are women who are lured into a better life, who may see this as the only way to survive. Or they may be sold by permissive parents or less agreeable parents, or possibly kidnappers. There are several reasons why they're coming. Then it is also important to put in the fight against poverty, as the Government has repeatedly pointed out that they should do. It's very important forward. Not least, it's important to get information to these ladies about what they're really waiting for if they're willing to accept what they think is so good. We must have measures both in Norway and outside, and – as we have said here – we must provide help for a new start. We can't just talk, we have to do something really concrete. I am very pleased with the signal that the Minister of Foreign Affairs made about bringing this theme up to new venues. I thought it was very nice, and I think it is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to shed light on the problem. It's also a good thing that a group of magnificences is that we're going to focus on the theme. So to it by imposing a ban, like in Sweden. It turns out there that prostitution continued, but under the ground. The girls themselves say that the situation has actually worsened, that it has been worse for them. We also have to bring this with us. I think we need to do a discussion of what's going to be the most important thing. Is it that we don't see the prostitutes, that they're away from the streetscape? Is that what's going to be up and down and in focus? Because that's what Sweden is happy about. Or is it the most important thing that we get rid of the problem itself? What happens if more countries in the Nordic region introduce such a ban as Sweden has, and Norway is left alone? Will Norway then become a haven, a place where trafficking is allowed, and one that comes to the fore? We also need to include that in the wider debate, I thought. In Finnmark, there is more or less happiness in getting rid of the trafficking. The police who say trouble, unrest, unrest – all the time. I'm not going to conclude, I just want us to bring all the sides to the debate. I think the last thing has perhaps been a little lit up in the debate that has been here today. Therefore I took it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e780	I would like to thank you for a very nice and constructive debate. Then I have to ask, if there are any from the Progress Party in this Chamber right now, who is representative of what the Progress Party thinks about trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Is that the representative of Tybring-Gjedde or the representative of Højlund? The representative, Høglund, was very much in agreement with the vast majority in this debate that international trafficking in human beings and trafficking is a form of modern slavery and the replacement of women. While the representative Tybring-Gjedde on his side was concerned with the poor Norwegians who each evening are clearly attacked by foreign prostitutes in Oslo. I believe that he said something such as that our task was to take care of the interests of the North. So it's completely uninteresting to care for the interests of foreign sex slaves who are transported to Oslo streets and forced into prostitution. It could be that it's nuances, we know that it is. These are nuances, for example: between the sex slaves coming from post-Soviet areas and part of the Africans. But that doesn't change the overall picture. This has been confirmed by the Foreign Affairs Committee for our benefit by talking to our colleagues in both Sweden and Finland. We have spoken with the UN organisation against violence and drugs in Vienna, but also discussed this within the EU and NATO. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that sometimes it can shine like a job uphill. I think that's what the minister said. Of course, we can be comforted by the fact that it is in counter-basins it goes up, but you can always cheat on this matter. ‘Fixed in a system’, said the representative Skei Grande. I totally agree. I have, despite what Tybring-Gjedde says, really put me into some of the individual cases that lie in some law firms in Oslo. I've been through this quite thoroughly, both internationally and nationally. I must stress what is said by the Council of Europe, that trafficking is an unacceptable evil, which violates fundamental human rights. So in the end, whatever international conventions, whatever agreements, whatever we do in NATO, the EU, the OSCE and the UN, we are not going to get rid of this without reducing or eliminating the market. It can be done in several ways. I think it is very good that it is said from some of the male representatives who spoke here, and also from the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it is important that male politicians now go out and underline it – that it is a shame to abuse sex slaves who have been transported here as part of an international trafficking in human beings. So I want to repeat that the debate on criminalisation, not by prostitution, but on the purchase of sex, we have to in any case take.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e797	A good and important debate, and tribute to the representative Nybakk for having launched it. I would like to discuss this with the Minister of Justice, whom it was called for. The government agrees on this and will continue to work on it. As far as criminalisation is concerned, we now have the opportunity to study the experience in Sweden. It is true, as it was said, that there are shared experiences from there. Finland assesses this. The Labour Party, for its part, has a country meeting decision from last year that you do not agree to it, but in this area we need to have an open mind to study all sorts of experiences. Cleaning up in your own house hears carefully. I would also like to say as a reference here that we are following up the Action Plan for Security Council Resolution 1325. It also has a code of conduct, i.e. a code of conduct on how to act in international contexts, which is also important in this area. And then I would also say, as far as the International Law is concerned, it is true that we have the Council of Europe Convention. When it comes into force, monitoring mechanisms shall be established: if followed, how is it followed, how is it implemented? Norway can play a role there. Then I will also join the representative Nybakk's view that we got an interesting illustration of the fact that the Progress Party speaks with two tongues. I realized that the representative Höglund was on the verge of recognising the complex nature of the problem and writing it into a context that also has to do with social and development issues, while the representative Tybring-Gjedde showed a well-known party perspective that focuses on those who are being disturbed by this, we who meet the uncomfortable everyday when we go out on the street from Stortinget in the evening. In that perspective, I'd rather say that maybe it's good that this phenomenon meets us when we get out, to get an illustration of the unsustainable that it's like that. I would strongly warn against the view that many of these Nigerian women are voluntary in Norway, as if there is another form of volunteering centre we are talking about. The research that has been carried out, and the studies that have been carried out that need to deepen these issues, show that there is both direct and indirect coercion here that is difficult to understand from a Norwegian image, with backers and systems in the home country that are serious here. In isolation, I agree that as politicians, we have the primary task of protecting the interests of the North in Norway, but it is to the interests of the North in Norway to bring about such an unworthy phenomenon. Nor does it hold, I believe, to speak from this pulpit that this is the world's oldest profession, as if it were a matter with which humanity is bound to live. We have to put all the force in the work against this. When we can call this, rightly, the slavery of our time, I agree with the representative, Höglund, who said that it is not useful to refer to Abraham Lincoln and say that he solved it with the American Civil War. We have to take this fight here and now, and we're ready to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e814	The interpellant debate is therefore closed. For security reasons, the President will refer to Storting's Rules of Procedure, Chapter 9, Section 50, which includes: read: ‘In the subsequent debate, the interpellant and the member of the Government are entitled to one post each, up to three minutes. Thereafter, other representatives may speak the word once in a row.’; so that this is clarified if someone is mistaken for taking the word again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e839	The theme of the interpellation is the management of the process against the new powerful regions. We are faced with a great and exciting reform, and political courage and action are required! The discussion on two or three levels of administration has been decided. There will be a reform. We have a majority government. The Soria Moria Declaration states that today's counties are to be replaced by geographically larger regions, still by a directly elected regionation. And it's determined that there's going to be fewer regions than the current number of county municipalities. Major regions will allow more tasks to be tackled regionally. The transfer of power from Stortinget and from the Departments and Directorates to the regions is a prerequisite for the reform. The reform is about the responsibility of the regional central government for supervisory and supervisory tasks and guidance, while executive governance and policy judgement shall be at the elected regional level. Administrative reform is primarily a reform of democracy, not a geographical reform. This means that public tasks are to be solved at the lowest level of effective administration and that local and regional elected bodies are to be responsible for tasks requiring local and regional political judgement. All of this is the Christian People's Party in agreement! Furthermore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that objectives, tasks and content must be discussed first, then regional boundaries and names. But that doesn't mean that we can see problems and content isolated from size and limits. If we are to have successful reform, we must have both tasks and content, and size and limits in our heads at the same time. It is a demanding process that requires political governance. I do not want to go into any detail about the tasks and content of this article, but just refer to the tasks proposed in the report Strong regions from the County rapporteur and the College of Governors in terms of overall business development and innovation, agriculture and rural development, fisheries and aquaculture, transport, training and higher education, culture, environmental and natural resource management and health services. The debate on tasks and content has received many constructive input. It is also positive that the Government has organised a number of hearings throughout the country. So to the regionalised state: the regional level is characterised by regionalised state service and development companies and companies responsible for both tasks and the exercise of authority. Local democracy has minimal influence over these, as the various governments are not responsible to either county council or local government. Here you have to look at the tasks that can be transferred to the regional level. I would urge the Council of State to state that the boundaries of the regional breakdown of the country need to be coordinated. The development of the fragmented state with different divisions has taken place without major political debate. According to the United Nations on 25 January, there are 29 different regional divisions. Innovation Norway, Aetat, Statens Vegvesen, NSB, healthcare companies, municipal companies and many others. The regional breakdown of the State Road Administration is in five regions. They have undergone a major reform from 18 to 5 regions. We also have five health regions. It is important to streamline this breakdown. The District Commission has reached the same conclusion. There should be equal borders in the state regions as in the elected regions. This must be determined by the Government! There can be no such thing as volunteering; political persuasion is required here. That's the way it must be! So to the size and number of regions. The Christian People's Party has not concluded in terms of number, size and limits. I would therefore like to invite Stortinget to a high opinion. As I said in the introduction, it is absolutely necessary to make clear the leads for the number and size in parallel with a working on the problems and the content. So what could be an appropriate size? Several have opened up regional breakdowns between seven and nine regions. Let's think about seven regions, i.e. North Norway, Middle Norway, the West, the South, the East, the West and the Inland. Once the Council of State and the Government have decided on the number and size, a map should be drawn up. It might be a good idea to break free from the traditional county boundaries. These boundaries were drawn at a different time, with other transport links and other social structures. Today's zoning is binding up more than what's natural. The map drawn up by the Government should be a proposal for consultation with all the municipalities of the country, so that they can position themselves in relation to the sketch. Then Egersund in Rogaland can decide whether the municipality will be in the southern region or in the western part of the country. Kristiansund can then decide whether the municipality will be in the West or in Central Norway. The belonging and identity of the inhabitants must be given great importance in the assessment of the breakdown. It is my claim that people have stronger ties to their municipality than to the county. Citizens must be on the road when the final borders are to be set. It's probably best to have a local commitment. The regional reform shall concern all the inhabitants of the municipalities. Summary: Decisions must be taken at the lowest appropriate level. There must be a comprehensive transfer of tasks, responsibilities, power and resources from the state to the regions and municipalities. That is the whole purpose of the reform. Many good input has been made to the Government on content and tasks, and there is a good process.The regions are to be governed by directly elected assemblies, so that the exercise of discretion lies with the politicians. In parentheses, it reduces the power of bureaucracy. The administrative reform must include coordination of regional borders and the new regions, so that different departments have co-ordinated regional borders. This means in clear terms that if Norway is to be divided into seven regions, there must be the same number and borders for health regions, for road regions and for Innovation Norway. And, as the most important topic today: the number and size are related to the problems. The Christian People's Party believes it's important to see both parts in context. The government needs to take a decision and provide clear leadership for this process. The principle message of the administrative reform comes to Stortinget in the autumn. It has to clarify which tasks the region should be responsible for, but it also has to tell how many and how many regions it wants, without the Government setting the final limits in this round. On 15 March the Council of State said that, in the case of regional borders, voluntary action should be taken. The government should first draw a geographical sketch defining its size and number. Furthermore, the municipalities should have their opinion, as I said, on their location in the sketch. It is important that this process starts before you have finished your work on tasks and content. The final limits shall be set by the Storting. What does the Council of State think of such a process?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e896	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Tørersdal, for his commitment to a very important matter. The administrative reform/regional reform, one can call it what you want, is about as important things as how to strengthen our democracy, how to manage to decentralise Norway wisely, and how to make greater use of regional disparities in Norway. I understand the impatience of the representative Tørresdal in getting things in place. The Christian People's Party, her party, has been in government for four years without addressing the difficult challenges of developing the regional level in Norway. Now there is a process that I believe most people in this Chamber have made clear, namely that there is to be a forecast for the autumn where we define the tasks to be assigned to the regional level, possibly the tasks to be assigned to the municipal level, i.e. the primary level of the municipality. Once the Storting has taken a decision on which tasks to move, we will decide what the geographical breakdown should be, what the regions should be and how many regions we should have. One of the problems with the interpellation of the representative Tørresdal and definitely with the post that was now held is that it becomes difficult to understand what the representative actually thinks about the process. On the one hand, she says it is right to add up that the problems should be taken first, as the government says. On the other hand, the representative says that she wants to discuss the number and size of regions in parallel with the debate on the tasks to be moved. I don't have to create confusion about this, because in the head of the Government, it's pretty clear how we have to move forward. We have to take the tasks first and get the debate about them, because if we don't, everything will be focused on the question of how many regions and how large regions. But worse than the fact that the focus is on the size and the number, we can't really deal with the debate on tasks. We have now had hearings all over the country. We've talked to people in the municipalities, we've talked to people in the counties, we've talked to representatives of the NGOs, employees' organisations, etc., and if there's one picture that's clear, it's that people think it's necessary to take the tasks first, get the focus on it in order to get a real discussion about the tasks. It's going to be what the government has added up to, because it's wisest. And the only way we can figure out a solution is to do the problems first and then the geography. When I emphasize it so carefully, I can also add that we have a seafaring eye throughout this process because there is a connection between tasks and the size of regions. Obviously we have a side view of it, something else would be completely meaningless. We have, as I said, a parallel to that problem, but if we were to discuss tasks in the same big message and say something about how many and how large regions we would have, then I'm sure we would end up in a process that doesn't produce results. And if that's what we need now, it's a process that gives results, because now we've been investigating for years, making binding thesis on what we're going to do with the state level. The time has come for decisions to be taken, and then a process must be set up to make decisions. When we present the big task message for the autumn, the message will be based on a comprehensive consultation work that we have had. I understand people are impatient. As I said, many people have waited many years for us to get these things in place, including the Christian People's Party. But it is necessary that we have processes that make those that should be heard heard heard heard. And if there's something we really figured out through the consultation process that we had with the nine regional meetings, it was that the municipalities have not been sufficiently involved in the process until now. The debate on the regional level has been largely a discussion which has taken place at the intermediate level, i.e. in the counties. In part, there has been a discussion that we have had at the central level, and it is quite obvious that there has been too little discussion at the municipal level. Now we're getting these processes in place, so you feel you're involved, that you have an influence on the processes. It's the best guarantee we have that we're not just able to come up with good solutions, but that people also accept those solutions. Because if people don't accept the solutions we come with, yeah, then we'll get new rounds back in a very short time, and there's something we don't need in such a demanding area, that's it. So the tempo is high enough, whether we're never so impatient. We get along well with the process we have set up, in the sense that we have the new regional level in place per year. 1 January 2010, just as it says in the Soria Moria Declaration. I can add that in the big news coming to the autumn – there will be a message about tasks, where in the process we have had the necessary sidelight for tasks related to the size of the regions – we will also provide thinking related to both the division and how the process will proceed. It's going to be on a very general level, but we're going to add the leaders that need to be able to get a good process into the later division. So the government, in relation to division, wants to emphasize that we're going to have a process where we're listening. We think there's a lot of smart people around here. When we see what tasks are going to be at regional level, we think that we will see to a great extent what the new regions should look like. Then there's going to be discussions about it, and then there's going to be a disagreement about where these boundaries are going, and then we're pretty clear that if we can't find solutions through the voluntary processes, then no one has to be in doubt that the government intersects, and then we define the limits that we need to have in place. We then define them as a recommendation for the Storting, because at the end of the day, the Storting is responsible for the boundaries under the partitioning law. «Yes», as I said, I am pleased with the commitment in this field. The process will be as defined by the Government. It would be unwise now to make ambiguity related to tasks and geography. I hope to the extent that the representative Tørresdal makes it clear that the Christian People's Party also believes that we should have a discussion of tasks first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e924	First, I must thank the Council of State for the answer. Not unexpectedly, the Council of State asks why a person is addressing this, and I will answer that very quickly. I agree with the order of dealing with problems and content first. I also agree that a final decision will be taken on this before a final decision is taken on the breakdown. The reason why this is taken up is that a person wants a stronger control over the whole process, that it is said at a time what the Government thinks. Now I was very pleased that it was said by the Council of State that they have a ‘side glance’ in this work. What's the point of the Christian People's Party is that we want to know a little bit about what you're thinking, so that we can be involved, and that we can keep it in mind when we're going to decide the problems. Why is this a connection? What's the reason why there's a relationship between tasks and size? What is quite clear is that the larger the regions, the more resources you get in each region, the more tasks the region can take care of. Therefore, it is important that the thoughts and the side view that I am sure the Government has in its work become known to us who are going to take a decision on the problems, before they have taken a final position on the problems. It is not the intention of the Christian People's Party to throw in the order of this process. The process is in progress, and it's in order. But what we're wondering about, and I'm going to ask the Council of State, is the time when the Council of State and the Government will say something about how many regions they've been thinking. Now the state council has said that there won't be anything other than principal leads in the big news, but when does the number come: 7, 9, 5, 19 or 15? When does the proposal from the Government come? Once upon a time, it is the government's task to propose to Stortinget, and it is the task of Stortingen to decide. I agree with the Council of State very much. The time is ripe for reform. There's a good process going on. It is important to involve the municipalities in this, for this concerns the location of municipalities and a strengthened local democracy. I think it's a right reform. If there is to be a successful reform, it is also important that one succeeds completely, both in terms of tasks and content, but also in terms of regionalisation. I hope that we do not get into such a situation that the government must cut through and force in place any limits. With good governance, with a lot of political courage and action, one will be able to rule with a good suggestion from the Government. And with a good process, with recordings and consultation in the municipalities, I think we'll be able to achieve goals without coercion in the final phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e939	The representative Tørresdal very specifically asks when the government will say something about the number of regions. Yes, it's a simple answer to that, and it's that the government should say something about when the Storting has dealt with what tasks are to be at the regional level. We present the big message for the autumn. I understand it this way – and I am glad – that the Stortinget is set to process the message as quickly as possible. And that means we get to the number of regions quickly. The government could have chosen to sit in total isolation and define which tasks we're going to move, and we could sit and draw maps. I'm sure we could have had a lot of interesting internal seminars about it, and we could have just decided: like that. But we don't want to do it that way, because we want people on board. We want to make sure that we get the best possible result, and we need to make sure that we get a result that goes beyond time. That's why we've added up to a process where we listen to people. It could have been more convenient for me to have been sitting up in the block away in the street here and just cut through and said: like that. But it hadn't been as good a result as we now get, and we hadn't made sure we got a reform that's over time. If the representative, with clear political control, believes that the Council of State should have sat up in the high block on the seventh floor of Akersgata and defined dictatorial tasks and drawn map – yes, that is what the representative, Mr Tørresdal, thinks. But when I'm concerned with clear governance, there's a clear governance towards a goal that means we're going to have a reform that helps democratize Norway, decentralize Norway, where we're going to be better off taking advantage of local advantage. This is a demanding process, which requires political leadership, and that is what leadership we are now taking. That's what the Stortinget sees. There is no dictatorial leadership. It would be very unwise to have a good reform that is going on over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e948	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for the initiative, because there is an important discussion going on. Not least thanks for the fact that the representative Tørresdal shows both an interest in influencing the process and involvement in getting something done. Then I must be allowed to say that it is not many times that I feel that the first word that strikes me when I hear a Christian People's Party representative is the word 'liberated', but in this case I really have to say it. For it seems as if the representative Tørresdal in joy over finally having escaped from the government cooperation that was, and the act that was, and which was mainly due to another party, has become very impatient in having done what the previous government was unable to do, understandably enough. But I might think, and the Council of State has replied, that the rationale for the order, for the content to be decided before a person thinks anything about size, is very logical in relation to the representative Tørersdal himself says about the influence of the municipalities. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Tørersdal, that in terms of structure and borders, which could be two issues, the views of municipalities will be very crucial. And volunteering is to be taken into account, which does not mean that the Government is not going to propose and the Storting is finally going to decide. Local influence is important. I know at least with myself that if we in the municipality at home had been asked about how many regions we thought we should have, and not least where we thought the boundaries should go, when I was rapporteur, my first counter question would be: What are they going to do? When I got an answer to that, I would have been able to mean something. We should set up such a structure as the result of the content that the regions will have. That's why that order becomes completely natural, not least because the local authorities' views become very important for the conclusions. Then I very much agree with the representative Tørresdal in what she says about the regional state, that it is important to make sure that we now get the same regional map to relate to, and that it is easier to manoeuvre, not least for the municipalities, for the business community and for individuals who are going to have contact with the regions, to the extent that regions are similar. In addition, I also believe that it is important to clarify another issue, namely whether the regions should have what is called municipal over-municipal function in relation to the municipalities in some areas, or whether they should not have it. I am at least very concerned that if it is decided that the regions should not be able to over-test the municipalities, it must be followed consistently. To the extent that they have the ability to over-test the municipalities, it must be clearly stated, so that there is no difficult in our management system. So I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party shows that commitment to the perhaps most important democracy reform since 1976, some say since 1837, because it's so important that we get as broad a basis as possible when we're going to define what democracy and the governance system in Norway is going to be like in the future. I hope that the left also wants to affect the process in the same way. I find it interesting to see, as I saw in a look-up quite recently, that even the Progress Party, which is initially for two levels – which would be very special, there are not many countries in Europe that have it, and at least no countries with similar geography, but they now believe it – will also have advice when it is decided that there will be three levels, and will actually be involved and influence the content of the new structure. I think that is constructive, because we are responsible for facilitating the functioning of democracy and that it can work for a long time and not change with changing governments. I'm becoming more uncertain on the Right, which, in addition to having been responsible for what should have been done in this process earlier, without doing anything, at least here the central expression that no, they won't agree to the content of that reform. I think it is interesting that the Vice-President of the Commission of the European Communities in Telemark made a glittering contribution to the days of the local authorities and to the importance of regional reform, and at least I record as very constructive that Mr Reinsfelt, rapporteur of Bærum, says that when we have said that we want to have three levels of government and are done with it, they will affect as much as they can. But what worries me is that the Right Raising Group more and more gives the impression of following the principle of the princess will not – I will not, will not, will not! – and will not be involved in and influence the content of a democracy reform. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e975	I'm going to be relatively short in my post because the Progress Party has a very clear position in its principal programme that says that we want there to be two levels of government here in the country, simply the state and the municipality. I am pleased that the Labour Party has shown how important it is to take into account the municipal structure in this country and what municipal politicians should have as a job. As I know the local politicians in Sogn and Fjordane, it is a mutual cry that one must have real power to control his own situation, as it is referred to here, not least of the citizens of the municipalities and the business community to function in the municipalities. It should not be such that a constant, or at least very often, experience that there is an instance above – a little distant from the municipal level – that overtakes and often puts jaws in the wheels for the solutions that local politicians come to expect from local politics. From that point of view, we believe that local politicians should be given much more power and form, so that they could pursue a policy that is clear in relation to what local politicians see as beneficial to their own municipality and their own business. It is then shown that the Progress Party has come so far that one has said that one should participate in the discussion about the contents of the regions that the Multi-Regional Government may decide. It is right that the Progress Party has sent this out to the audience, and that there is a debate in the Progress Party on what should be the attitude of the Progress Party to this question when matters come up later. I don't want to exonerate anything but that I just want to refer to what is the Progress Party's main argument in the Principle Program. It says it very clearly. So far, we're going to stick to it. Then we'll see what comes out of the internal debate in the Progress Party with regard to what will be the further lead from our party when this comes up later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e984	I would like to thank the interpellant for an important and good question. The question that the interpellant is asking is a question that she is not alone about, but that I think very many of the country's local politicians are also asking. That is why I am also surprised at the tone that the Council of State and the government parties are meeting with the inter-pellant, that the issue and the issue are almost being debated. The aim expressed by the Workers' Party is not well promised that they wanted broad support for the reform when the most likely partner is met in this way when a highly justified question relating to the conduct of this process is asked. It's not surprising to know if the government intends to give a sketch of how it sees a regional breakdown. It is true that the Government well knows what tasks it recommends to give to these regions when it submits the notification of the task allocation. In that case, it may not be so unnatural that the Government also has an opinion on how they view a regional breakdown, at least in terms of the number of regions – whether there should be between five and seven regions or whether there should be between 15 and 19 regions – when a person himself knows which tasks are an advantage. I understand that's what the interpellant demanded, namely that one in the message should also have an opinion of the size, so that a parallel to the task allocation could also start a debate around the country on how one sees these limits going. But it was brutally rejected with: the government does what one has determined, as Åslaug Haga said. It was a great collaboration of the Christian People's Party to get something to do in this area! What should also have been asked as a question in this case is why one should have these regions, because the answer that comes then is that there is something the three government parties have decided on and made a Memorandum of Understanding on in the Soria Moria Declaration. But as Professors Jørn Rattsø and Arild Hervik write in their article «Commune-Norway in conversion»: ‘Previously, we had the Task Distribution Committee, which started with the problems. They did not find a basis for sub-regions. There is no serious investigation recommending so-called strong sub-regions.’ The previous government had ordered an investigation into the county to evaluate the current regional level simply before recommending a new regional level. That order was cancelled by the current Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on the grounds that they had already decided. Then the Minister of State also says that she is happy that the Stortinget has said that they will deal with this matter as soon as possible. It's completely unknown to me. This matter will be – at least in relation to the ambitions set out by the Government – a significant change in the management system of Norway and should therefore be the basis for a proper discussion and proper treatment in Stortinget. We are very surprised if the majority parties in this case will stumble through an urgent procedure in parallel with the Storting's treatment of the budget for the autumn, and not spend the time necessary to have a proper discussion on this. So what we see in the outlines is a reform that is forced through without having a serious assessment of the need for it, without being properly democratically anchored by using the time that is needed, and it is a reform that has a content in it that can mean significant centralization. In particular, what the Labour Party raised in the debate called for the widest possible coherence between the regional state and this new regional level. It is the same as saying that, unlike today, a person is likely to have a significant centralisation of the state headquarters in this country, which means that a good number of centres around the districts will lose important government jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1000	It is commendable of the Christian People's Party to address this debate. We need him, even though that's essentially the process we're going to discuss today. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has in a way come home where one belongs in the regional debate, and not to those who might in some cases run a regional debate with the aim of getting rid of a government level, that it becomes tactical. A region debate is running, but this is just to get rid of the third level. In any case, it is commendable that the Christian People's Party is clear that one will have this, and that one will have a debate on it. Now that's also how there's a debate out there. There's a lot of debate going on out there. In Møre and Romesdal, I often use bombs when I say ‘the county municipality’. They say it's wrong, Jacobsen, it's wrong. So I say, what's wrong with that? Remember, it's no longer a county municipality. It's Møre and Romsdal County, it's Møre and Romsdal County, an active project that we're trying out as a region. The county has said that we will, this is a trial plan, this is possible. We're trying to coordinate tasks with state agencies. The countyman has signaled a few times that this is what he's in on. He's not involved in everything, but there's a process going on that whole state. It is not least to be better at providing services and making More and Romesdal counties even clearer among their own inhabitants osb. This is happening today, and it is going to continue. I record that the interpellant gave away Kristiansund, and most likely thus Nordmøre, to Trøndelag. It's good enough to do it this way over the table, but it's not what the people of More and Romsdal are after. At least it won't be a good process when we're actually trying out a new kind of administration in this state. Do not deal with anything until we have finished and we have resolved, do not settle an account without a host! Mores and Romesdal shall have clear meanings and possibilities to determine whether the county will survive. Of course, we're going to have a policy here in the house and also in the government. I perceive that the Council of State has been clear today. We're going to do tasks first, and then we're going to give a clear state signal. In the process out there must be no doubt that people should have the ability to be heard, and also have the ability to run their own practical projects to see what we can close down with. Of course, there is a correlation between the number of tasks that can be transferred to the regions and the size of the population selected, between the primary municipality and the state. In the first place, we will clarify what kind of tasks the elected level should be responsible for. The Government Party has gone a long way in proposing the transfer of significant tasks in its work programmes. That I personally think is one of the best incentives to see how many jobs we can move out to the districts. How many government jobs and how much government knowledge can we move out? It doesn't necessarily have to be here in Oslo. We also need to be aware that this is a lot of policy in terms of nutrition. Once again, I'm going to start with More and Romesdal. We see that the regionalization that happens in business and that happens in public is in the disfavor of More and Romsdal. We have e.g. lost a large slaughterhouse, we have partially lost the Food Authority, and we have lost the Road Directorate. We see strong centralisation in the region. Even the local bank in Molde was bought up. Let me give you an example. This is something people in More and Romesdal think that there is a centralization in the region. We know that if we're going to have a regional government, we might eventually, democratically speaking, have to go to Oslo to protect our fortunes instead of traveling to e.g. Trondheim. We see that there may be self-interests that go beyond the interests we have in More and Romesdal, which may lie in Trondheim, which will weaken our goal. I also thought we should have that in the back of the head. We're talking about allocating power. Where will that power come from? Take e.g. the transport sector. Do we imagine that the Committee on Transport will give away a lot of leverage when it comes to transportation? Is that what we're seeing? Do we imagine the problem we have today, where the county prioritize the road project, and yet other initiatives come in which again dug the ground under the county council? We must also take this with us. But first of all, we're in a process. There's a lot of trials going on out there. And then we're going to be told what the division of problems is. Then we can start thinking about maps.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1021	What is this interpellation debate really about? Is the number of regions we're going to have, is it how people and municipalities are going to be included in the debate on border adjustments, is it that we're going to use volunteering, or is it coercive? When one reads the interpellation, there is no doubt that it is the last representative to add up to: a discussion not about the reform as a whole, but about borders and how we might adjust the borders. I think it's a strange focus from the Christian People's Party when we know what debates we've had before about the levels of government, and when we know what root and what commitment it's created when you've started discussing the boundaries first. When the representative Tørresdal starts to mention also the names of the coming regions, I am quite amazed. I believe that the Christian People's Party wants a successful reform, and does not want a political root, which she is in the process of contributing to today's debate. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Centre Party, successful reform is not about border adjustments. The reform is about giving people who are elected, real opportunities to do a job for the region they are from, and solving tasks in the region that are unique to that region. It is a reform to ensure local and regional democracy. It is also a reform to clean up a large and partly unwieldy state bureaucracy thanks to a lack of governance in recent years. It is a clean-up reform in which political decisions are to be taken by politicians regionally, where purely bureaucratic things, for example, are to be taken. legal certainty shall be ensured by a state bureaucracy. So when the Dryersdal, and also Höie clearly, want to discuss borders today, I believe that it is in order to destroy the focus for us. The government has added up to a two-stage rocket. The tasks shall be put in place first and then the limits. I'm absolutely sure that we're going to be able to have a clean and transparent debate, which also Höie wants, we're totally dependent on being able to divide this debate into two, so that we first get a real and good task debate to see how we're going to organise this society. Administrative reform is so extensive that it is wise to share the debate. It would be a derailment of this debate if we had to follow the Tørersdal today. I am amazed that the Christian People's Party is crying after that. I am also amazed that the Christian People's Party is shouting after coercion and the use of coercion, and that the Government is initially going to have to draw up a solution and then the people are going to discuss it, instead of going the other way, that the discussion should go locally after the tasks have come into place, so that we get a good decision-making basis. Finally, I just want to say that I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the government parties have the same objective of successful administrative reform. Then we'd rather disagree on the procedure, but I hope that the Christian People's Party too will take an active part in the task debate and become a little less focused on the border debate ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1035	There is no doubt that the Left will be involved in the debate on regionalisation and division of tasks. We like to be involved in all the debates, and we've never signaled that we want to be on a scheme without a third level. After the Left's opinion, the focus must be on local democracy. We're for the decisions to be taken at the lowest possible level, as many others have said here in the hall. It will be very exciting to see how many tasks the state level is willing to give up to both the regional level and the municipal level. I think that a little bit of the bend might be there, that one would like to stay as much as possible in Oslo. I think what has come from the Christian People's Party in this debate is ambiguous. They say on the one hand that they want a geographical breakdown, and on the other hand that the tasks of course have to be defined first – or besides, I don't have it quite clear to me. But I find it difficult when the Christian People's Party gives the impression that they have already decided what the geographical division should be like – even if it was said that they had not decided it – and even decided that More and Romsdal should belong to the West, and then Kristiansund gets what they want. For the Left, it is equally important in this debate to consider what form of governance one should take at the regional level. As the representative Bjørn Jacobsen pointed out, and as we already know, More and Romsdal have made an effort with a group of people. What has our main argument against the regional level is that it has not had legitimacy in the people. The people have kind of taken a distance from the county, they haven't quite understood what one governs with, and it's been too distant. And after my experience on the local plane, and also as a spokesman, I often had trouble sorting between what is the county municipality and what is the county council. In the experiment under way, where the county office has been merged with the county council of a county, the municipalities and others – private and business – have a channel into this regional level and a channel out again. It seems very reasonable to me. And it seems very reasonable that it is democracy and the populace who have gained greater power in this scheme. I would like as much as I can encourage the Council of State to take a close look at the one-person effort that we are now getting very good feedback on, both from the municipalities and from others – private people and business – that is to stick to the regional level. It's also been cleaned up a little bit in people's heads, I think, because very often it was the county's decisions that people most shook their heads of, and the county council often got blamed for. The left is contrary to the Christian People's Party's agreement with the State Council of Åslaug Haga, the Government and the Government Party that we need to clarify the tasks first. I would also hope from the left's point of view that the tasks to be distributed will become many and important, so that both local government and regional government can be of greater significance, whether they are called state or any other regional. But the point of this debate and this change must be that we both get a more sensible distribution and get a stronger popular democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1052	I choose to take this interpellation from the representative Bjørg Tørersdal up in the best possible sense, as a genuine commitment to increased popular government. If Bjørg Tørersdal and the Christian People's Party are a bit eager in the geography class, I still hope that this will end up as a school example of good cooperation on an important matter between the red-green government and the Christian People's Party and also the Left. This is one of the most important things we face in the history of Norwegian administration, and the Christian People's Party is one of the greatest fans. After all, we realize that it must have been frustrating to sit for four years with the greatest opponent of a regional population-driven level. This accumulation of energy that has become applicable, we want to make use of – together – to get a really good discussion and a good solution, not least. Then I want to make sure that the task discussion itself is so formidable that no one should go unemployed and wait for the geography discussion. I just think that it makes sense the way we do it. Elements of logic are also not to be ignored in politics. There's not always geographic discussions get the best out of us, and if someday someone feels an undertone of localization in the discussion, neither are we sure we're getting much better at it. I get a little bit of association with the story of the chicken and the egg. I think it is important now that we first try to put the right large egg in the form of a robust task portfolio, and that based on it we see what a sensible size of chicken is. So I think that this way we get the best process. So I want to say to the right that I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding their logic. I'm not going to go into the facts of the matter, but I think the Right adds up a little to this. If you didn't have such a third level, I think it would trigger a coercion of municipalities, which I don't think would increase Right's popularity. Then it could also increase the country's ability to centralize what's happening out there. Because a reduced number of municipalities to 10 pst. of today’s number – it’s very theoretical – there will still be twice as many municipalities as there are counties that are too small to take part of the tasks we want and have ambitions to spend. So I'm wondering, what's the Right Option really? So I would say that this is a reform that is about two d's. It is also about more, but above all about two ds: more democracy and more decentralisation. When we say decentralization, we really think it's also about decentralization of functions in the new regions. And we intend to prove that. There's no reason to question that very ambition. This is a reform that is incredibly important to our people's rule, to our local democracy. That is why we need to have a good process, take things in order, and we want everyone who wants to influence Norwegian policy, welcome to constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1065	First, I have to be allowed to thank for a very temperate and committed debate. I think we're just seeing the beginning of this debate, because here there's going to be much bigger changes than the process and timing of different things in the process. This is a major reform. This is a reform that will be painful, and that will create debate, because it will then be well worked out. I want to establish that the Christian People's Party does not want the Government to dictate boundaries and sizes. Nor will I suspect the Government to want to dictate boundaries and sizes, and take the Government's motives in the best sense in that way. No, we want the government to propose, because that's the government's job. The timing of proposals is what we are discussing today. I think it's unrealistic to deal with the whole debate on issues in the Storting to the autumn without talking about how many regions are going to solve those problems. That's the background for me wanting to discuss this today. Whether there are five or fifteen regions that are going to solve these, it is going to be part of the debate in the Stortinget. I am pleased with many things that have emerged in this debate, if we have not been told that we must speak loudly about how many regions the Government is thinking about. We have received support that one should have the same borders for the state regions as for the elected regions. Representatives of the government parties have said that. I also hope that the Council of State can mention that in its final statement. It is important and crucial for the reform. I am glad that it has been said that this is a democratic reform, and I am a little surprised that a Christian People's Party is putting the motives in a strange light. We have been in favour of such a reform for a long time, for political reasons. We have programmed something very similar to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is why we are engaged in the debate – no other purpose. Today we have started an important debate. It's just about the process. I would recommend that one think about what I have proposed today, namely to share with the Storting what thoughts one has about size, when the Government will now direct an important and good process towards an important reform for the country. I want the Council of State and the Government to be happy with the difficult work ahead of them, to govern volunteering, and things that many throughout Norway are going to say, that's a difficult process. The Christian People's Party will continue to be a good and constructive partner that will allow itself to ask more critical questions in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1076	I would also like to thank you for an interesting debate. Now I think we're all really just burning after talking about content. There'll be a lot of process, and that's where we are now. But I have to say that I'm at the stage where I'm just looking forward to also being able to discuss content with the Stortinget. We've added up to a whole process, which we've said many times now. It also includes having conversations with the opposition at Stortinget. We have meeting places like this, in the main hall, where we can discuss things. We have the Question Time here in Stortinget, where we're going to discuss these things. But I'm also going to be busy having conversations with the opposition parties, i.e. the parties that want it. We have already started conversations with the Christian People's Party, which I am happy to have had, and look forward to becoming more concrete in their discussions. I am pleased with the signals coming from the Left here today, to be an active participant in the process ahead, and will certainly also facilitate having conversations with the Left in different contexts. I'm recording that the Right won't, and we just have to accept that that's the situation. We notice a certain nuance here between the process the Government adds, and the Christian People's Party wants to. The Christian People's Party wants us to go further in defining at least the number of regions to the harvest. I hear it. My answer is that what we want to do for the autumn is to give the lead to the discussion of the division. That being said, the most important lead for the division discussion is in the task portfolio that we are proposing. Then it's illustrative how demanding this with geography is. The representative Tørresdal suggested seven regions here today, and suddenly there are a number of points of view about Møre and Romsdal. It's illustrative why we choose to run a pure process in the sense that we take the problems first and the geography afterwards. That's what will take us to the best result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1095	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1113	Many were surprised, but pleased when the Prime Minister of the KS was so clear in his view of municipal structure. I quote: ‘To me, it is obvious that the municipal structure that was right before is not necessarily right in the future.’ He also gave a very clear warning to the rapporteurs: ‘Freedom will be stronger if local politicians at least show a willingness to unravel mergers’. This is in stark contrast to the previous opinions of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs in this area. But I expect that when the country's prime minister makes this a major issue when he meets the country's rapporteurs at the main meeting place on municipal policy, this is an expression of the government's policy. In 1837, Norway had 392 municipalities — about 40 fewer than today. It was at a time when the majority of people in this country moved using wooden shoes, horses and rowing boats. Now it's 40 years since we last had a major change in the municipal structure. Even since then, society has changed radically. The passenger car had not yet become an all-men's car, and the Internet was not even a distant imagination. Population distribution has also changed radically. Between parts of the country it is relatively stable, but within parts of the country there has been a clear centralisation. Of the 433 municipalities, 1/3 have under 5000 inhabitants. However, as a result of population developments, there are also an increasing number of municipalities with fewer than 1000 inhabitants. The key issue is therefore, given the current municipal classification, whether the municipalities can also have as much responsibility for their well-being in the future as they have today. Is it conceivable that municipalities with a population equivalent to a housing law in the larger cities should be able to take responsibility for complex child protection issues, offering serious psychiatric illnesses and care and rehabilitation of drug users? Should it be that municipalities are so marginalised that when one of the citizens who requires extensive care dies, the local government budget turns from deficits to profits, as is the case today? Many municipalities have no population basis for more than small jobs in many disciplines. These municipalities often lose out in the competition for the skilled labour force. The consequences often become vulnerable professional environments and insecurity for users. For example, half of Norwegian municipalities lack competence in the most serious child protection issues. Moreover, many of the smaller municipalities will not have the capacity and competence to assume a development role for the community and the region of which they are part. For cities and urban areas, it is often a problem that they lack decision-making bodies to carry out joint planning and development tasks in a coherent area. Thus, people often experience unnecessary barriers between residence, work and leisure. A good example of this is that at the beginning of the 1960s, Stavanger planned and set off an area for a university, which only became a reality in 2005, they planned and set off the area of the neighbouring municipality of Hetland. Similar challenges face current regional centres when planning or facilitating progress and development from a 50-year perspective. It is my concern that failing delivery in policy areas that citizens experience as important could contribute to weakening legitimacy and confidence in the municipality as a political institution. It also means that one weakens the confidence that the municipality has the power to fulfil its role as a welfare producer and a social developer. The requirement for the State to assume responsibility for several welfare tasks could increase from more teams, and it is already too strong. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has said that her goal is ‘Smiling municipalities’, and I fully agree with that. But smiling municipalities get one not only by increasing their financial freedom of action. If the municipalities are to smile, they must also be proud and confident that they have the professionalism and authority to take responsibility for the tasks they have undertaken. Strengthening municipalities is done not only through more money, but also through more comprehensive and important tasks. I am afraid that the smile will quickly freeze if the municipalities feel that the government does not trust that Kommune-Norway can also take on new tasks. In my opinion and in my view, larger and more robust municipalities are necessary. This will enable a few municipalities that are professionally and economically capable of carrying out their role in a good way, both as a well-being producer, a democratic arena, a public authority operator and a social developer. Larger and more robust municipalities will also facilitate the continued decentralisation of tasks for municipalities, which will strengthen local democracy. I have registered, inter alia: in the debate we had in the previous case, that the Government argues for regions precisely because it does not want to do anything about the municipal structure. A policy based on a desire for today's municipal structure is a policy that in the long term leads to the impoverishment of the municipality of Norway, where municipalities have a smaller and smaller role in the community, and where a person moves responsibility upwards rather than downwards. Therefore, regional reform can be a reform of centralisation of tasks very quickly, and not least a barrier to Stortinget’s decentralisation of several tasks to robust and strong municipalities. The Prime Minister's warning came to the rapporteurs that if they did not voluntarily start the process, then the coercion was behind as a threat, it was a very clear signal. However, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council can be pleased that the Kommune-Norway has already started an important process in this area. Former Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, Erna Solberg, took the initiative in such a process as the Prime Minister requested. This initiative was already taken in the autumn of 2003. The final report of the project «Communities of the Future – Municipalities responsible for their development» was completed in the autumn of 2005. This report must be a happy reading for the Government. It shows that the Prime Minister’s appeal has already been followed to the greatest extent. Three out of four municipalities are open to structural changes in the municipality of Norway. Over 30 have already started what the Prime Minister called for, and are now discussing concrete aggregation. In 413 of the country's 433 municipalities have a disputed municipality classification. The municipalities conclude that more extensive inter-municipal cooperation or changes in municipal structures are needed to meet future challenges. The coordination group set up to manage the work has summarised its recommendation in three key points: Today's municipal structure could weaken the principle that municipalities should be equivalent if they are to have greater responsibility for welfare policy. An extensive and more extensive inter-municipal cooperation can solve many challenges, but at the same time could help to weaken local democracy and the free movement of local authorities. And last, but not least: The voluntary line, on which there is a broad consensus in Stortinget, requires strong incentives if the change in municipal structure is desirable. I have understood that the Government through the Prime Minister has said that change in municipal structure is desirable. The municipalities have initiated a process. Then the ball is back with the local and regional minister. Would you like to provide good and active incentives to contribute to the process currently underway? Here, an active government is needed for those who have started this process to succeed in the work they have spent a lot of time and energy on. I am therefore keen to hear the response of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to my interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1164	I would like to thank the interpellant for taking the initiative for a discussion about municipalities and municipality size. It's also an important discussion. I want to start by saying that small municipalities have some weaknesses, and they have some strengths. Large municipalities have some strengths, and they have some weaknesses. Our country is diverse. The ratios are different. Therefore, it is natural that we have a system with a varied municipal structure. The government has a view on the merger, that it should be resolved locally and on a voluntary basis. We have to take the volunteer seriously, because all the parties say it should be grounded. But I'm a little surprised at the Right. They say to start volunteering, but you get the feeling that what you're talking about in practice is voluntary. Community mergers are therefore perfectly in order, provided that they are locally initiated, and provided that that is what you want locally. Under the previous government, cooperation between the municipalities and the Municipalities' Central Associations was initiated, and a comprehensive project called «Future Municipal Structure – Municipalities responsible for their development» was carried out. All the municipalities of the country were invited to express their opinion on the municipal division. The municipalities largely terminated the project, and the vast majority of the municipalities raised questions related to the future municipal division up to the presidencies or local government during the project period. A total of about 10 000 municipal politicians took part in the debate. Some municipalities also chose to involve the inhabitants prior to treatment in the local government. Local and regional media also played an important role in making the debate visible to citizens in many places. This comprehensive project shows that 25 pst. of the municipalities see today's municipal structure as satisfactory for meeting future challenges, over half of the municipalities see increased inter-municipal cooperation as necessary for meeting the challenges, and about 20 pst. said they wanted to continue investigating associations. Overall, this is an expression that municipalities see that the challenges are great. They want, and see the need for, to try alternatives to today's municipal structure – but in different variants and shapes. As I said, about 20 pst. of the municipalities wanted to seek further association. However, some of these municipalities are not included in any real association option because they do not have neighbouring municipalities that want associations. So 27 municipalities in the extension of the municipal structure project have received support for investigation and/or information and for public hearing in 2005. In addition to the 27 municipalities, there are two municipalities, Eidsvoll and Hurdal, which consider going further in a process, but it is per. Today, it is unclear where they end up. My point of going into the project that KS carried out is to stress that a lot of work has been done. A lot of money has been spent on investigating. A few municipalities want to move on and think about merging, but there are very few municipalities that want to do so overall. This means that despite the fact that one has been through a great process of thinking about whether one wants to move on to mergers, the majority of municipalities do not react in the way that the Right wants them to react. So in terms of instruments: Government continues policy towards the municipalities that want to join, or consider doing so. The local authorities are well aware of these measures. Against municipalities that consider joining together, we continue the policy that has been in place for some time now, that is to say to support investigations into the consequences of community mergers, and support actions for information and public hearings – the last said seas to ensure that decisions taken are well anchored in the population. So that's what you're doing in relation to the municipalities that are considering joining up. Against municipalities that decide to join together, we also pursue the policy. This means that they will have access to legal instruments under the law on the breakdown grant and, in the case of partial compensation for non-recurring costs in connection with merger processes. In addition, they have exemptions from individual State charges. In other words, we continue – to be clear – the policy that has been underpinned in recent years by municipalities that consider joining up, and for municipalities that decide to join up. The only means by which the former government practised, which we do not carry on, is infrastructure measures. The previous municipal minister wanted to use infrastructure measures as exceptional incentives to bring municipalities together. That is why they traveled around the country and offered, for example, an offer. roads, bridges and broadband, provided that the municipalities joined. It's not going to do this government. We are concerned that we should have roads, bridges and broadband around the country, but they should have it without it being used as a bait to get municipalities to join together. So it's actually the only instrument that's changed in terms of municipal mergers. Finally, let me just sum up by saying that the Government takes volunteering seriously. A number of municipalities have investigated the possibility of mergers. A few have chosen to go on. The municipalities that choose to go further have the same tools at their disposal as they used to have, and I'm convinced that you can find what's right for you locally, based on what's local. And they're very different around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1208	After this article, I am not surprised and happy, contrary to what the Prime Minister said at the Conference of the Rapporteurs of the KS – I am not surprised, but disappointed. The signals coming from the head of the government at the KS rapporteur conference were very clear in describing the challenges of today’s municipal structure, while the local and regional minister, responsible for the area, approaches the problem by saying that there are advantages and disadvantages with small municipalities and, on the other hand, that there are advantages and disadvantages with large municipalities. It's quite obvious, but it doesn't answer the challenge, which is that the municipal structure we have today will in the long term mean the impoverishment of Kommune-Norway by one shifting power and authority to other superior bodies at regional or state level. It's just to look at the history of the last big period, where the majority of the population repeatedly chose to add tasks to the state, because they thought the municipalities were too small. And that development will unfortunately continue if you don't face this problem more offensively. That's not how the Right goes for volunteering under coercion. Our starting point is the same as that of the other parties, that volunteering should be based, and that we take volunteering seriously. After the Prime Minister's clear description of the challenges of today's municipal structure and the obvious threat in his speech that volunteering is stronger if local politicians at least show the willingness to investigate mergers, one remains that the government's policy is to continue something that is quite obvious, namely that one does not punish economic municipalities that merge – it should not be unprofitable to discuss community mergers, something else would be very special, but then a total removal of the positive instruments that one has to engage in a discussion and to see solutions locally. This means that, unlike the policies of the previous government, this government's policy is the hidden threat of coercion from the prime minister; if the municipalities are unable to get anything out of this voluntarily, then one will come back with coercion at a later stage. That's what we get to record, but it's very disappointing, because this will in the long run go beyond the quality of the offer that the municipalities give to their inhabitants. It's clear from the investigations that are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1215	The representative of Höie, as I see him, assume that if we don't do anything dramatic about the municipal structure in Norway, take a few big steps, get these municipalities joined together, then we'll impoverish the municipalities. I can't understand what it is neither with today's policy nor with today's structure that would help to defuse the municipalities. What has really helped to deplete the municipalities in recent years is that they have not been financed so that they have had the opportunity to carry out all the tasks they are assigned to them. Municipalities have a huge portfolio of tasks, and the problem is that municipalities have not had financial muscles to do anything about what they are supposed to do, namely, the role of society developers. Municipalities have a lot of tasks. They have a lot left to go on when it comes to exercising all of the functions that we've imposed on them. I don't see any progress in that we're impoverishing the municipalities. Rather the opposite. In this discussion on poverty, the representative refers Höie to the administrative reform/regional reform. We have said many times in this Chamber that regional reform should not help to carry out tasks in a more centralised direction. Rather, we have said that the whole basis for the reform is decentralisation. No tasks will be taken from the municipalities and given to the regions. Rather, we talk about the possibility that some tasks can be carried out from regional level to municipal level, whether there will not be a massive transfer of tasks. I have to ask the representative Höie specifically whether he will be perceived there to believe that he believes we should start a new project, as the KS has implemented on municipal structure, in order to get an answer that Right likes better than what they got in the previous round. Is the idea of the representative, Höie, that we should go one more round, do the exact same thing one more time? I can only understand that going out again and asking the municipalities whether they want to join the neighbor or not will only lead to new bureaucracy, new rounds that will require additional financial resources. We're getting a little relaxed, I think, because now the municipalities have given their answer. If it doesn't satisfy the right, we still have to deal with it. And this government has one line: volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1226	Bent Höie is to be honored for a debate on this issue – and we are told very clearly in the government parties how clear we are. Bent Höie went into this debate with magnifying glasses to try to find shades between the government parties on this issue. I think the representative Höie needs a microscope if he's going to get close to something interesting, and I want to say that there's some wrong focus in relation to some other challenges that both the Norwegian community and the Right face. Bent Höie stresses that there is a consensus in the Storting that volunteering should be based. He probably has much more insight into what the right-hand side of Norwegian politics thinks about this, than what I have, but at least I can say that the Right has some kind of volunteering line. The right is no longer a threat, and Erna Solberg is no longer a municipal minister. Then it really is worse with the Progress Party. I have read that Per Sandberg from the Progress Party believes that 150 municipalities could be an appropriate number. The best thing to say about that statement – which I think he actually shares with others in the party – is that in this area, at least populism, which otherwise characterises that party, has not been passed through. The municipal structure project has been a very good and important project. Most municipalities have participated. There have been good processes around – good discussions and many good local investigations. It has contributed to a awareness that has been important — and is important. Taking responsibility for your own development has been the subject of the project. But choosing to pass as your own municipality is also a very conscious choice. Where you have made that choice, the municipal structure project has also been valuable. And no matter what conclusion one here draws – as the Council of State has explained – it is a conclusion that deserves respect and that we have to base on, with the view we have of local democracy. Just to bet on local democracy is to be a characteristic of this government. One of the characteristics of this government and this red-green majority is that we should have a good team game – we who are on the national political arena and those who carry out the important local political craft. While we are discussing this, I know that representatives from the municipality of Gran and the municipalities of Lunner – my homelands – are talking about a possible merger. I know that representatives from three municipalities in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, Vågå, Sel and Nord-Fron are on tour in the municipality of Vindafjord – the newly merged municipality – to get an impression. Not long ago, eight municipal governments, nearly 200 local government representatives, gathered in Bodø, in the Salten region, were discussing different models of possible aggregation. In Northern Hordland, representatives from six municipalities meet on the same theme on 9 May. These are just a few examples. So there's some interesting things happening on the structural front, and we're following that with great interest. Here people meet, here people discuss – it happens completely voluntarily, and that's how it should be. What is important is that a capacity to have good dialogue with the population. It is absolutely necessary if one is to get good results that the decision has legitimacy in the population. When the prime minister said what he said at the municipal conference, it was because he wanted to give some extra inspiration to those who are working on this. He stressed that assessing structure is also an important part of municipal development. I agree with Bent Höie that everything doesn't have to be like before. That's why I'm a social democrat. So here you might say that Höie and I have something different approach. I think we should keep going. Of course, we are because where one believes it is important to take structural action to ensure the provision of well-being and to have good social development. Norway is a diverse country, as the Council of State said. That's why we need a lot of good solutions around, and it's the local politicians who know best to rig. We're going to be dealing with them out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1246	As in the previous case, I should be relatively short. I just want to show you what's in our principle program on municipal convergence. In line with the other political parties, we have stated that it should be voluntary. I want to express my opinion on what I know best about, the relationship in Sogn and Fjordane. KS had a hearing among the municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane, and there was no doubt about how the municipalities viewed this with a municipal merger. I believe that until further notice, there will be the result that will come in response from these municipalities. So we know that all along the time, the political landscape will change. Things may change so much that the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane also do mean something else. But until further notice, I think it is difficult to get a municipal consultation if it is to be done on a voluntary basis. Even if it is sometimes said something else about us, the Progress Party is still a democratic party – which sees democracy in the throne – and we choose to take seriously what our local politicians think. I believe that in the future, too, it will be very decisive for how local politicians and local politicians perceive their working situation – what they have power and power over, and what they manage. There may be things happening in time, not least as a result of what could be the result of the regional breakdown and the work tasks – after one has been told about that relationship. It can change the relationship with local politicians around the country, but we don't know that until we know what the result is. Then, too – and we hope so – it gives local politicians an added interest in being able to continue at the level they are at. In my county, we have municipalities with less than 1,000 inhabitants, and we have municipalities that are a little bit larger. Based on the debate that KS received, there was no doubt about what they meant. Then you can wonder how many municipalities there are that have to merge into my state if you're going to have a level that is of a certain size when it's a resident. What I think will be decisive about what you mean, is whether you have a job that makes local politicians think it's interesting to sit in a small local government in a small municipality. I just want to show you what's our program, and until that's changed, what we stand for. However, there is no secret, as was also pointed out here, that there are members within the Progress Party who have a strong view of what should be done in connection with this. One might find that one will change its position over time – but so far, we're on what we've put up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1259	I see from the interpellation that it is based on an assumption that ‘greater’ would be more robust and better. It's by no means safe. There's very little evidence of that. What we know, and what the Council of State was also involved in, is that it's economic food from national authorities that's been the big problem for the municipalities. That's where the exterminator has a doctor. In addition, when we know that the right-hand side works in a way that is frenetic towards the ability of the municipalities themselves to invest in the tax owner – of course, I am thinking about the tax on ownership – and is working hecticly against the fact that the municipalities should have income in order to be able to provide the services they are going to provide, it is clear that there will be an impoverishment of the municipalities, and, of course, also an impoverishment of local democracy. Why should municipalities necessarily merge without them wanting to merge? I have had a debate and a round of it with the Right-President in Midsund municipality outside Molde – a good Right-man. He is also not sure that local policy if, for example, Midsund is merged with several other municipalities or becomes part of a large municipality, will have the same upswing and the same commitment as today. In Midsund City Council, I meet people from different strata, from different parties, etc., and it's a good commitment to local affairs. I'm not so sure that the same engagement would be there if one were to take the ferry to Molde. But I have no answer to that – there is no clear answer. It may well be kept up. But it would be foolish to take a chance if people in Midsund didn't themselves want a big municipality. I have to admit that SV has a great sense of sometimes having a little centrality in both the one and the other area, but when it applies to what is the basis, the structure, then at least one has to be right on the locals. Other examples are Aure and Tustna. And when it came to the Imarsund project, knock it through, then there was no problem. Some say that if you had been smart, a promised smoldering team had a large sports hall on the other end of the ferry rental – then they had to get on with it right away. But is there democracy by promising castles and carrots around? Is that what we're going to decide how we're going to evaluate what local democracy we're going to have? Of course not. They will have both road, sports hall, etc. through completely different democratic and folklore processes than by being promised that if they get big enough in that case, they will get what they want. Voluntaryness is clearly fundamental, if there is no doubt. I want to say it so strongly that when it comes to child protection and other services in some municipalities, including the interpellant, we see that it can be difficult not only to implement it in a resource way; it can be difficult for those who are going to work with child protection in a small municipality as well. Then we know that intermunicipal cooperation and other cooperation arrangements are fully possible. We see many good examples of this that we have to do more, even in relation to the government tasks – so that one gets resource banks to the county and people can talk to colleagues in other municipalities, or one can get an environment where one can discuss matters. This is completely possible. One may not have to merge municipalities because one cannot fully configure these important service areas. Finally, I just want to say that volunteering is fundamental, and I also thought that Right should bring it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1270	In a democratic society, decisions have to be taken as close as possible to them. Good dialogue with citizens and best local knowledge is essential for a good decision-making basis. A functioning local democracy is therefore important. In order to ensure democracy, we depend on broad participation both in elections and through activation, involvement and representation in political bodies. The Christian People's Party will therefore work to ensure that the state governs through a framework, so that the freedom of action of the local authorities increases and local democracy is strengthened. Municipalities are the main provider of basic welfare services in the community. Over a number of years, municipalities have been given new tasks without having been adequately funded. Many municipalities are struggling financially and have had to make unwanted cuts in important services. Despite efficiency and rationalisation, there is a gap between desires and expectations and what can be achieved. Several municipalities are likely to benefit from joining forces, but the Christian People's Party does not want to force mergers of municipalities. There must be natural processes desired by the inhabitants. There is no rule for what is a favorable size of a municipality. Population density, distance and size have a lot to say. In the 1980s, I worked in the municipality of Stavanger. The population was approaching 100,000, and one began organizing the municipality in self-propelled units for the sake of proximity and overview. The municipality was too big. The Christian People's Party wants intercommunal cooperation to be strengthened to ensure better services, more robust and interesting professional environments and more efficient resource use. Good local processes and interaction will provide good and functioning municipalities. For communes with large geographical extent and scattered settlement or peripheral location it may be difficult to obtain by merging with others. In order to provide the population with an equivalent service provision, it is also necessary to ensure a financial basis for municipalities with large small business disadvantages. It is important to ensure living and thriving settlements in small municipalities, such as Utsira and Witsøy. The Christian People's Party will work for better consistency between the tasks of the municipalities and the finances of the municipalities. This must be done by strengthening the economy of municipalities and increasing local freedom of action. It's not necessarily that the solution that's best in one municipality is the same in another. The welfare offer must be equivalent throughout the country, but not necessarily the same. Just because geography, housing and size are so different, municipalities have to have a great deal of freedom of action in order to find good solutions for their citizens – regardless of the size of the municipality. The principle of subsidiarity is about power distribution and decision-making. It is about limiting the use of public power. The principle of subsidiarity implies that decisions should be taken at the lowest possible and most appropriate level. It implies that decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those in question and that as much as possible of those to which the decision applies must be included in the process. The Christian People's Party agrees that the municipal structure that was right before is not necessarily right in the future. Furthermore, we believe that the municipal structure issue must have the inhabitants in the centre. Community integration must never be an end in itself, but can be sensible and successful if the population so chooses, and if it will provide good welfare services. It has to focus on that. An example of this is the merger of the municipalities Ølen and Vindafjord. It turns out that this aggregation is successful so far. From a national perspective, fewer municipalities may be appropriate. Positive voluntary processes have been initiated to obtain aggregations. In the Grand Duchy there is a broad consensus that volunteering should be based. That's good. Equally important is that we pursue a policy in which small well-functioning communities with a special geographical location are allowed to exist as their own municipalities. Such a policy is important precisely for Utsira and Witsøy – and many other small municipalities in our country – to be allowed to flourish.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1302	It is nice to come after the Christian People's Party in this debate. I very much agree with the representative Tørresdal's description of what sub-financing the municipalities have been exposed to in recent years. We agree with the analysis of the policies of the previous government with regard to the lack of funding in the municipalities. When we're going to discuss municipal structure, I think it's a little bit interesting to look back on what happened, and on which rough road the Bondevik government chose against the municipalities – both in terms of general mistrust in terms of municipal structure and not least in terms of the poor appropriations, which led to painful cuts around the country. Former municipal minister Erna Solberg used the image of both whip and carrot to reach the goal of fewer municipalities. But we have seen — and got it described in the course of the debate — that it has not led to any significant results, other than frustration and huge group work all around Norway, with a lot of painful discussions. I am at least pleased that this government is very clear that when adjustments are to be made to the municipal structure, it is the local process that is to be taken into account. It must be well anchored locally – it must come locally. The centre party is satisfied with this government. We are pleased with both Stoltenberg and Haga’s opinions in this matter at the KS conference. What is also important to be told in terms of municipal structure and mergers is that for the Central Party, the municipality is the foundation of our democracy. It's in the municipalities that people live in. Local authorities are responsible for responding to local needs, which are responsible for providing the local welfare of schools and care for the elderly. It is the municipalities that are to create a good and secure framework for the daily needs of the inhabitants. If we are to make a change in the near-democracy, it is important that we respect democracy when the change is to happen, that it is the local one that is starting from, and that it is the local conditions that are underpinned. In my own home country, Hedmark, we have e.g. the municipality of Engerdal, which has approx. 1,700 inhabitants, but that's much larger than the Westfold counties in the area. I could refer to the municipality according to a municipality that is much larger than other counties in the area, but which nevertheless only has a population of 1500–1,600–1,700. It is not certain that it is wise to merge all small municipalities – because of all these geographical differences. Local elected representatives – those responsible locally – may have to initiate processes in order to bring about a change, when they see that it can create better local democracy and ensure a good local service provision. The centre party has respect for people where they live. The centre party has respect for local democracy. Therefore, we are pleased that this government is so clear that it is in respect of local democracy that any changes in the local structure should take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1322	I think this is a point where there's quite a real disagreement between us and the Right, both about the content and the structure of the municipalities. But I think we agree that large, new tasks may require much bigger municipalities than what we have today. The disagreement is whether a person wants to go very far in such a direction or not. In this context, it should be understood that Norway, in the European context, is about the average for the number of inhabitants in the municipalities. So we do that even though we are a very special country in the European context, both in terms of geography and topography. That it must have a certain importance for the municipal structure, should be quite obvious, because the distance to the municipal centre, an effectively operated nursing home or other services obviously also has to do with the quality of the offer, and it gets worse if the distances get very large. Some studies have, for example: the most efficient we can have is municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants – it also provides large units. I think it's too theoretical to put into practice with the geography that we have in Norway. Now I do not claim that the representative did so in any way, but some are approaching the discussion in that way. The fact that we are at some kind of European average level, with above average difficult geography and topography, I think that one should also have an understanding that proximity is an important factor in the quality assessment of the municipalities. But this will be very different. I see it as perhaps the representative Höie is right in the considerations he puts forward regarding the problems in Stavanger in relation to spatial planning, for example. narrow limits. I can say that for myself it was close, even though we were not merged at that time, in connection with the municipal merger in Larvik in 1988, when five municipalities were merged into one, against the referendum result. It was because of the enclosed city, old Larvik, and its need to look at spatial planning and that kind of thing together with neighboring municipalities. I would say that the biggest problem with that merger was just that it was a coercion. A successful process could give a better result than what we've got. But it was absolutely necessary to solve the problems that old Larvik had, and that the region so far indirectly had as a result of it. Then we've seen a voluntary community merger in Re in Westfold, where Våle and Ramnes have joined forces. They are part of the study referred to by the representative Höie, where it appears that those who have recently experienced this type of municipal merger are largely satisfied with the development of the service provision and with the result. So the starting point is that volunteering is very central to the success of the processes. That's what the government has said. At the same time, it has said that one should stimulate good processes that are in progress and, hopefully, are to be started, both in order to improve cooperation between municipalities and, where appropriate, for municipalities to merge. What the Prime Minister stressed at the Conference of Rapporteurs of the KS was actually voluntary, and he pointed to the responsibilities of local democracy itself for entering into these processes. I think that's the same thing as what the council says here. I was about to say that one should almost be creative to hear a big difference between what the Prime Minister says and what the Council of State says. I would almost suggest that you have a certain desire to hear a difference, and give the impression that there are divided views, to come to such a conclusion, for what is being said is the same. Or to put it another way – and then I say it on the basis of what the Prime Minister said, to please the representative, Höie, because it was the Prime Minister he was initially most satisfied with: to the extent that opinions are shared in the Government, it is the views of the Prime Minister that are shared. That must be good for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1340	It is absolutely right that I am satisfied with the Prime Minister's statements. The problem is that the Prime Minister’s opinions are not followed up with policies of the responsible State Council. That is what we have witnessed today, because the problem description that the Prime Minister gave, which I fully agree with, would naturally have been followed up with an active policy by the Government, while the only policy that the responsible Council of State has presented today means that the municipalities that do this entirely voluntarily should not lose out on the economy, but they should not earn anything on it or get a profit through, for example. incentives. This means that there is clearly a difference between the views of the Central Party on whether or not the municipal structure is a problem and the Workers' Party's view that the local authority structure is indeed a challenge. What was special was that Åslaug Haga asked me a specific question, namely whether I thought she should start a similar project that Erna Solberg started. No, that wouldn't make any sense. What I'm asking the Mayor to do is complete the project that was started. Because when that project was launched, the government announced that they would give feedback to the Storting on the experience of that project and on proposals for action to follow up the process that was initiated in 2007. The concrete examples to which the representative Hagebakken referred are all the results of this process. That work led to some concrete recommendations, which I referred to in my article. I therefore expect the municipal minister in the municipal proposal for 2007 to give feedback on the concrete recommendations made by the project, and whether the government will follow it up with an active policy as a result of the Prime Minister's statements to the rapporteurs, or whether the active policy of the government is only the threat of coercion, which was poorly concealed in the intervention of the Prime Minister. So Hagebaken was concerned with a positive and good dialogue, and I fully agree with that. It is therefore quite surprising that the Labour Party rapporteur, Mr Pedersen, in Tysvær, as one of the municipalities, is calling for dialogue with the Government. The municipal politicians who were gathered in the Salt, as Hagebakken also pointed out, are calling for dialogue with the Government. The municipalities of Sunnmøre are calling for dialogue with the Government. And the representative Vedum calls the discussion that has been, a painful discussion, while the Hagebaken calls it a good dialogue. The problem is that the government parties in this debate have not at all responded to the challenges that the Prime Minister gave to the country's rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1349	I think that the question of municipal mergers in essence is quite simple when one first decides that it should be based on it is voluntary. If the municipalities want to merge, they do, and if they don't want to merge, they don't merge. In recent years, the vast majority of the municipalities in Norway have thought through whether they want to join their neighbours or with several neighbours. A few choose to follow up. We want them to be happy, and they know very well what measures are there. In recent years, we have had good examples of community mergers. Re municipality is a good example that was mentioned here, Windfjord is another example. There are central parties on all sides of the table in these processes, and it helps to underline the central party's approach to this. But it's also so that it's this volunteering that's the government's thinking. There's a full consensus about it, and then it gets so that those who want to join together do it, and those who don't want it, don't do it. It would not have been entirely unnatural if the representative Höie had been clear on what new incentives there are Right wants to contribute to municipal mergers. There has not been a proposal on the table during this debate, and that is something we should take note of. There's been a lot of time and energy around the municipalities in the late years to discuss community mergers. Now we've been through that process, and we know which municipalities go further, and which do not go further. There will continue to be discussions around Norway about whether to join forces or not, but I think it is now important that we use the energy in the municipal sector less to discuss structures and more to think about how to ensure good services for people, and how we can contribute to the development of municipalities, among other things. as development actors, which is an area where much is left hanging. We need structural debates, but don't let it get overshadowed. We've spent a lot of energy on it in the later years. Now we focus on the offer we're going to give to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1360	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1378	The UN and large parts of the international community have recognised that if one is to overcome poverty in the world and create conditions for more people to have a better and better life, women's rights and living conditions need to be strengthened and improved. If a poor man is to be overcome with poverty, he must know who the poor are. And that's like 80 pst. of the world's poor are women and their children. Between 80 and 90 pst. of the poorest families have female single-parent families. Millions of children are therefore dependent on women’s income to improve living conditions. Therefore, the entire international community must be mobilised for women’s rights and central women’s requirements as enshrined in the Women’s Convention and in the Beijing Platform. It also means that one must look at the world's and developing countries' conditions of power from a woman's point of view. The Egyptian writer and long-standing female activist Nawal el Sadawi have said this: we must change the world from below with globalisation. The UN, with all the women’s conferences that have been organised, has been an arena where many women’s organisations have been able to gather and set the requirements reflected, inter alia, in the Beijing platform. The UN has thus given women greater visibility and more power. UNIFEM, the UN Development Fund for Women, has provided much and new knowledge as a basis for mobilization. The 2005 report ‘Women, work and poverty’ asks questions about economic growth alone, giving the world’s poor a better and more worthwhile life. Those who have the most power already get most back in today's neoliberal regime. Especially in developing countries, policies aimed unilaterally at inflation and price stability, pushed forward by the IMF and the World Bank, have led to greater disparities between poor and rich and poorer conditions for poor, especially for women. Reduction of the public sector as a result of this is particularly the case for women who have had to pay for it. Women's social rights are weakened or lost. It is therefore right, even from a woman's point of view, that the Government is now working to ensure that Norwegian aid does not go to programmes requiring liberalisation and privatisation. Women’s Environment and Development Organization points out in a report that there are three trends that have had a negative impact on women in recent years: The growing militarisation after 11 September 2001 and an increase in regional, ethnic and local violence have increased the number of refugees and displaced persons – among them the majority of women – and undermined women's access to protection and basic services.The dominance of neoliberal economic frameworks has reinforced the inequality between nations and countries, especially for women. These are important background steps in shaping our development policy with the women's glasses on. The Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was a victory for the global women's movement. The most brutal conflicts occur most often in countries where human rights are not respected, where women are little represented in society, and where violence against women is a major structural problem. In countries with brutal civil war, violence gets its most grotesque expression, as for example. rape and coercion. Nevertheless, the women, above all, are keeping up the little that remains of social functions in areas characterized by long-term war. Women do most of the productive work and take responsibility for their schooling and health. Resolution 1325 takes as its basis both the right argument, women's rights are to be safeguarded in conflict situations, and the utility argument: women's absolutely necessary place as contributors in all areas in order to promote peace and security, manage conflicts and build and maintain peace. Women are actors, not just victims. I am therefore pleased that Norway is one of the very first countries to draw up a separate action plan. Now we have to go on, we have to help the international community take on greater responsibility, and here at home we have to work on the plan and connect the NGOs that have great competence, as important co-players. The right of girls and women to education is important in order to increase poverty. In a new report, UNIFEM reminds us that it is not enough to focus on all girls getting to school. All girls must be given the opportunity to complete basic education. Now it's not seaworthy that all girls get started at school. Of the 150 million six to eleven-year-olds who don't have a place in school, 90 million are girls, according to the World Bank. But, according to UNIFEM, for girls to be able to finish school, it is important to look at the whole life situation. Many girls are kept at home because they are needed for important work, such as: to collect water. This is also how the right to water is an important question for women. Because of the pressure to reduce public expenditure, schooling is far from free in many countries. So, in patriarchal societies and in poor families, boys are given priority. The fear that the girls are being subjected to sexualized violence, either at school or on the way to and from, is one of the reasons why the girls are being kept at home. That is why the fight against violence against women is important in this context. In order for education to give women the right to sea, the right to secondary education and vocational training for girls and women must also be lifted. For this reason, it is important that Norway, including with the framework provided by new forms of assistance, ensures agreements that give women and girls the right to equal education and training. ‘Poverty means work for more than 18 hours per year. Today, but still I don’t serve enough to feed my family.’ This is what a poor woman says in the UNIFEM report of 2005. This report shows how women in the global distribution of jobs are becoming more and more employed in the informal sector, with low wages, without contracts or on slave contracts, without social rights and thus without the possibility to cover unforeseen expenses. In fact, more women have been given jobs in the export industry, but without any chance of getting out of poverty traps. The lowest in the ranks is those who work for large groups in their own homes. Women work according to the infamous ‘just in time’ principle – the system in which the contracting entity does not rely on making production facilities or storage facilities available, while women have to take the jobs they receive without complaint and deliver to – yes – ‘just in time’. At no level is the distance greater than between the woman who nurses football at home in Pakistan, and the director of the company who makes a lot of money in this work, confirms the UNIFEM report. The possibility of decent work, as defined by the ILO, lies in giving women, among other things. loans and micro-credit facilities. But that's not enough. We also need to support the women's and trade unions who work for the right to collective bargaining, for cooperative organisations and to give women a voice in the work around the PRSP processes and the Millennium Goal Work. There's a lot of possibilities here, and there's a lot of examples of it being useful. But it needs to be lifted more, both by giving UNIFEM support, because they have many projects, and by looking at what we can do bilaterally, using the budgetary support and harmonisation we have now. It is not certain that women’s demands are natural requirements for those with power and define what budget support should be used for. The United States and, in this context, other fundamentalist regimes bring pressure on women's reproductive rights and health, as reflected in the Cairo document. Reproductive health is one of the most common causes of death and disease among women and young girls in developing countries. Mother mortality has not fallen in the last 20 years, despite several decisions. Unsafe abortions are a serious obstacle to the Millennium Goal to reduce maternal mortality by three quarters by 2015. The relationship between reproductive rights and increased development is well documented. It's about controlling your life. Therefore, in Norway, we need to take on a leading role in decriminalising abortion, the right to safe abortions and to better assembly positions. In addition, it is important to contribute to increased focus on women and AIDS and women’s access to both information, condoms and medicine for those infected. In the international fund of which the Government and the Minister for Development now contribute to the construction of, in order to counteract the negative consequences of US policy, it is incredibly important to focus on HIV, AIDS and reproductive rights and the right to safe abortion. I look forward to the debate and how the Council of State views the evaluation of the aid work that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1422	As Mr Ågot Valle rightly points out, the life situation of women is one of the most important issues in development policy. Among all the reasons she puts forward, women often suffer especially during war and conflict. They are innocent victims of a conflict started by men and driven by men. Women are often among the poorest in many countries, but also those who bring an entire family out of poverty. Women are the lowest-educated, and their daughters are those who get the least education and thus the worst prospects. In almost all dimensions related to development and peace, the situation of women is therefore a very important issue. This is also a main reason why our government has defined women’s policies as one of the four main areas of development policy. We also do it because we think it's an area where Norway has a lot to contribute. We are a country that is internationally perceived as a place where women's rights have come further than in many other countries. Fortunately, we have far more women in big business and government than other countries, although it was very little fluent that Chile hit us on the finish line and became the first country in the world with 50 pst. women in government. This is important, and we have a lot to contribute, so it has to be a main issue for us in the future. One of the classic debates, as I've been following women's policies in Norway for 30 years, is whether the most important thing is to launch specific women's actions, or whether the most important thing is that women's perspective gets through in all the major policy areas. The answer to that, as I see it, is: Yes, thank you, both. We can't just have one or just the other. It may be that there is a need for a separate UN organisation that consistently and daily places women's issues on the agenda. There's a lot of talk that you should have, but it can't be the opposite of women's issues also having to be part of all the UN organisations involved in employee rights or children's rights, or development policy or peace or whatever it might be. You have to have both. I was in Liberia quite recently, and this actually illustrates the whole thing: I asked Liberia's new female president, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, what we can do from the Norwegian side, and what was the first thing she would ask us to help her. Then she said, "Police." That may not be the first thing to think about from a classic Norwegian perspective of women's sex, but of course it illustrates a core point, namely, that without a regular police force, women in Liberia have no protection. Any man can commit the assaults and acts of violence he will against any woman, and he will never be tried. There is no protection whatsoever for the most basic thing in life. That's why the police are the first thing they need, and that's why Norway has gone in and said by us to support our own reception units for women and children at police stations all over Liberia as an immediate response, and then come back to what more we can do for Africa's first female elected president. Let me also say something material about what's a major concern for Ågot Valle, that's molestation and sexual rights for women. It's perhaps the most controversial issue internationally in this area, and it's an area where this government wants to be completely in front. Where many will speak carefully and in due order, we shall be clear. It is also an area where there is an unfortunate polarization and where we can not only scream, but also have to get others with us. Perhaps it was a small, positive step we saw yesterday when it became known that the Vatican and the leading Catholic circles at least began to soften up their positions very little. Nothing would be more welcome in any case than if it were to happen. Norway will lead the work on women’s rights, on women’s power and control over their own sexuality and on all issues related to motherhood. We are working with the Nordic countries and with the Netherlands and the United Kingdom to bring sexual health and mutilation into the mainstream of achieving the Millennium Goals. Mother mortality is, in fact, the criterion where there is the greatest difference between the richest and the poorest countries in the world. We are in the front line of support for the UN Population Fund and an important one is there. We are in the front line of support for the International Planned Parenthood Federation, which is in a way a kind of spearhead in the fight for many of the most important rights in areas where the interpellant was in. We support the right to safe abortion. It's absolutely central. Tens of thousands of women in Africa still die after comparing with the old knitting stick stories from Norway. They die under the most unworthy conditions because of abortions they have tried to take, often in pure desperation, and in no healthful way at all. It's unworthy, and it's something that everyone should be able to distance themselves from, no matter what you think about self-determined abortion. We also want to decriminalise abortion and believe that abortion must be a right in other countries, and will address the issue of decriminalising abortion in all international forums. We see the relationship between sexual health and HIV and AIDS. Power over the sexuality of women is one of the most important issues in combating the AIDS epidemic internationally. At the moment when women have control of their own bodies and men take responsibility for their own behavior, we will have gone a long way forward in that area. We also need to ensure public access to condoms. Norway will, of course, participate in the major UN session on AIDS and HIV in New York during the month of May-June. I want to take part there and try to front the points of view that apply in this debate, in such a UN forum. Another area where the interpellant was concerned is the question of economic rights for women. I'm going to risk it a little faster, but it's partly about rights in the formal sector. In the formal sector, almost everywhere women's wages are much lower than men's wages in the same sector, and often women are the most vulnerable in the formal sector. For example, when the Asia crisis hit in 1997, women had to go first. They kept the job longer, of course because they kept the job as far as possible for the one who had the highest wage, and employers made it easier to kick women out than men. So women's rights in the formal sector are important. However, women's rights in the informal sector are equally important, because the informal sector in many countries is very much women, and many more women have jobs in the informal sector than in the formal sector. Here you simply have to move forward on both legs at the same time, in cooperation with the ILO – the UN Labour Organisation, whose leader comes to Norway in the near future, invited by the Government – and, of course, in close cooperation with the Norwegian trade union movement and also with the Food and Drug Administration, with which we will certainly have quite similar views in these areas. However, women's rights both in the formal and informal sectors must be guaranteed in the further work in the economic field. Interpellant Ågot Valle asks about the evaluation carried out by women’s strategies in recent years. The answer is that it is not a particularly uplifting evaluation. What is basically said in the evaluation is that there is a lack of results, due to unclear responsibilities and, I think, to a great extent unclear about what I started with, namely whether to have own women's projects, own women's programmes, own women's organisations – and pursue it along that track, or as it is so well called in the professional language, that you should "mainstream" women's issues, that is. whether women are to enter the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment or all the other places where decisions are taken. And the answer must be: both parts, please! On the part of the Government, we will support both specific women's projects and specific women's actions under the auspices of the World Bank and the UN and the work of all political forums to ensure that women's perspective is part of the general policy, whether in terms of financial policy or war or peace. The government will present a new action plan for women and gender equality in development cooperation. It shall be ready during the year. Of course, we will call for a broad process there, where a draft will be drawn up in consultation with many. When this draft is presented, we will invite comments from all teams – of course from women’s organisations, but also from all those who might be interested in commenting on it. Even the Progress Party is cordially welcome to comment on the question of whether they should show a lack of interest to women in development policy on a rare, sunny day! Finally, I would like to say that the Prime Minister has undertaken a very important task as one of the heads of the United Nations panel to look at the further fate of the United Nations. The questions we are discussing here today are among the questions that will be included in the work there. I believe that my advice to him will be what I have said here, namely that he must focus both on specific women's issues and that women's thinking must be integrated into all aspects of the UN's activities. And so must we do in our bilateral programmes and in the case of the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1452	I thank you so much for the answer, and I particularly thank you for the clarity of the Minister for Development that this is one of the most important issues in development, and really throughout policy. Development policy and foreign policy must be linked here. Then he showed us about the visit to Liberia. It is a bit exciting that she, who has just been elected President, is one of the authors of the very groundbreaking report on women, war and security, which has in a way provided the basis for the follow-up report to Security Council Resolution 1325. This report was ordered by UNIFEM, and as I read it, I can't get enough emphasis on how important UNIFEM is, and that we give them resources, so that they can come up with the skills that provide the basis for mobilization, and the new knowledge that we need. At all, this is a field where we constantly need new knowledge internationally, but also nationally. There's a field where there's been little research lately, so I want to ask the Minister of Development to take it along. I am also very pleased that he so clearly stresses that Norway will take on a leading role in working for women's sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights. I just want to leave the answer he gave, stand by himself and say that I am very pleased with it. He was in the financial position of women, and I fully agree that we must work in relation to the formal sector, but that it is particularly important to focus on the informal sector. It's in a way where women increase their share. If you don't do anything about that sector and give women more rights and better opportunities to get out of poor income, poor employment, etc., they won't get out of poverty traps. I agree that here we must have national and international cooperation. So to the evaluation report: The Minister for Development showed that there may not have been a good reading, and one of the reasons is probably what he points out that ‘gender mainstreaming’ has become a way of integrating women’s interests. Therefore we must say: Yes, thank you – both! We must not allow mainstreaming to become ‘malestreaming’. We have to make sure that specific measures targeting women are a prerequisite for equality to be a question that will permeate all parts, because this is about power. And then I'm very happy that the Minister for Development says so clearly that we need to bring with us the environments in Norway that have competence in this. There are a lot of people who have expertise, and who have experience from cooperation. And it's important to bring it!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1465	I'm just going to add a couple of things. Yes, of course we must support UNIFEM. We don't break the budget details at the moment, so we get Kristin Halvorsen and many other big sizes on our necks, so I don't dare. But clearly, yes, we're going to help strengthen UNIFEM, which is a very, very important organization. It's just one of the areas where we have to do both parts at once again, both strengthen UNIFEM as an organisation that is at the forefront of many specific women's actions, while, as I have written in the letters to the other major relief organisations or other major UN organisations, we expect them to also show results on women's issues. It concerns UNICEF, UNDP, the largest UN organisations. This concerns both the specific women’s actions through UNIFEM and the expectation that the major UN organisations will contribute more in this area. Then, under the auspices of the major UN organizations, under the auspices of the World Bank and under the auspices of the World Bank, we can contribute money to actions that we believe have a positive impact on women. Budget support, on which the interpellant was involved, is a very good example of this. Basically, as I see it, it's a proper and fine measure. It's giving power over the development of a country to its democratically elected leaders. It is only possible to imagine this in a country where there is a degree of democratic legitimacy. You let the leaders decide which direction the country should go, you make it possible for them to plan, and you make it possible for them not to deal with tens of thousands of donors who come with each of their little projects. There's a lot of good reasons for this. However, in countries that are highly humanly dominated, it may lead, for example. for women to fall out of the decision-making process. Then we have to look at how, from the Norwegian side, we can contribute to women's issues being held up in the debate with the country's authorities. It's never the case that you just give budget support and say, "Use it exactly as you want." There is always a broad process between the embassies of a country and its authorities on how to design budget support. We can't hold on to all things, but it'll be an important Norwegian role in this process of promoting a woman's perspective, so that it's part of the decision-making process when the country's finance department puts the big lines. In addition, we can then assess specific Norwegian women’s projects and measures, such as: support to non-governmental organisations that can also contribute. I just want to end by saying that one of the areas where I've noticed the strongest commitment of the Greatness in development policy, and that's what I'm terribly pleased about -- is what's very finely called women's reproductive health, or a little bit more Norwegian: sexual health and molestation. There I feel that there is a great commitment, especially from the women of the Stortinget, but also from others. Nothing is better than that. If you can help keep this tab high in Norway and internationally, it's great!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1476	Let me first join both the inter-pellant and the Council of State posts. I'm not going to repeat what they said. Let me also congratulate Mr Ågot Valle, the interpellant, on focusing both on women in development and on addressing a topic related to the content of the assistance provided by Norway to poor countries and different target groups. The debate on development policy is often about the share of gross national income we are going to grant each year, and it is an important debate. However, we also need to stop and discuss the priorities we are going to pursue within the approximately 18 to 19 billion DKK that we annually allocate to development projects. Of course, it is important that development policy is not just aid. It also underlined the interpellant. It is important to have a comprehensive Norwegian policy towards the countries of the south, focusing also on the underlying structural causes of poverty, and, in the context we are now discussing, the economic, but also cultural, religious, political and structural causes of the increasing female oppression that we find in very many countries, and the fact that poverty is being feminized. It is perhaps one of the most frightening, in addition to the fact that civil wars, conflicts and ethnic cleansing have hit women in a very cruel way. The violence in Bosnia was a cynical form of ethnic cleansing and an unacceptable assault on women and their integrity. Let me also add what the inter-pellant and the Council of State stressed, namely that the unholy alliance of the United States, the Vatican and some Islamic fundamentalist regimes, which are thus preventing prevention and reproductive health, are an important part of this picture, and that women in very many countries suffer because of this very unholy alliance, which has also been reinforced after the Vatican entered the United Nations system. We therefore need a comprehensive Norwegian policy that includes a strong priority for action aimed at women. We need normative work on attitudes and political will for women's liberation. It is important that the Government now proposes increased appropriations for women’s and gender equality measures for next year’s budget. But once again, as the Council of State said, here we have to say yes, thank you, both. It is not that we should only have support for women-based measures, but women-based measures or aspects of women must be integrated into our whole development work. This work may also be part of a comprehensive Norwegian development and foreign policy towards cooperation countries. Let me mention three countries where this is very interesting: Afghanistan, Sudan and the Palestinian territories. In Afghanistan, Norway currently has the largest quota of stabilising peacekeeping forces, not least in order to contribute to the security of the female population of a country that may have been and, in part, the worst in terms of female repression. The strengths contribute, inter alia, to: for girls to get to school, and for women to go to work. At the same time, we have made Afghanistan a cooperation country for Norwegian aid, with a significant emphasis on women. Here, too, it is quite important that we can actively use UN Resolution 1325, on which the inter-pellant was involved, which ensures that women are involved in building peace after war and conflict. A holistic approach, not necessarily in the same way, may also be considered in the context of Palestine and Sudan. In Palestine, our aid is aimed at building a state. A positive development for women must be fundamental to such work. So a paradox: our appropriations for Sudan, Palestine and Afghanistan are today considerably higher than what is given to several of our main co-operation countries, in order to complicate this picture. It may be time to review the relationship between the main co-operation countries and the co-operation countries. There is no reason to believe that the appropriations allocated to these countries will fall in the coming years. Finally, I would also like to mention that the elections in several Latin American countries have resulted in a number of red-green regimes of different shades. Shocked democracies need support. In Chile, as the Council of State said, there is both a female president and also a majority of women in the government. I believe that, on a political basis, we should support the well-being of the Chilean government with a view to promoting the situation of women. Finally, I would just like to mention that the evening post on Sunday brought the news that Iran is going to imprison women who are not really dressed, i.e., with chador or equivalent. This means that both Iranian and foreign women who break this dress code are to be punished by up to 10 days in prison. I would ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take up this matter, and that they also summon the companies operating in Iran, to make them aware that this is something they must also address.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1502	First of all, I want to give tribute to the representative Valle for taking the initiative in a debate on women in poor countries and the importance of focusing on women's living conditions and positions in order to create development in poor countries. Gender equality is important. What characterises many of the poor countries is not only that they are poor, but that there are great differences in the position of men and women in society. There may be religious, political or cultural reasons for this. For any reason, one needs to focus on these things, because often it can be said that the path to development in poor countries is just going through women. Women's conditions are particularly bad in some Islamic countries. Canadian author Irshad Manji has written that the path to modernising Islamic countries, which are lagging behind in development, is just going through women's liberation. Of course, this does not apply only to Islamic countries, but the challenge is perhaps greatest in these. It is therefore essential to maintain the focus on equal rights for boys and girls, for example. education and gender equality with respect to, for example, property rights. The Progress Party is sceptical about today's passive aid policy towards poor countries. We see that the main share of the assistance given has not been a very positive contribution to lifting the poor out of poverty. In order for assistance to have some effect, it must be focused and focused on concrete objectives. A type of assistance to which Norwegian authorities have too little focus is the assistance that may work best of all types of assistance, namely microcredit. Grameen Bank is perhaps the most famous microcredit bank, and it has raised a large number of women out of poverty and contributed to women's liberation in poor countries. Mostly, the focus of Grameen Bank's small lending is on women. Poor women get loans to buy e.g. a sewing machine and some textiles, so they can start on their own. Granting small loans with a claim for repayment instead of making no claim leads to women maintaining their dignity and feeling that they are perceived as business women who can take responsibility and stand on their own feet even after the loan has been paid. This is very important and has proved essential for the success of microcredit. The refund rate on the loans in Grameen Bank is up to 98 pst. It is therefore important that, in the context of development, we focus strongly on the position of women in the poor countries. Where assistance is provided, it is necessary to require recipients of assistance to be treated as equivalent to boys and girls, men and women. This must be reflected in the law in relation to the right to education and health care. Gender equality is about propriety, and when, for a number of reasons, more than half of the population are kept out of the system, it goes without saying that the path to development is unfortunately very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1511	The regulatory time is approaching the end, and the President will propose, as the list of speakers seems, that we continue beyond the regulatory time until the debate and the vote are over. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1514	Like the other speakers, I want to thank the interpellant for raising a question that the Storting has been very concerned about in the five years I've been here, and that profitably now comes up in a separate interpellation. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was good, and which in many ways drew up some of the lines from the broad debate we had on the assistance message last year, on how to proceed. As many have said, if a few have to do something in these countries, the position of women needs to be strengthened both in the formal and informal sectors. In order to put women on the agenda of the countries concerned, and in particular to find sufficient resources to achieve results and make the right priorities, more women in these countries need to be given positions and influence. And if they are to get it, and also have the strength to assert their claims, there is a need for a general strengthening of the social position and security of society. Then there are a number of things going on; I remember from the debate last year how much focus there was on issues like ownership, inheritance. One is far behind in these areas, and it gives social insecurity to women in those societies where they don't have these rights. One example here is the development of a country like Rwanda, where, after the genocide, men — some were dead, some had fled and some were in gerlja — had to go through changes in the laws that resulted in both inheritance and property rights for women for purely practical reasons. And it has had an enormous impact on the further course of women's own ability to influence their own situation in, for example. That country. Last year, when dealing with the aid message, we had a significant debate on women-related issues. I am now thinking with some wonder that we were able to entangle ourselves in such a long discussion if we were to go in to define it as our own theme or ‘mainstreaming’. I fully agree with the Council of State that yes, thank you, we want both. It was mentioned here that we can meet our own strategy and, I understood, an action plan in this area, and it will be received with great interest. We would like to contribute from our side to the further treatment of it. But to say a little more about ‘mainstreaming’ — that is, both in our own work, bilaterally, and not least in multilateral work. It's a very challenging way to work with a goal, because we really don't have any good evaluation methods to bring back what we achieved through mainstreaming. I want to mention that I see very special challenges in multilateral work, especially in the United Nations, when one wants to work that way, but there are obvious opportunities to promote women-related issues both in the newly-organised MR work in the United Nations and in the Peacebuilding Commission innovation, because in war situations we have just seen the biggest violations against women. And in the reconciliation work, where women are often very central, we will also need their participation in the phase of setting up society after the conflict, in a way that takes full account of women's rights. So I think it's a very important forum to promote this case in. Otherwise, I think there is a flaw in our system in developing good tools, methodologies, for how one will actually evaluate the results of a purpose that is ‘mainstreamed’. Here we have a lot of work to do, and I welcome the fact that a person can actually come up with some kind of innovation to also report results through that form of work. If we can't do it, mainstreaming is a way to get rid of a problem and have a good conscience – without really doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1527	I would also like to thank the interpellant for promoting this important matter. Too few focus on tragedies that particularly affect women. We know that among the world's poorest and most marginalised groups, women and children still constitute a clear majority. Therefore, our development policy, which is to combat poverty, cannot be gender neutral. We cannot combat poverty, disease or hunger without promoting equality and strengthening women's health. An overall increase expressed in the development Communication that these are priority areas for development policy. The Christian People's Party is committed to this. We know that education is the most central prerequisite for development, but still twice as many women as men are illiterate. About 115 million school - age children do not go to school. The majority of these are girls. We know that education of women and girls provides additional benefits such as lower birth rates, better health, fewer infants dying, and a healthier and more productive workforce. Women in education also see more clearly the need for their own children to receive schooling. Education of women and children must therefore be one of the main priorities of the Government. Investment in women’s health is also a prerequisite for combating poverty. Three of the eight thousand-year targets of the United Nations are related to women's health. The objectives to be achieved must, for example, be: Strengthening efforts to combat violence against women. Sexual harassment, rape and trafficking in human beings violate fundamental human rights and are currently a global health problem. Violence against women is also being used today as a weapon in war and helps spread the AIDS epidemic. Over 40 million people live with HIV today. Today we see a feminisation of the AIDS epidemic. In sub-Saharan Africa, women over 57 pst. by all infected persons. Young women are particularly vulnerable to infection. Most children who live with HIV and AIDS are infected by mother. One of the major global challenges related to women’s health is pregnancy, pregnancy and childbirth. Newborn mortality is perhaps the greatest humanitarian crisis we are facing. Every year more than half a million women die of complications related to pregnancy and childbirth, as a result of a lack of qualified help. In sub-Saharan Africa, one in thirteen women dies in pregnancy or childbirth, while in OECD countries only one in 4,000 dies. The number of women who have to live with permanent injuries is multiple. Bringing a child to the world should be a priority task, but once again we see that women lose out on health policy priorities. We can prevent this with relatively limited use of instruments. Norway needs to be involved in strengthening international efforts aimed at reproductive health in general and molestation in particular. All women need to have access to reproductive health services by 2015, which is a new milestone within the UN Millennium Goal. We must also ensure that sexual and reproductive health is seen in the context of prevention against HIV and AIDS. Women must be given the opportunity to protect themselves against infection. We must critically discuss cultural and religious factors that involve an increased risk of HIV infection. In many cultures, women have minimal control over their own sexuality and have been given up on their husband or partner. We have to train girls, we have to ensure them access to health care and training, we have to strengthen local women's organisations, and we have to fight violence against women. It is very worrying that it is in the gender-related objectives of the Millennium Goals that we depend most on in the work. Norway should therefore raise this higher on the international agenda. Strengthening women's rights on a broad front is a prerequisite for combating poverty. Norway must also be willing to provide effective measures and necessary resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1545	It is true, as the previous speaker said, that poverty is being feminized. Two thirds of the world's poorest are women. 90 pst. of those affected by wars and conflicts, are civilians; they are innocent women and children. The HIV and AIDS epidemic is increasingly affecting women than in the past. Women are particularly affected by poverty and distress, war and conflict because of their often weaker position in society. Poverty is feminized, and it must, of course, shape, and it is our priorities for aid. Women-oriented assistance is effective assistance. In particular, the right of women and girls to better health and education is central to development policy. When we train women, we also increase the chance that their children will be educated. When women learn about health and nutrition, it strengthens children’s health. Promoting equality and strengthening the position of women is the third thousand-year objective of the United Nations. The reasons why poverty has so much a woman’s face are women’s lack of equality, lack of rights and lack of access to property and productive resources. In January I was so lucky that I got to travel to Malawi and with my own eyes see what Norwegian aid money goes to. Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world, and equality and women's rights mean something else than what it does here at home. Old rituals, superstitions and old attitudes are at the bottom and hinder women’s rights in Malawi as in many other developing countries. I'm sure you all got the news in winter, about the local cleaner, an elderly man, who was on his way to a new woman he was going to clean. This is an old tradition, and it happens every time a woman marries or has become a widow. The cleaning is that the cleaner spends one night with the woman. A consequence of this is an increasing outbreak of AIDS. At the same time, we know that many people believe that to cure for HIV infection, it keeps lying with a virgin five nights in a row. In 2004, an action plan was launched by the United Nations to strengthen the involvement of men in the fight against violence against women. It focuses on men’s contribution and responsibilities in the fight against violence and oppression of women. This is important, because if we cannot combat oppressive attitudes, old prejudices and religious rites that actually kill and oppress women, we also have a more difficult fight against poverty and underdevelopment. In Malawi we saw kindergartens funded by Nordic aid money. Because of Swedish and Norwegian crowns, young girls get school in Malawi, a ticket to a better life. Because of Norwegian aid funds, young people are taught reproductive health and how to combat the rapid spread of HIV and AIDS. We had to visit local hospitals. One had a little bit above 700 patients, of which about 60 pst. was HIV-infected. There was no water in there. There was no room for everyone – people slept more in the same bed, on the floor and out in the hallways. It was dirty and unhygienic, the heat was striking, and so was the smell. Seven out of ten die during the stay at that hospital. They didn't have enough drugs, they didn't have disposable gloves, and the doctor had to use the same scalpel for several operations. The German doctor we talked to, who was otherwise sick himself, he had malaria and was heavily overworked, said the following: This isn't a hospital, it's a place of storage before death. Women die under conditions here that the Western world cannot be familiar with sitting and watching. Bring you one thing home, he said: it's not just Malawi's women who die here, this isn't just Malawi's problem and shame, it's the world's women who die here, and it's the world's problem and the world's shame that this happens. We're all guilty of what we don't do to help. At the same time, we have political parties here at home that think we should do less and no more to help these women. I often think about which of the projects I saw in Malawi that the Progress Party will cut out only when they propose to cut the aid. The Progress Party must have an answer to that. It would be pointless to be committed to strengthening women's rights and living conditions in debates such as today, when they at the same time propose to cut aid in every budget. The progress party could enjoy meeting their cut proposals face-to-face, for example. in Malawi. Most of these faces are women's faces. Norwegian assistance is by far the most effective. If we do more, we can do more. With extra attention to the women’s perspective in the aid policy and with increased aid in the number of crowns, the new government provides even more targeted and even more effective assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1571	Yes, then this day became a sunny day. Because even the Progress Party was clear that we must ensure equality between women and men. So I hope that sunny day comes when the same view becomes applicable here in Norway. At the same time, I agree with Anette Trettebergstuen's criticism of the Progress Party when they want to cut the aid. I want to tell the story of Marguerite from Burundi that I met years ago. She was then the foster mother of 150 Hutu and Tutsiungs, Hutsier she called them. She believed that just bringing the kids together and letting them live together would make the world go on. Today she runs home for child soldiers, and she gives kids education. There are many marguerites around the world. They're more or less visible. This is how we need to get hold of them in order to be able to cooperate with them, we women, Norwegian authorities and women’s organisations – which in many ways are much more progressive than most of us are. The embassies must then also have the skills to identify these, so that we can help to support the work done. I am very pleased that the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes stressed so clearly that we must have both «mainstreaming» and special women's actions, and that we must try to develop evaluation methods that can measure this, so that we can get knowledge to act on. As the Minister for Development said, since the Prime Minister is at the heart of reforming the UN, it is important that the Prime Minister also take this perspective into account in this work. Marit Nybakk strongly supported the need to address the structural causes of poverty. It's very, very important. I think we have discussed far too little the need to see development policy and foreign policy in a context. When we conduct WTO negotiations, therefore, we must also put on the women's glasses and see: how will this we now do affect the women of the world? Øyvind Waksdal referred to microcredit. After seeing the results of that in Bangladesh, I supported him in what he said. It's a very important tool. But that's not enough. We must support women's self-organization; we must support the fact that these women get a vote both nationally and internationally. I think that if we also give them money to meet in international forums, we give them the opportunity to be the powerful voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1586	It has been said very much sensible, correct and positive in this debate. Let me start with Anette Trettebergstuen, who came home from Malawi encouraged what Norwegian development assistance to Malawi can accomplish. I think that's really nice to hear, and I think it's also right that it contributes in a very positive way. What it also says about gross superstitions and prejudices that still exist is that there is of course something we should help to combat, even though it is somewhat unclear how widespread it is — whether it is something that the large majority of the population has, or whether there are very special groups. Line Henriette Holten Heimdal took up AIDS, which is largely a female disease. What makes this particularly horrific is that we now have the means to keep a person infected with HIV, alive for the rest of his life, to die of heart attack, cancer or anything else, or just of old age. It costs $1, $6, a day for the rest of your life to keep an AIDS-capped person alive. The rich countries can afford it, it can afford the middle-income countries of the world, but it cannot afford a country like Malawi, which is mentioned here. As the representative says, AIDS is becoming a female disease. Finn Martin Vallersnes brought up a theme that is actually very, very important in the context of women, and it's ownership and inheritance. The work now under way internationally, for which Hilde Frafjord Johnson took a significant initiative, the so-called formalisation agenda, is taking place, among other things. to establish rights, and in particular the rights of the poorest – those most on the sidelines, which are therefore often women. Øyvind Waksdal thought the microcredit was good, and I fully agree. It was even so that in his day I proposed Muhammad Yunus, the head of the Grameen Bank, at the Nobel Peace Prize. I would like the Progress Party to repeat that proposal. I think that was a very good proposal. He has contributed tremendously to bringing the idea of microcredit into the world. But Bangladesh is otherwise a country that shows that Islam has many faces, for the face the representative drawn by Islam is true. Islam is in many places a reactionary women's oppressive ideology. But Bangladesh is also the only country in the world where two female leaders fight for power every day. There is no male leader who inspires to become prime minister in Bangladesh. There is also a country where women are moving forward on all indicators, many more girls are coming to school than before, and women's participation in society is on the move. So Islam is both. Finally, Marit Nybakk drew up many general and important aid policy issues that we come back to. It is, of course, a paradox that Sudan, which is now the country in the world where Norway has the widest and largest involvement, is not considered to be either a main cooperation country or a cooperation country. But countries that have a different status get a lot, a lot more. That we have to look at these concepts again, I fully agree, and we will have ample opportunity to come back to that in future debates. Finally, thank you very much to Mr Ågot Valle for raising a very important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1603	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over. As the representatives have understood, there has already been a call to voting, and we may be ready to vote in a moment. – It will take a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1611	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1619	During the debate, Øyvind Korsberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the Revised National Budget for 2006, to introduce simplified notices when purchasing below the national tender threshold and to facilitate an effective, non-bureaucratic national web-based structure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-25.ana.ud134e1903	In Case No: 3–6 there is no voting theme.
