ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e37	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative Eli Sollied Överaas from 5 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity, Oddbjørn Waterne, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e55	The polar bear Waterne is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e60	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e75	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e80	On behalf of the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten and myself, I am delighted to present to the Stortinget a proposal that people who are considered young people may retain the supplementary pension when moving abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e85	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e89	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Robert Eriksson and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to remove the restriction for young people to keep the supplementary pension for longer stays abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e94	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e97	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Tord Lien, Torbjørn Andersen, Robert Eriksson, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself to halve the VAT on electricity and remove the electricity tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e102	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e116	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 109]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e132	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 109]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e146	The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives an article of up to 10 minutes. After these posts, up to five lines are given access to row blanks. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, followed by a row of up to three lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 18 Posts, Advance Party 11 Posts, Right 7 Posts, Socialist Left Party 4 Posts, Christian People's Party 3 Posts, Center Party 3 Posts and Left 3 Posts. After up to two of the five-minute submissions from each group, access is given to a row of up to three rows. In addition, the President proposes that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Finally, the President would remind us that replicas are deflected from the interlocutors standing on the floor. The speaker who has to reply to replies does so from the pulpit before the President, while the replicants use the pulpit that stands before the bench of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e161	This government has a very clear and very concrete task, and that's to do what we said we should do before the election, implement the promises we gave to the voters. That means that we are going to implement the Soria Moria declaration, that we are going to implement what is in our political platform. The main goal of success for the Government is how much we can do to say: This is what we promised, this is what is in our platform, and this is what we have done after four years and we are going to present a political account to the voters. Meanwhile, there will be a lot of discussion, a lot of different opinions, also internally in the government parties, about how we're going to solve the problems, and how we're going to achieve the goals we set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. We need that debate both with the opposition and with the social partners, and in the general social debate, and we need discussion in our own parties as long as it doesn't weaken the Government and the Grand Duchy's ability to implement the policies we went to elections, and the promises we've made. It is therefore gratifying to see that the Government, which has been sitting for nearly one year, is doing well to do what is its task, namely to implement the Government's programme. We have succeeded with the most important thing, that of turning the direction of social development, we have managed to base other values on the policy that is being pursued, and we have managed to show that there are more than empty words when we say that we want a society where we focus on more community rather than on the privatisation of basic welfare goods such as school and care. We're saying we're going to spend the big money on the big problems. We use them on care, on work and on education instead of on large tax reliefs to people who have more than enough from before. The fundamental change in price is fairer distribution and more commonality, and the government is doing well after almost one year in position. We have three years left to implement what we have promised. Therefore, I would like to start by just referring to someone – not everyone, but some – of the areas where the government is now doing concretely what it was supposed to do, where we are delivering election promises at a high pace, and at the same time pointing to how we are going to move forward in some of these important areas. A very concrete promise was full child-care coverage. We've set a new record in kindergarten development. Nine out of ten who want it, get room in kindergarten, but still it's kindergarten queue. That's why we've now invited to national work, with municipalities, with parents and with kindergarten builders, to make sure that we reach the goal of full kindergarten coverage, and that we can say that it was this big business and this government that finally managed to make sure that anyone who wants it gets into kindergarten. It's especially in the big cities we're struggling to get full babysitting. That's why we have a special effort and a special cooperation with these, and we're going to introduce a new grant next year, a grant to temporary places, so we're going to get speed on babysitting development in the big cities as well. In Tromsø they have done full child care coverage, in Trondheim they say they will do it during the fall, and then it must also be possible to do it in the other big cities. Then a decisive step will have been taken to succeed with full child care coverage, kindergarten to anyone who wants it. The other applies to school. Because the municipalities have received considerable extra income, it is the case in Kommune-Norway that now the school building is being cleaned up, the swimming pool is being filled with water, and more teachers are being hired. Norwegian school is in a situation where one can add up instead of building up, as we saw in a lot of municipalities under the previous government. But we're not satisfied in this area either. That's why we want to move on. Next year, we'll invest well over $1 billion in raising school quality. We will carry out the promise of knowledge as promised. That means over 900 million. for the further training of teachers, higher quality at school through better teachers. That means several hundred million dollars for new textbooks in primary school, and that means that next year we will take the first step: the first class class in secondary school will receive free learning material — an important election vow. We started work in 2000, but it was terminated by the previous government. Now we're back on track to make sure that we take the first step towards free learning as early as next year. Health and care: There has never been more money for health and care. We've never treated more patients. Queues are reduced. Waiting times have been reduced. Still, we're not satisfied. There needs to be more investment in health and care. In particular, we have to step up within the psychiatry, and we know that we need to organize the health care system better, so that we ensure local hospitals, and so that we get more health for the big investments we make in Health-Norway. Because we strengthened the municipal economy, we are on track for the target of 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly, i.e. 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly, a few more hands. We're on track, because we've made sure that the municipalities get extra income. They have received 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly. It means more quality, more proximity, more warmth and more security for people who need it. It means a more valuable age, and that means that even young people who need care get a better offer. We're not here either, but we're good at it. We are on the way to strengthening care in this country. We invest more in the way and the way. We see the need for this, both in order to improve visibility and to strengthen the environment, but not least as an important contribution to economic development in our country. And then this government takes responsibility for a major and difficult challenge facing the country, and that's how we're going to ensure two important considerations: adequate supply of electricity and at the same time comply with our international environmental obligations. We can't pick one or the other. We cannot say that we should take care of the environment and therefore cannot make sure that households and businesses have sufficient access to electricity. Nor can we say the opposite, that we are only concerned with power supply and therefore cannot take care of the environment. This government has as its goal, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, to do both, unite growth and protection, energy and the environment. First of all, we do that by devoting $20 billion to a fund to finance new renewable energy. There is more than any government ever before, and that means more money for wind turbines, for bio plants, for small power plants and for other renewable new energy sources. Then I hear you think you need even more, but 20 billion kroner is a lot of money – more than a double of two years is a huge increase. Here, too, we are doing well. The second thing we do is we contribute more to energy saving, to the rational use of electricity and energy. The third thing we do is we use the gas in an environmentally friendly way. Construction of gas power plants on Kårstø is under way. But there are also investments in putting in place CO2 management, and we are negotiating and in dialogue with other companies to try to realise gas power in an environmentally friendly way within the Kyoto Agreement, within our international environmental commitments, and based on what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, that new concessions should be based on CO2 management. It's a demanding task, but it's a possible task. We're also doing it, because we need power, and because we need to take care of the environment and avoid global warming. The representatives in Stortinget who believe that we should not care about the greenhouse effect take a very serious chance. This also means that Norway is breaking out of international cooperation that has been important in order to establish an international regulatory framework to limit greenhouse gas emissions. We're betting on culture. We're going to the jail queues. We are strengthening our efforts in District Norway. We reintroduce a reduced employer's fee on the outskirts, and we do a lot of other things in very many other areas. We're increasing assistance and making an effort to vaccinate the world's children. But perhaps the most important single area that will decide if this government succeeds is whether we succeed in creating work for everyone. Then I mean work for everyone, not just in the traditional sense of the word, that we get unemployment down, the registered unemployment. I also mean working for everyone in a new and extended sense of the word, namely that we are more able to get all those who are completely excluded from the labour market, those who are neither in the job nor in the employment office – there are over 600 000 people – all or part of them back to work. Then it's about getting unemployment down. There's progress in the right direction. The unemployment rate has decreased by 36 000 in the last year. Unemployment is falling, employment is rising. Never before have more people been in work in Norway than today. It's a pleasure. We can't lean back and say that we're satisfied even if unemployment is low and employment is high, partly because there are 58 000 people registered unemployed here in the country. That is why this government is saying yes to active labour market policies, yes to income policies and yes to a responsible economic policy to ensure the competitiveness of businesses, to ensure low cost growth and to ensure, through labour market policies, that those who are currently struggling to get a job can be helped into working life. But then we do more than that. During the autumn we will promote a big message about inclusion and work. It covers, for example: the most fundamental question facing this nation, and that is the question of why there are so many excluded. First of all, it is important that more people should be able to live on their own income, that more people should be able to work, is the most important contribution to reducing social inequality. The main reason for social inequality, for poverty, is that people are excluded and cannot use their abilities and facilities. The second reason why this is important is that the key to doing the big welfare tasks is that more people can contribute to the community. And in that big message, we're going to launch new ideas on how to do this job, how we're going to cooperate with the companies and with those who're closed out, to get them back so that they can increase their income, use their capabilities and facilities. Not 100 pst. work 100 pst. of the time for all, but something more than many more. Then there is the old message to ‘make your duty and claim your right’ that applies. We have taken inspiration from the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants, where we have called for social skills to be given some additional support. We will now apply the same thinking to a larger part of the labour market, so that we demand to qualify, to contribute in some way, but at the same time we must have the right to support, services, from society to be helped into the labour market. It's good for the individual, but it's not least good for society, because then we ensure increased value creation, increased ability to solve major tasks whether it's in the care of the elderly, in health care, in school or in other areas. In this light, there is also the discussion about sick pay, because when we entered into an agreement with the social partners on inclusive working life, it was partly to increase the actual retirement age, and partly to increase the number of people with disabilities into working life, but what had the greatest attention was to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. There are many good results from that agreement in many important areas, and many companies and many people are doing a fantastic job. Nevertheless, the results are so far not good enough. And after we renegotiated the agreement – we signed a new agreement last autumn – the sick leave has increased by about 5 pst. It has increased in all sectors, in the public sector and in the private sector. It has increased both in companies that are part of the IA agreement and in those that are not part of the IA agreement. This is a problem, because it is primarily an expression of the fact that working life is not adapted to the individual. Short-term absences are almost unchanged. It's stable. Long-term absences are increasing, and there is an image of a working life where too many people are being pushed out where it is not enough for the individual. The second reason why this is a serious problem is precisely that it contributes to making the supply of labour that we need to value well-being less. It is about 120,000 annual works that are lost through sick leave. Only in the last year does the increase amount to 13,000 annual works, while our target for the number of new annual jobs in the care of the elderly is 10,000. So just the increase in sick leave is more than what we have the ambition to get into the care of the elderly in ten years. So this is a problem there's a broad consensus that we have to do something about. The third is, of course, that it contributes to high expenditure, money we could have spent for other purposes. For this reason, the Government has made a proposal to extend the responsibility of employers for sickness benefits. At the same time, we have promoted extensive compensation and protection systems. We have reduced the number of days employers have 100 pst. responsibility for, from 16 to 14 days and protected cancer, chroniclers, people at rehab, pregnant women and very many other groups that we know from experience have a high level of sick leave. We believe that this proposal helps to reduce sick leave and provides employers, whether they are a municipal home or a private enterprise, with motivation to make more effort — call home, organise — for those who are on long-term sick leave. The proposal has met with much criticism both for its content and not least for the process leading up to it. That is why I am pleased that we are now having a dialogue with the social partners based on the agreement, which states in paragraph 6 that if developments are going in the wrong direction, the authorities should bring up new proposals for instruments and discuss them with the parties. That's what we're doing. And the basis for those discussions is that if it is possible to reach an agreement on proposals that provide for a corresponding reduction in sick leave and in the cost of sick pay within the framework of popular security, the Government is prepared to promote those proposals. The crucial thing for us is that there are measures that have a similar effect on sick leave as the proposals we have made ourselves. Pension is also a key to the question of how to secure work for all, a working life for all and labour that will solve our common tasks. Therefore, on the basis of the work started by the Pension Commission in 2000, and the agreement reached in the Spring 2005 Stortingen, the Government will promote more documents to the Stortingen during the period. The first will come in the harvest with proposals for a new model of popular security. Of course, it will be based on what is contained in the pension agreement, but there are only some frameworks and guidelines. What remains is a proposal for a concrete model and its design. Our starting point is that the current pension scheme is unfair. Today's popular fear is an unfair system. Many who had earned a higher pension get a low pension. The scheme contributes too little to making it pay to work. It's unfair because very many women who have had a long professional life, worked part-time, and paid into popular poverty over many years, end up as minimum pensioners. The government will do something about that. Those who work part-time and have low incomes will receive an additional pension. The second reason why it is unfair is that those who have had a long professional life, the labourers, do not get a pension for all the years they have worked. The last few years have been cut off. We want a pension system where the labourers get full pay for all the years they've worked, and for all the years they've paid for the social security. We want a pension system where it is significantly easier to combine work and pensions, social security and work. So we want a pension system that is substantially fairer, not as arbitrary as the current pension system is, and a pension system where it is possible to combine work and social security. We also need to ensure an early retirement for everyone in the population's backlog from 62 years. It's not like that today. At the same time, we will continue to maintain a contractual pension, but contractual pension should be adapted to the new pension system, and this should also be done through a broad dialogue with the social partners. This is perhaps the biggest and most important single thing this big business is going to deal with in this period, and that concerns most people. It's 1 million people who have the public interest as their main source of income. The most crucial thing about both the issue of fair distribution and value creation and our ability to create and share is how we deal with the social security system, our pension system. I am pleased that the Stortinget managed to make a broad settlement in 2005, and therefore the Government invites a broad settlement also in the further follow-up and implementation of the pension reform. It's an important task for us. The last example of the importance of labour is labour immigration. Norway may be pleased that many have wanted to move to Norway and work in Norway. It has strengthened the Norwegian economy. It has strengthened Norwegian welfare. But it also shows that Norway is part of a large international community. The decision to include former Eastern and Central Europe in an enlarged EU has had a major impact on Europe, but it has also had a significant impact on Norway. That means that what is happening outside our borders, whether it is enlargement of the EU with Romania and Bulgaria or that is the work we are doing in the UN, or the work we are doing to ensure peace in Afghanistan, is of great importance to Norway, including in ensuring our own well-being and our own security.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e221	I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's contributions, and I think very many of us who were sitting in the hall, in all materially agreed with much of what the Prime Minister said. That is exactly why I wonder why the Prime Minister is warning us of a radical change in course when almost none of what he said now testifys to it. What he said, bears witness to the continuation of the broad consensus that this hall has, the commitment to care for the elderly, the commitment to school, the commitment to health, the commitment to roads, the commitment to many important tasks. But the Prime Minister did not want to be able to talk about the two things that he highlighted most last year. One was the value of having a majority government. In the last year, it has appeared only as chaos, only as internal unrest, only as internal strife. It now presented the Prime Minister as a need for internal discussions. The other thing he talked about last year was to invite the opposition to cooperate. When does the Prime Minister intend to take it seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e226	Firstly, it is completely wrong to say that there is agreement on the priorities I have now set out in my article. It is true that in the budgets adopted by the Progress Party together with the previous government, tax relief was precisely chosen. What you spent the most on was reducing the tax to those who have the most of it. This is why the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, had to, for example, cut the unemployment rate for the unemployed, increase the excess, which we have now removed, and ensure that municipalities had so little money that it was cut in schools, fewer teachers and in need of care for the elderly. If the representative, Siv Jensen, has not realized that there is a dramatic difference between spending billions of dollars on reducing taxes instead of ensuring that municipalities have enough money for care for the elderly, for schools and for water in the pools, it is an expression of lack of ability or willingness to see major and important political changes that have occurred in Norway during the last year. I'm sure the unemployed who get more social security, and the teachers and others who get new jobs, see the difference, even though the representative Jensen doesn't see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e231	Now it's the way that the previous government spent the big money on creating an economic growth that makes us have a good well-being, and that makes us secure the jobs in the future, and I'm actually proud that we did. The Prime Minister gave many election promises. One of the most ‘intravenous’ was the promise that the majority government would remove the chaos in Norwegian politics – not that we had discovered so much of the chaos, but we have not discovered so much of it that it has been removed. An example of this, which has always been highlighted, is the budget negotiations on the Storting. In the last two years of the previous government, five days were spent on finalising budget negotiations. Now the Prime Minister will sit and lead a selection to negotiate the budget with the parties for six weeks after the budget has been presented. Does this mean that tomorrow's Government will present a budget they themselves do not consider serious, or have they initiated a process with the parties with which they are not serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e238	As I was in my post, the main goal of a government can rule, the main goal of whether a government has the power to act, the main goal of whether one has the ability to make decisions, if one achieves the results that have been set. That's how this government can prove that in less than one year we're doing very well. We make decisions, we implement reforms, and we do what we told us to do. We're delivering election vows. As far as the budget is concerned, the basis for the work to be done here is that we should have equivalent reductions in sick leave and in the cost of sick pay within the limits of public health, so that, of course, the budget stands and the framework is in place. It is not new that a government is discussing matters with the social partners that matter to the budget. This was the case, for example. the contractual pension and the contract of inclusive working life, where they negotiated with the parties and agreed on a framework of NOK 1 billion per year, and then they went to Stortinget. There is nothing new, but the framework of the budget is fixed. It is also the basis for dialogue with social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e245	The new thing is that the government first says that it has a majority and therefore this is implemented, and then starts discussions with the social partners, but I'm going to leave it. I'll let the Prime Minister talk about something that I know he's engaged in, and that he just mentioned with a confession in his post, namely assistance. The responsibilities of the Common Era in terms of the efforts of the world's poorest are weaker than the Soria Moria declaration. There has been uncertainty in the public debate about the Government really stands by its bold objectives in the Soria Moria declaration. I would therefore like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer clearly and clearly the following questions: Can the Prime Minister guarantee that during this major period the Government will honour the promise that the aid will reach over 1 pst. of gross national income? And even if the aid doesn't reach 1 pst. As early as 2007, can the Prime Minister confirm that the budget presented on Friday is still approaching the target and does not go in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e254	What I can confirm is that the Soria Moria statement is on track, that we are doing well to implement it, and that, of course, the objective is also to increase assistance to at least 1 pst. of GNI by teams. I'm not going to say anything about the budget. It will come tomorrow, but the representative Højbräten can – to put it that way – be happy with the budget! I also think it is good that the representative Højbråten raises the question of assistance, because it is one of the most important tasks of our time, and it is important that the government and the magnificence discuss how we should not only increase assistance, but also improve assistance. So I'd like to say a little bit about "guaranting." I chose not to use that word in the election campaign. It was conscious, because I think it's very hard to guarantee things 100 pst. But what I said to the voters before the election was that if we got a majority and formed a government with the other two parties, we would do everything we could to achieve the goals we had in our programs. That's what we're doing. The most important thing is that when we meet the voters after four years, we will show that we have fully fulfilled in many areas. And then there's definitely some areas where we haven't completely reached, but then we're going to give good reasons for that, or be far on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e263	I understood that the Prime Minister or the government would not say anything about the budget until tomorrow. It reminds me of the quotes from yesterday's NOKAS trial, where the defendant Toska stated that they had distributed all the money. I also have the impression that the government has already done before tomorrow! [[Laughter]] Otherwise I have to say that I think we have an offensive and optimistic prime minister, and I think that is good. It is good for the country, it is good for the policy, and it is also good for the opposition. It's not obvious that it would be like this when we've seen the turbulence lately, and that the government's efforts in the first year have contributed to maybe the greatest right triangle measured in polls for our two largest right parties ever. My question concerns the relationship of the Prime Minister and the Government with the Stortinget. There was no mention in the nostalgia. No mention was made in this article now. It gave the Prime Minister the decisive emphasis in his declaration of government and in the debate on the declaration of government one year ago. Is the Prime Minister standing by his ambitions he mentioned last year about the relationship with the Storting and the significance of it, as the President also reminded us during the religious ceremony, and can we expect an improvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e273	I think it's a pleasure to see the representative Sponheim again. He exudes optimism and progress, and that he has had a good and well-deserved summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e278	I can confirm that!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e283	It's great in the mountains! Then I want to say, of course, that we also want to cooperate with the opposition in Stortinget. I may have mentioned the most important thing, the pension reform, the future of the people's rights. There we have had dialogue and want more dialogue with the opposition in Stortinget. We have also said that, for example. the whole state-church question is such an important matter. But in general we encourage – and I have made it clear to my government councils – that there should also be as much contact as possible with the other parties on the Stortinget in a number of smaller cases than the major reforms. But the difference between now and before is that the processes have to be resolved to a very large extent before the proposals are promoted by the Government. That is why I am concerned about having dialogue, in large and small cases, with all the parties on the Storting before the cases are presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e290	I registered that the Prime Minister was competently unable to answer Siv Jensen's questions about what was the big issue and what the Prime Minister focused on last year, that we should get a majority government that created calm and predictable, without any threat to society. I would like the Prime Minister to respond to whether he himself feels that it has now become calm and that there is predictability with a majority rule. My second question is that the Prime Minister spends a lot of time working for everyone. I think that's a little strange, because the first thing this government did was to reverse all sorts of flexible arrangements that the previous government, along with the Progress Party, opened up, so that you could open the door to those who had trouble getting into work. Among other things, the temporary employment scheme was reversed, which was perhaps the biggest premise for the weak to enter the labour market. It does not, of course, relate to all these proposals that are now to come from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e297	What I have made clear to several representatives during the day is the following: we have the tranquility and predictability we need to implement our political programme. That's the calm a government needs. There's certainty that we'll do what we promised the voters, and there we're doing very well. But we need to be concerned about the discussion about how to get there, about new issues and new instruments. There we need a discussion as long as that discussion does not weaken our ability to achieve our political objectives. The combination of a healthy, constructive turmoil with firmness and calmness to implement the conclusion once it is drawn is a very inspiring situation to be in, and in which this government is located. It's a new and interesting experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e302	After this succession of lines, the President must be able to state that no one has any reason to feel as if he were in this room, at least not in the same way as they were in the NOKAS case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e305	When expressed in such general terms as the census and as the Prime Minister now did, it is easy for the Stortinge to agree on the need for better care for the elderly, a better school, better health care, etc. What becomes interesting, and which will first show whether it is a real and radical change of course on the part of this government, is when the concrete things come to the Stortinget. It is when the state budget comes tomorrow that we will see whether there is a real difference in priorities and in the course of policy. I want to highlight something that was positive from the throne. It is positive when the Government announces that they will now bring about a dental reform. It's been way too long for our teeth to be ripped off from the rest of the body. That is not reasonable from a financial point of view. There are many people who think it has been expensive and uncomfortable to have to pay very much for dental operations when the rest of our body is viewed as a whole. It is also positive when the Government emphasises that they will focus more on integration and more on fighting crime. What remains to be seen is how the Government intends to implement these promises. Unfortunately, what was not mentioned in one single word, either by the Prime Minister now or in the throne, is how the Government intends to control asylum policy. The government announced a somewhat stronger focus on combating the growth of identityless asylum seekers in Norway and people who are here without having legal residence. We have therefore allowed ourselves to make a proposal in the Chamber today to ask the Government to ensure better control of foreigners who are illegally present in Norway. I hope that the government will take it seriously. This is an increasing problem because it generates more crime and insecurity for ordinary citizens in this country. The second thing that was completely absent was the eagerness to tell about the excellence of the majority government. I think the Prime Minister handled this very skillfully in his speech by talking about the need for both internal discussion between the government parties, with the social partners and with the opposition. That's quite true, but that's not how the government has turned out. The government has emerged as a chaos project that is unable to agree on any of the world's things, where one government party after another makes great retreats in many political matters that they promised the voters to do before the elections. In energy policy, for example, we have. see SV to correct the times by now accepting a completely different view of gas power policy from that of their respective policies. I think it's very good, but it's just so sad that the government isn't willing to go far enough to make progress in the construction of gas power plants in Norway. The Prime Minister pointed out a few days ago the care of the elderly as perhaps the most important matter for this government. That's good. But what's not good is that the only solution the government has so far presented is more money to the municipalities. It is therefore a fact that there is a large deficit in hospital settings in Norway. This means that there needs to be much greater and more active cooperation between the state and the municipalities, so that a sufficient number of sick elderly people who have no place to take care of are now built. It is well and good to give more money to municipalities, but if the government does not send out any strong signals that recruitment of health professionals to care for the elderly also means an increase in the salary of assistants and nurses, the recruitment of these important professions will slow down. It will create problems both for the elderly and for the elderly of the future if you are not willing to send a signal that these are occupational groups that have a significant value for our society. The colonel had half a sentence about the hospitals. One of the main challenges facing the country’s hospitals is that today’s financing structure does not at all take into account the building mass, the renewal of equipment and the general maintenance needs. This means that we have a major challenge within our funding systems to facilitate conditions so that hospitals around the country are not penalised economically if they clean up their buildings, renew the building mass or replace old equipment with modern ones. It has to be compensated. It needs to be compensated for in such a way that investing in new and modern equipment actually pays off so that patients can be treated more quickly and with more effective and correct medical devices, which may make people healthier and more likely to get out of health care. And I would like to challenge the Prime Minister on that. When, then, does the Government intend to do something about this, and what will they do with the funding system so that the building stock and equipment needs of the country's hospital are better cared for than today? There are many important issues that can be discussed in a debate on the throne. At the same time, we know that the state budget will come tomorrow, and there we will see whether this government actually comes with concessions in relation to all the promises they have made during a long election campaign and the last year. Energy policy is such an area. There are many of the country's inhabitants who are now afraid of winter because once again we have come into the very special situation that we do not have enough energy, which means that the population is at risk of having to pay very dearly for the flow. It is necessary to develop the resources on which Norway has ample access and which in themselves will be one of the most environmentally friendly productions in the world, without even taking into account the debate on CO2 management. This is primarily about our ability to be forward-looking. What we as a nation have done in the North Sea over the past thirty years has been a good way of renewing the environment by constantly developing new technologies that have made the production of oil and gas in the North Sea more and more environmentally friendly – and now so environmentally friendly that emissions are scarcely traceable. The exact same thing would happen with the gas power plants. If we now allow the construction of gas power plants with the technology we know today, it is quite obvious that by building them out we will also develop new technologies in the years to come, which will help to make the production more and more environmentally friendly in the time to come. But if you don't do that because you have to put the environmental symbols ahead of the need for secure energy supply to households, and also to the power-intensive industry, which is an important part of Norwegian business, then old people. And it unfortunately makes this government, just the same as the previous government did. Environmental symbols are becoming more important than energy production, and it is the inhabitants and the powerful industry that have to pay the bill for it. That's not fair. We can do two things. One thing we can do now is immediately halve the VAT and remove the electricity charge, so that you can help households in relation to increased electricity prices. But it doesn't give you any more energy. That means we have to start new production at the same time. Over the last ten years, the majority of population has systematically voted down any proposal for the development of new hydropower production in Norway, despite the fact that it has to be considered as the most environmentally friendly power generation of all. Why in the world can the majority of people sit and be satisfied that they have said no to the production of the world's cleanest energy, on which Norway really has ample access? In conclusion, I should like to address the proposal of the Advance Party, which has been distributed in the Chamber. I also want to challenge the Prime Minister for one thing that he really hasn't responded to, and it's about the relationship with Stortinget. One of the first prime ministers said when his government joined was that he wanted to have good dialogue and good cooperation with the Stortinget and with the opposition. So far, cooperation has been completely absent. I think it's a little strange, because it was one of the first Prime Minister's invitations to the Storting. But it's probably because you've had more than enough to keep track of your own ranks so far in their reign.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e341	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e346	I expect that it is still safe to feel the chairman of the party on his teeth. Although the representative Jensen still says that it is impossible to see changes in the policy after the change of government, I am quite certain that the Chairman of the Advance Party has discovered that the party itself no longer has the hand on the steering wheel as they had in the previous period. [[Laughter]] Then my question is: has the Progress Party really not noticed that the weakening of the work environment law that they themselves voted for in the previous period has stopped? Have they not noticed that the privatisation of school and care, which the Progress Party agreed to in the previous period, has stopped? Have they not noticed that the large money is no longer distributed in tax relief to the richest, but goes to school and care around the municipalities? Haven't you seen it, or don't you want to see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e353	Now, the government has not exactly contributed to improving the work environment law, rather, on the contrary, only helped to make working life more precarious and less flexible. But that's what the government answers for itself. What the government has also contributed to is reducing the freedom of choice for ordinary people in this country as to what kind of school their children are going to attend, and what kind of care we want for our relatives and for ourselves in everyday life. There's a change of course, but it's very little visible at the moment, and it's obviously because there's been very little growth in both school change and care development. Then the government would like to continue talking about tax relief to the rich and strengthening of the community. But what they're not saying at all about, is that this country, perhaps the richest country in the world, that goes with huge profits every year, can't translate it in such a way that it benefits the inhabitants, but uses the tax system consistently instead of allowing the inhabitants in general to keep more of their own income.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e360	On the radio today, Siv Jensen said that she does not see any difference in the policy that the Bondevik government led, and the one that today's government puts up to lead. I want to ask Siv Jensen, whom I consider to be an up-and-coming politician, two questions that I want two clear answers to: Does Siv Jensen not register that we have had a stop in the privatisation of Norwegian school by stopping the huge focus of the Bondevik government on getting more private schools? Doesn't Siv Jensen see that the bet on tax bills has stopped, and that instead you want to spend that money on community solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e370	In the case of taxes, Inge Ryan should be a little careful when a finance minister from SV actually gave the time's tax relief to those with high incomes. But that's a necessity in relation to the tax system we have. Rather, priority should be given to giving tax relief to ordinary people and means income in this country, so that more of the country's citizens can live on their own income and not be dependent on politicians' priorities at all times. For the privatisation of schools: those who have noticed this in this case are all students who want an alternative to public school. There are not so many of them, but the few students who want that freedom of choice, so they should no longer get it, because the Swedish government suddenly came into office and got it to realize that that freedom of choice is harmful to the citizens of Norway. I think it's a pity that you have so little confidence in the people that you don't let them make real choices about health, school and care, which may be the most important thing we do in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e379	The progress batch is the largest opposition batch. It is alarming that the Progress Party in important areas is not visible at all in public space, in public debate. Let me do two examples: The government has taken the initiative of a broad and deep change of words about the relationship between state and church — an important value debate, one in which most people are concerned, because, among other things, it is. apply to important landmarks in people's lives: baptism, marriage, burial and Christmas. The progress party is missing. The government has also expanded and developed the Norwegian European policy: news, new giving, previous submissions, more publicity. An active policy in this field is important in relation to Norway’s interests. Again, the Progress Party is absent. It is easy to smooth the step-by-step position role with a sweat cheese, the distinguishing marks in the case of a clearly visible hole. My question is, why is the Progress Party so tense on these two central areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e392	That's not right. After all, for many, many years, the Progress Party has gone into a rush to bring up the debate on a distinction between Church and State. And that's precisely because we believe that you don't necessarily get a better church or feel more belonging to the Norwegian Church by having the state have full control over it. We have welcomed that debate for many, many years, and now it is there. Yes, now it's even on the Church's premises, and it's an interesting debate, which we've wanted to welcome for a very long time. As far as European policy is concerned, Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa is also wrong. The Progress Party is always taking part in the debate on Norway’s place in relation to our neighbouring countries in Europe. It is about the strength ratio between us, it is about how we are to safeguard our sovereignty in the northern regions, it is about oil and gas supplies, it is about fisheries policy. Yes, there are a number of issues at stake all the time, and in all these debates, the Progress Party is very active.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e399	I had the pleasure of participating in the Health and Care Committee's trip to the United States last week. There we had interesting meetings about biotechnology with professionals, ethicists and politicians alike. One of the most difficult ethical issues to deal with in this session is the proposal for a new law on biotechnology. In the U.S., we were told that in private tester fertilization clinics extensive research and sorting of fertilized eggs is carried out, and this sorting takes place both from diseases and from the sex. The Christian People's Party fears developments within this field by constantly shifting the boundaries of what is perceived as ethically sound. We are also concerned with the signal effect of sorting away fertilised eggs with severe heritable diseases to chronic diseases and people with disabilities. The Progress Party has been a strong driver for a liberal change in the Biotechnology Act. My question is: What limits does the Progress Party have for which sorting is permitted – or in a slightly different way: How does the Progress Party define serious heritable disease?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e408	I think all the political parties have had very thorough reflections on where the ethical boundaries are going to be in relation to the development of biotechnology. Although the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party here disagree on how far we're going, I don't think there's any disagreement that there are ethical boundaries in these issues that we have to take seriously all the time. But I think there is a difference between wanting to welcome biotechnological development because it can help save lives, because it can help us live longer and be healthier, and setting it up towards a development that this alone will contribute to a sorting society. I don't think any of us want a sorting society, but that we get new technology that can bring us forward and enrich us, yes, I think we should welcome that as long as we constantly take the discussion on this within ethical framework that is sound. Here perhaps the borders of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are different, but that does not mean that the Advance Party does not have ethical balances with this, and that only the Christian People's Party has it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e417	The President has to bite off when it comes to respecting his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e420	In many respects, the Progress Party has taken on an ombudsman role, e.g.: in order to combat discrimination against the elderly and to be commended. Yesterday we got a position that goes on the ombudsman role for all of us in this room on behalf of our descendants. We got the adjustment from the so-called "Low Emissions" Committee on Climate Policy. It impressed me that this setting was unanimous. It impressed me that this unanimous setting included Hydro and Statoil. It made my impression that it was said that it is possible in a time horizon until 2050 to turn around, because we have come to a point where we can no longer dispute that we have come too far. We have to do something. This unanimous setting is an invitation for anyone who wants to take on an ombudsman role – both for those who live now and for our descendants – to think. So my question to the representative – through the President – is: Does this attitude impress on the Progress Party and will it help the Progress Party to put climate policy on the agenda with the thought and seriousness of this vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e429	Although the Progress Party approaches climate and environmental policies with a completely different starting point from, for example: Left, that doesn't mean we're not busy with it. But that means we have other solutions to the challenges we face both now and in the future, than many other parties have. We mean, for example: that the best way to develop environmental technologies, good future-oriented environmental technologies, is to allow them to develop within the technologies we know today. We mean, for example: that the best way to protect the environment over time is to engage in cooperation and dialogue with business rather than the opposite, which has often been the solution of environmental policy. We mean, for example: that targeted charges are better than taxes that have ended up being fiscal, because the state treasury should be adequately filled in instead of actually achieving environmental benefits, as it is said, because the charges were initially introduced. So we'd like to discuss this, because it's important questions. But it has to be allowed to have a different approach than the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e439	The world is changing, changing that gives hope for a better future for more people. This century has brought a new era with new opportunities for many new people. Great countries such as China and India have opened their doors to globalisation, and millions of people have gained a better life and more economic security. The countries that have now opened up to globalisation have understood one fundamental thing: we can either let the future shape or we can shape the future. Faced with change, we can create an illusion of security by trying to put a stop to competition. It's putting your head in the sand. The alternative is to seize the possibilities. We can take real steps to meet real challenges, so that we create new and better opportunities for both students and students who are going to go out to work, a constantly changing working life, for all those who have fallen out of the labour market and who are sorely in need of a new chance, and for the companies that create the values we need to provide good public services and a good welfare society. If we are to maintain and strengthen today's welfare society, as politicians, we must want and be able to give priority to the most important thing first, show action and take bold thanks and choices to create good jobs today and better jobs tomorrow. It's a prerequisite for progress, and progress is a prerequisite for a society that provides opportunities, not just for some, but for all. Government is more than government. The government is leading. It's to stick out a course and know what's important, and then do something about it. Therefore, I am disappointed that the Government does not show the power of action where we need action, that the Government does not show the ability to prioritise where we need priority, and that the Government does not show signs of making choices that give us security, not only today, but also in the future. I'd like to admit that the government has a lot of good intentions. But many good intentions in many areas do not produce results where it is really needed, in the areas that are important to us all and to the country. The government ends up pursuing a policy without any will and without a profile. You run a policy that's piecely and divided instead of steering clearly and completely. In the long term, this provides a policy for lost opportunities. Right-wing wants a policy to provide opportunities for everyone. In this room, our role is to show an alternative policy course for the country. And there are good times in Norway right now – yes, good times because the previous government invested in creating the good times. But in good times we also need to invest for the future, so that good times continue. A policy that invests in the future also triggers opportunities for everyone and opportunities to invest in well-being. Right now, investing for the future means investing more in people. It means investing more in school and research. That means investing more in the way. And that means investing more in force. The NHO’s annual competition survey shows that we are following the other Nordic countries. There's no reason why we should, and we can and should do something about it. The right will facilitate an active business through a policy that actively governs our competitiveness. The government's response has been active state, which has become a significant amount of active chat. We reduced taxes by NOK 23 billion when we were in the government. The government's answer now is to increase taxes and taxes. We increased the research appropriations by NOK 3 billion, we fivefold the amount of the Research Fund and proposed an increase of another DKK 25 billion in our last budget. The government's answer was to reduce research appropriations. The future will reward the countries that are betting on people, who are betting on knowledge, and who are betting on new ideas. Research can be the starting point for the new industrial adventures, the new jobs and a better life. Less research now means lost opportunities in the future. When 211,000 tonnes of salmon and trout are raised each year only in North Norway, and large parts of this is transported out to customers across Europe by truck, we know that good roads are one prerequisite for good jobs. Or when the queue out of Oslo to the south is so long that a store queue in Oslo from the west, then there are many hours of work lost in the queue. So we can't have it like that anymore. Workplaces across the whole country need both more and better asphalt. So far, the government has not followed up the promises of road betting. That's why we proposed $300 million. More than what the Government did in our revised national budget, we have therefore proposed the creation of a road fund of DKK 20 billion, where the return is 800 million. kr per year, shall go to new and better maintained roads, not as a substitute for, but as an addition to, increased road appropriations. The population of Norway needs more electricity. A powerful industry with a future in front of it needs more power, and you only get more power if you build more power. So it's so simple, more power is also an investment for the future. In fact, if we are to meet the future with light in the thousands of homes and have jobs to go to, Norway now needs gas power plants. It is the most environmentally friendly solution, and the only solution that can really help increase power supply in Norway. The government has not so far contributed to increasing power availability. Lack of power also means lost opportunities for our society. We must have a sustainable energy policy. I agree with the Prime Minister that global warming is the greatest challenge facing the world. Therefore, we should continue to work to generate new and cleaner energy sources, more research on cleaner fuels, better management of CO2 from business and households. But we just have to stop sending gas south and out of the country in order for us to get power northwards and into the country in the next round. And we need green certificates, which provide better profitability for small scale green energy production. The government has put a line over green certificates, and I am now recording a disappointment at the alternative measures outlined, from all those who had been committed to the fact that alternative energy sources were really a bet area. So the answer to the challenges of the future is not to rule piece by piece and division. It gives lost opportunities for the future. It has to be clearly controlled, and it has to be completely controlled. Right will invest for the future. We'll bet on school, research, road and energy. It's a policy that triggers opportunities, and makes it possible to solve other tasks in society. In India and China, 1.2 million students complete a university degree in engineering and science every year. There are almost 300,000 more than in the EU and the United States in total. So global competition isn't going to be anything, it's already here, and it's going to be stronger. We need to deal with the challenges of globalisation, primarily by providing a society that provides opportunities for everyone. We're doing the best we can by trusting, betting on and investing in people. Investing in people – every human being, every human being – gives us security. It gives us confidence that your education gives you knowledge and enables you to realize the dreams and ambitions you have, security to know that you deserve and will get a new chance when you need it. None in this room can be unaffected by the fact that one out of four persons in employment are out of work. It's unacceptable. It is unacceptable for all those who want to contribute and who can contribute, but who do not get the chance, and it is unacceptable for the country that so many people are outside in a situation where we actually need their labour force. We have a system that deprives people of self-confidence that is required to cope with the labour market. We can discuss many measures, but the basic thing is that we deprive too many of their self-confidence in this way. That's what we have to do. The right has promoted a number of concrete proposals that will help more people to have a new chance of returning to work from outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e480	We have recently heard the Right Leader tell that to govern means to lead and strike out a course, and then keep the direction. It must be said that the responsibility of the Solberg State Council for the last period was clear and clear – it was the systematic starvation of Kommune-Norway. Now the representative of Solberg says that welfare is important, that the school is important – it must not be neglected. So the representative of Solberg also says in his post that it is important to give priority to road and transport. Then I recall that the previous government claimed that we were overreacting when we thought that the national transport plan was giving priority to transport too low. What's happened? Today, Erna Solberg is out saying we need more money for asphalt. So my question is, is this really a change of policy from the right, or is it so that we now see the new opposition clothes to the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e487	The most important task that the previous government had to start was to ensure that the floor plan of the Norwegian economy was put in order again after the management, among other things. under the Stoltenberg I Government. It helped the Finnish coast lose its jobs because the economy was not run in a way that gave sustainable jobs. That's why we made a policy that stimulated growth, and therefore we can now have a budget debate that is primarily about distributing the increased tax revenue, as the previous government's economic policy has enabled the current government to distribute. That's the story of the last period. All the history proposals for Hill-Marta Solberg otherwise are a rewriting. Municipal Norway has now received more money because of increased tax revenue than they received because of appropriations from the current government in the current year. That is why jobs are safer, the economy is better, and that is why it is also a healthier local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e492	One of the most important reforms that will be noticed in people's everyday lives during these four years is that we're going to get full child care coverage, and that we're going to get lower kindergarten prices for young children's parents. This was SV's clearest promise to people. But it wasn't just an SV vow. It was actually an agreement for which a total increase was entered into in the previous period. Nevertheless, in the revised national budget, which was the first possibility the Right had to increase this baby tax on families with children when they have their children in kindergarten, it was proposed to increase it again to NOK 2 750. I just wonder if that's how this is going to continue to be the right-hand side's policy. Is it true that there is no desire to improve the economy of young children's parents, or is it such that you do not trust that the right-headed municipalities of Sandnes, Stavanger, Bergen and Oslo will be able to meet the child hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e497	For no time, Norwegian families of children have had a better and more solid economy than in the last four years. Keeping an order in the Norwegian economy is that simple. Then you make sure that the interest rate is low, and that helps your children’s parents get a huge boost. Then one thing is absolutely right. The right has always said that the most important thing is to get full babysitting. The most important thing is to make sure that we get enough space, so that those who need a nursery place can have a nursery place. It was the policy of the previous government, and it is still our party's policy. We therefore proposed in the revised national budget to spend more money on non-discrimination between private kindergartens. It would help to provide even greater security for the private community, which would contribute to the speeding up of the development of kindergartens in several of the major cities. We choose the mechanisms that stimulate more kindergartens, while SV primarily frees with lower prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e504	First and foremost to Solberg's understanding of Norwegian politics. She said that the main task was to clean up and get the floor plan, among other things. after all the ewe that you had done to Stoltenberg. Now it's the way that Stoltenberg I just sat in the last four years. Before that, there was a center government, led by Solberg's previous boss. Is it so to understand that Solberg is now actually going in and is strongly criticizing Bondevik? Then I want to say that Solberg has now taken over the need to invest in public infrastructure, whether it's road, school or environment – but it's only after the opposition. This summer Solberg proposed 20 billion kroner. She took that money from the Government's investment in renewable energy. I want to ask how Solberg can defend the removal of our renewable energy investment and replace it with a charge on the electricity bill, which will lead to further higher electricity billing to the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e511	Now it's like we were in opposition to the Bondevik I government, too. We did not agree with the economic policy that was pursued at that time. It's a familiar case. It is also the case that we did not participate in any basis for the Bondevik I administration. Over several years at the end of the 1990s, there was a sharp increase in labour demand and a sharp increase in public budgets. It contributed to an imbalance. It contributed to an increase in the rate of interest. This contributed to the double of interest rates in Norway in the EU. This is important both for small businesses and for the family economy. So we've corrected that. So to the question of green certificates versus support. The important thing is to get to these projects, so that we get enough power and enough power. All the signals that are now coming from the industry are based on the fact that they are disappointed with the alternative solutions. Green certificates would be one way, so that the market cleared the most efficient and best projects first. That's why we've been following such a system. But now we're going to see if the support arrangements that are coming, in reality, mean that mass of the potential we have for green power, will not be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e520	The representative Solberg spoke in his post about lost opportunities. I have to say for my own part that nothing makes me so upset as to hear about lost opportunities. I'm glad that Solberg now joins the ranks of people who are concerned with real, equal opportunities, opportunities to influence their own lives, including in this room. I'm glad. But in this light, there's something a little funny out in our long-range country. Now it is the case that in several right-wing municipalities, Drammen, Bergen, Oslo and elsewhere, the rapporteurs hand out generously – the red-green millions who went to the different municipalities – to youth actions, to care for the elderly, yes, ‘you name it’ throughout the line. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Solberg: is it not that when these rapporteurs hand out generously, they hand out money they would not really have had if Solberg's representative had still run the country? Does the representative of Solberg think that there would be fewer lost opportunities for people in this country if the Right had still run Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e527	The most important thing to ensure that this country uses its potential in the future is to invest in people. Last year we spent SEK 1.6 billion – I heard the Prime Minister boasting of NOK 1 billion of the Knowledge Promise – supporting quality raising, for several lessons to take a turnout in Norwegian school. It is the type of action that contributes to providing opportunities in the future. Those who attend school today are those who will be in the labour market in 20 years and who will hopefully be there for 35-40 years. So they have to live in a different kind of world. So it's that in the budget last year, this government had an increase in free income of a little over 1 pst. more than the previous government had. It might be a little bit of a reflection when you boast so much of the increased appropriations. Tax revenue is thus higher – tax revenue that comes because we have been ordered in the Norwegian economy and that helps these municipalities to make a good offer. It's the same thing because they've experienced that the economy has improved. There has been a lower unemployment rate, and tax revenue for the municipal sector has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e534	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e537	How we care for our oldest and youngest is an important test of our welfare society. Therefore, safe growth and better care for the elderly are the main concerns of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party will work so that we can face old age with security. That is why we took the initiative in a cross-political effort in this field. We need to offer more than care – we also need to provide worthy care. It takes time for each one. Those who work with and for our older people are doing a lot of work, but we have to give them more space and opportunity to meet the needs of the individual human being. Recruitment needs to be increased and the competence of health and care professionals strengthened. The quality of services must correspond to the needs of the individual. The Christian People's Party will give older people greater authority over their own daily lives and better facilitate voluntary and family-based care. A lifting of elderly care must also ensure dignity in the final phase of life. Few things make a stronger impression than hearing about people who have had to suffer through their last hours alone. Don't let that happen! The government has recently submitted a communication on the care of the elderly. Several good intentions are outlined here, supported by the Christian People's Party, but we want a much more committed plan. A new quality promise in the care of the elderly must be based on clear commitments through a wide-ranging settlement in the United Kingdom. The Christian People's Party will continue to be a strong force for this to happen. Sick people need security to receive the treatment they need. From all over the country, cuts in the hospital offer are reported, including in the local hospital offer, as the government has told it to protect. Here, the government must take responsibility, give clear signals and frameworks, so that healthcare businesses can make long-term assessments and priorities, rather than short-term interventions that go beyond patients. The Christian People's Party is working for a child-friendly society, and we want to pursue a broad growth policy, where the family is at the heart of it. I record that the government barely mentioned the family in one word in the Soria Moria statement. Nor has the government seen the need to have a separate family minister. Tuesday’s speech was also chemically free from any reference to the importance of the family in society. This says something about priorities, and it says something about ideology and society. The Christian People's Party, as a Christian Democratic Center Party, will build society from below through families, volunteering, community and local business. We want to rebuild the family as the basic building block of society. The Christian People's Party will present policy solutions that create assumptions and opportunities for families, prerequisites for time with children and prerequisites for parents to choose the form of care they see is best for their own children. Therefore, cash support. As a result, there was an increase in the number of paper paper mills. Therefore, flexible and reasonable childcare facilities adapted to the needs of families. Stressed everyday life between working life and family life must be met with the tranquillity that freedom of choice and diversity can create. When the government in its first budget cut over 300 million. In the case of cash support for Norwegian families with young children, there is – to quote an opposition politician at that time – ‘reversal policy’ of the worst size. It is also contrary to the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. For the vast majority of children, home is a good place to be. However, this does not apply to all. Every five Norwegian children feel unsafe in their own homes because of their parents ’ abuse, severe mental illness or drug abuse. The Christian People's Party will speak the matter to these children. We will fight for increased skills in auxiliaries, the strengthening of child protection and a solidarity of alcohol policies. Better provision is needed for families taking on foster home chores. The school is central to Christian People's Party's growth policy. Unfortunately, the census suggested that the government's prescription at a good public school is to put obstacles in the way of the 2 pst. by Norwegian schoolchildren attending a free school. A good public school is about something much more. It's about adapted training, teachers who are safe in their role, and a good environment in the classroom. The Christian People's Party wants a school where students get both knowledge and well-being, a school in close contact with the family and the rest of society, a school that creates awareness of value. In a very good and thoughtful speech at the opening of the Stortinge, the President of the Stortinge came into the important role of the Stortinge even in a situation of majority rule. The government's representatives, with the Prime Minister at the head, have also stated on several occasions that they will listen to wise input from the opposition and seek broad solutions in the Storting. I think it's a good intention that the government should put much more emphasis on surviving than what has been the case so far. In this way, the Prime Minister's statements today are positive. The government's positive response to the Christian People's Party's initiative for a new shift in care for the elderly is a good example of which we can get more. In many other cases, the government has not seemed particularly interested in listening to the opposition’s input – yes, in some important matters, it seems that the government has not even taken any interest in listening in advance to its own party groups. The Christian People's Party will be an offensive but also constructive opposition party. We will contribute to wide-ranging solutions in the Storting on issues where it is important to ensure solutions through the changing political compositions of the National Assembly. Getting a sustainable pension system is, as the Prime Minister was in it, perhaps the area where it is most important to ensure such a broad solution. The Christian People's Party is a centre party and has from the outset chosen a different approach to political thinking, not on the basis of special social or economic interests, but on the basis of human view and values. We have committed ourselves to fighting for human dignity, radical nativity and for good management of resources. Christian democracy thus constitutes a third way in the centre of Norwegian policy – between socialism and liberalism. The Christian People's Party's view of society is that it must grow from below, not be controlled in detail from a central level. The good community can only be built by using the whole country. We need to see the opportunities in, and facilitate, local economic development. The view of the Christian People's Party on nature requires responsible and environmentally friendly management of resources. We must show courage at a time of abundance and not push the challenges upon our children and grandchildren. Many had long believed that SV would stand up for the environment in government. Unfortunately, we've seen a little bit of that. Instead of getting CO2 cleaning from day one, we've got power socialism from day one. And power-socialism with gas power is far worse than power-socialism with hydropower. The Christian People's Party's view of man implies that every human being is inviolable and of infinite value. That is why we are challenging the fight for international justice. That's why we challenge the fight against using medicine's innovations to sort out people with disease and disability. Poverty violates human dignity every day and keeps billions of people in links. Nothing is more important to the Christian People's Party than the fight for the poorest. Today, the Prime Minister has declared that the Christian People's Party can look forward to the budget in terms of what has been achieved in the area of aid. I hope the Prime Minister is right. I'll give him the opportunity to present the budget before I pass my sentence in that way. As late as December last year, State Council Djupedal said about the red-green majority government: "What we want we get to do." This state budget will be a decisive test of whether the will to help the most vulnerable in the world society is present in the red-green government. But there will also be a test of the will to help the poorest in Norway. The newspaper Our Country today has an overview of what the current government parties said about poverty in the previous ageing period, and writes: ‘Tomorrow she can’ – the finance minister – ‘abstain poverty’, for she has said that if ‘I had three to four billion, I would have used them to eliminate poverty among children in Norway’. I assume that the Minister of Finance has had more than three to four billion, and that we will see an offensive plan to eradicate poverty among children in Norway. It will have the support of the Christian People's Party. We want an escalation for the poor. We want an escalation in the care of drug users – which is an important part of the fight against poverty, following the pattern of the psychiatry plan. We want to make better use of the available capacity of private drug institutions and, above all, we want constructive cooperation across the parties in the United Kingdom in the fight against poverty. It is unworthy that in this rich country we should have pockets of poverty. And if we can't do anything about it together, it won't help if we stand here and boast of everything we've got.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e600	I listened carefully to the articles of the Højbräten. I think it was a good post, which had care and security in it. Traditionally, we have seen that the Christian People's Party has co-existed with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on a number of distributional issues. I also agree that the fight in the future must focus on care, education, health – the security of our society. Some have been delivered in these areas. I am thinking of both the reintroduction of holiday pay for the unemployed, housing support schemes, etc. My questions to the Højbrätten are: Will we now see the Christian People's Party as part of the cooperation between Right and Left in the Stortinget – as one block? How does the Høybråt look at the invitation from the Right-leader Erna Solberg? Will there be closer cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e607	It is right, as the representative of Nordtun says, that Christian democracy and social democracy have many common features, not least in terms of social justice, closeness and solidarity. This means that we often agree on some of these welfare issues. But what is the problem with the Workers' Party is that in very important questions – value questions for the Christian People's Party – such as the view of the family, expressed by the cash support, as the view of freedom of choice in school, expressed by the view of the free schools, and as the view of respect for human dignity, expressed by the Biotechnology Act and the questions it raises, is the Workers' Party on conflict courses with the Christian People's Party. When it comes to cooperation in the future, I want to say that you want to see a Christian People's Party that cooperates constructively in opposition with the other opposition parties. We do that on a case-by-case basis. And you'll see a Christian People's Party that is committed to finding solutions even with the majority parties in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e614	I agree with the previous Minister of Social Affairs – and thus the chief in charge of the policy of the previous government – that we are attacking the situation we have in relation to the poor and unfairness in Norway today. The previous Prime Minister said that we have done too little with this, while this government has the abolition of poverty as its goal, and it is great to hear that Dagfinn Højbrätten has intended to support it. But I'm just stunning a little bit, because the most important promise that the previous government made was formidable taxes: 23 billion dollars a year ended up finally, and you went to elections with a new 16 billion dollars in taxes as one of its important issues. Over these four years, we're going to spend at least $50 billion more on welfare than the previous government went to elections. Isn't it a policy that makes us better able to fight for a fairer distribution, against poverty, for more schools and better care for the elderly, which are all the important things that the Christian People's Party raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e621	Here were many numbers and some errors that I should not use my reply to correct. I just want to say this: it is absolutely right that we were not satisfied with the results of the fight against poverty last time – but we started! We made a plan! We implemented that plan, and it has given many important results for thousands of people. I don't think you should just put a line over it. But we're not there. The alarming thing is that the new government, which said it was going to abolish poverty – would abolish poverty and eventually have talked away from it too – has not yet promoted a new plan. It continues to govern the poverty plan of the previous government. We'll have to wait and see if there's a new policy. For the time being, we have seen little of it, but what I can assure you is that the Christian People's Party will be a vigil in the Great Britain for the poor, and we will be a cooperative partner for all offensive measures against poverty that come from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e634	The government has in its efforts to eliminate poverty a critical and awake supporter in the Christian People's Party. That is what I experience when I hear the posts of the representative Høybråten. And I guess I feel it actually so that the Christian People's Party in this work has more parallel in the government parties than in the other opposition parties. In the current year’s budget, the Government increased the poverty rate by 493 million. kr. In the revised national budget, we removed the excesses of physical therapy. In addition, we have increased the revenues of municipalities by NOK 3.8 billion. My question is: doesn't the Hojbrätt see this as a proper direction, and isn't it that the government here plays on the sidelines of the Christian People's Party in their ambitions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e641	There is no doubt that many of the measures mentioned by the representative Sundsbø are good in relation to the poor. But what is the main problem is that, despite strengthening the welfare of municipalities, despite the fact that we are granting more and more to the state welfare systems, there are some who are falling through. The safety network is not working. I think that an answer to that is to make sure that the thousands of people who are out of work and poor for that reason are included, and we have to make sure that we have welfare arrangements that are more accurate than the broad, general arrangements that characterize our system today. If the government comes with that kind of policy, we have something to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e646	During the previous ageing period, the representative contributed to the introduction of the Knowledge Lift through good government work. There was a great deal of agreement on the Storting about this. But many of our local politicians, from both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, felt that on the one hand they were talking about quality, while many municipalities had to cut their school budgets. Of the extra money that the municipality received last year, approx. $2 billion to the schools. It has helped in our county, Akershus, that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have been able to cooperate on increasing quality in school. My question to the representative Højbräten is whether he believes that the extra billions of schools have helped to improve the quality of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e653	I think definitely that more money to the municipalities, which leads to more money to the schools, helps to raise the quality of school. And there is no single example of the Christian People's Party regretting that there was more money for the municipalities in the current year's budget. On the contrary, we have praised the Government for that. But quality is much more than money. It's about the organization of the school. It's about the school's freedom to develop its local offerings. It is about the ability of teachers to do a good job, and about the possibility of supporting the teaching process, not least about supporting new, fresh teachers, who should be given a mentoring system. And it's about how, in addition to the quality promise, we can also get a valuelift that focuses on the role of the school – the school should be a place where it should be good to be, a place to thrive, as well as the very central role of the core: the school as a place to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e658	Interestingly, the Christian People's Party now sees it as its most important tasks to take better care of the elderly and the younger. It signals the Christian People's Party after four years in government, which they can add up to NOK 23 billion in tax relief and with the swallowing of the municipalities – the municipalities, which are so central both when it comes to care for the elderly and when it is a good everyday life for the youngest. It's the same thing when it's about poverty. The Christian People's Party will now intensify its efforts. We in the Center Party think this is very positive, but we have to interpret it so that the Christian People's Party in important areas separates from what they were in the previous government, and instead wants closer cooperation with today's government, because they see that it's where the good solutions lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e665	This is about games and not about things. It is not that we do not accept the policy we have pursued in the previous period. Local authorities were provided with significant increases in resources. A force was taken against poverty. We put up a planned fight against poverty in Norway. But it's not like you've done the job with it. A very important part of the job that was done in the last period was creating order in the Norwegian economy and ensuring the growth we are now seeing. Prime Minister Stoltenberg can stand here and boast that we have record low unemployment, precisely because we facilitated growth in the economy. The economic basis on which the red-green government currently operates is created by the policy pursued in the previous period. That's the way it is, and I think we're going to be liberal enough to admit each other. I look forward to cooperating with both the opposition parties here on the Stortinget and with the Government, when the Government does sensible things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e672	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e676	A throne debate gives the opportunity to raise your eyes a little bit and look at the big lines of politics. I would like to take the opportunity to point out some ideological points and some of the main challenges ahead from my and the Left's point of view. The left is the Social Liberal Party of the Storting. That means that we have strong faith in man's freedom, creativity and sense of responsibility. It also means that we – as a Danish chronicler expressed last week – have the ideology that contaminates the individual, market and state in a more bearable way than the other ideologies. What we can call the infrastructure of freedom, also called the liberal system, has four pillars: democracy, the rule of law, the market economy and independent civil society. It's by ensuring the independence and integrity of each of these pillars, and thus the best interaction between them, that we get a decentralised, open, dynamic and diverse society with a high degree of freedom and human growth. The problem with a lot of other thinking, not least the socialist, is that you don't understand and much less respect this system and its demands – and that's what's important – for the balance between these arrows. Therefore, the independence of civil society can be threatened by excessive government governance. In last year's government statement, the Prime Minister called civil society a complement to the public. So this balance is lacking. Therefore, this balance of power between the elected and the corporate system is shifted through the lack of a principleal understanding of division of labour and distance between party, state and trade union movement. Therefore, the dynamics of the market economy are threatened by excessive — and erroneous — belief in the country’s ability to manage its business. This is why socialist systems cannot solve poverty problems either — believing that there is only more money in the state budget. I think some of the basic ideological problem for the sitting government is right here. The government has no clear ideology, but is torn in different directions, of everything from what I would call modern, far on the way liberal, social democrats, by deep conservative horns on the working party wall, by dogmatic socialists and by obscene conservative centrists. In sum, this is a obsolete ideological butter that will not lead Norway forward. The Prime Minister and the Government have entered a corner with a maximum rhetoric about ‘new course’ and a completely different policy, while in reality it is not doing anything particularly new at all. And while impatience is increasing among the conservative outer left side, which actually wants a completely different society – perhaps all the way back to the 1970s. The ‘third road’ was a good attempt by European social democrats to adapt old ideas to a new era, I would say in a social liberal direction. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were among those who saw both the necessity and reason of this change of course. But they can no longer say that, unfortunately, because now the ‘third way’ is parked by fired party leaders – and I am not thinking about the president! Modern social democracy has stopped in its progressive development and has become a left-wing conservative party for public employees – as the recently deceased and deeply respected Truls Frogner so aptly said about the Workers' Party. The government reiterates the fact that its main task is more common, but only the public sector is in place as this community – and this is always promoted at the expense of individual freedom. This applies in the field of education policy, to the freedom of choice of parents to care for their own children, to the lack of trust in public sector employees and in local democracy, and not least to industrial policy. The left is also for more community. It does not conflict with more freedom. However, this does not mean that public bureaucracy should grow or that it should be done as much as possible by those who receive their pay from a public office. Community is equally voluntary sector, extended family concept, friends and social hit-point. Of course, it is also about the public sector, but it is not about whether or not the garbage dumping or household washing is carried out by a municipal employee. It is the ideological element of the Government that makes it paralysed in the design of new policies. I guess we've never had a year with so few things for Stortinget, so little new policy, so few visions and so many postponements. Norway is a happy quiet country. We have opportunities for most other countries to dream of. Now it is essential to use this situation to take some important steps for the future. This is particularly the case in environmental policy, and it is important to ensure the welfare of the future by focusing on education, research and entrepreneurship. Because it is the new knowledge-based business that forms the basis for future freedom and well-being. That is why we need an active enterprise policy that understands the dynamics of the globalised economy, and that knows what is required of us for flexibility, innovation and entrepreneurial culture – a policy that knows how a strong state needs to put a framework for a well-functioning market economy, which knows what is required of new giving throughout the education system and research, and which sees the enormous potential of a forward-looking environmental policy. Yesterday, the so-called Lower Emissions Committee presented its recommendations to the Government. The overall solution of the sample consists of a total of 15 different measures, including: related to the development of climate-friendly technologies, the use of environmentally friendly cars and fuels, the use of alternative sources of heating and the development of new renewable energy, to mention something. The committee's recommendations are like reading a copy of the program on the left. If the Government follows up the recommendations of the sample, I can promise the whole-hearted support of the Left, but the experience so far is that the Government is at best notable in environmental policy. We saw that in the case of green certificates, and we've seen it through a series of games this summer related to the lack of willingness to clean up CO2. Yesterday’s situation shows that it is possible to reduce climate emissions by two thirds by 2050 and without excessive costs. What if we turn around a little bit on the sample conclusion? Achieving an ambitious climate target by 2050 can be lucrative for Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian society all the way, from now on to the goal. The possibility is there, if we dare and will. Does the Government want to do that? The government's speech was virtually out of the question of good news for research, for business and for those who work with the idea of investing in Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. The gaps in the budget, which will be presented tomorrow, are not particularly good for businesses and jobs either. The Prime Minister has today confirmed that the most crucial task for a government and for a finance minister, namely to balance the budget, is ‘outsourced’ to the social partners until further notice. Let me say that for the Left, it is essential that we have to get a commitment to research. I could spend a lot of time in these short minutes talking about our policies and our willingness to invest in small businesses and a research-based new business, which we need to a large extent to replace traditional industry and value creation in this country. We will come back to that on later occasions from this pulpit. I want to say that Grand President Thorbjørn Jagland was in for something very important when, two days ago, he encouraged the Stortinget to become a ‘speaker’ for those who are not well organized and belong to groups who can ‘invoice their demands on the state budget’, as the President put it in a sparkling way. Let me say that we like to take that challenge, with the tradition we have of being a party independent of special interests. We have a long social tradition of using our elected places for the benefit of those who need it the most, those who have little or no voice. Taking the ombudsman role in politics is one of the most important roles of politicians. We're going to get even clearer about this in the future. The idea of civic pay, or guaranteed minimum income, has so far its only speaker in the Left, but we're going to show that this is a thought that has its own future. Then we'll see, then, when tomorrow's government budget is presented, if we see any of this, that those who have no voice, those who are not well organized, have escaped well into the government offices. I fear that it is the well-established partners in trade union movements and peasants who have been sitting in the waiting room and taken the whole place there. We'll see what kind of tax havens, among other things. which is provided in a budget intended to increase taxes. It's a bad year for the local elections, and I think it's time to travel a little bit of the municipal minister's important business since she's in the Stortinget – because I share these views with the municipal minister. A vital local democracy is important, and it has always been a heart issue for the Left. We want a variety of different solutions in different municipalities and districts, not a administrative reform that makes municipalities become state branches, or that municipal tasks are transferred to regions of unknown size. The left was founded in the fight against the official state. Much indicates that this battle must be renewed. In municipalities, counties, health regions and state agencies, we have had a trend towards expert boards and administrative powers that have brought peoples dangerously under an illusion. This must be the political change of words for a year when we are going to meet for local democratic elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e728	The representative of Sponheim has clearly one electoral language: Attack is the best defense. He's hammering loose on the government, and usually it's a big deal that's being used. Today he took a slightly smaller ride into his hands. The criticism of the Government is usually ramsalt: the government is weak, and the situation is chaotic, asserts the left leader – it doesn't get anything. I'll take one illustration. Under the previous government, which had Sponheim as an important pillar, there is no shortage of call from local politicians – nor left-wing people. They were fed food financially. Everything is not paradise no, but the nursing woman in Oslo, in Hordaland and in Troms gets better care than last year. The quality of care for the elderly is strengthened. More money for well-being brings great results. I would like to ask the representative Sponheim: are local politicians wrong when they claim that the welfare of the elderly has improved after the government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e740	Yeah, a simple answer to the last one should probably wait until tomorrow by giving. Then we get the first full government budget. I want to say, since the government parties are busy talking about the history of the last four years, that the first two years of the Bondevik II government were very demanding. Then we were going to raise rising unemployment and rising interest rates from the Stoltenberg I government. We did. It was also tough for the municipalities, as for everyone else. When important parts of the job were done, there was also a significant increase in municipal income over the other two years. That's the truth. I'm glad the government has seen fit to continue a growth. Then we'll see tomorrow if we're back to Bondevik II level, or if we can maintain this one-time duke that the government did after the Soria Moria Russian last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e747	The representative, Sponheim, began his speech by saying that the debate on the throne should address the broad lines of policy. One of the interesting big lines of Norwegian policy that we can see in the future is the collection on the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, where we see that the Right-wing leader and the leader of the Advance Party are trying to get together. The representative Sponheim has many and big words when he characterizes the other parties. It would also be interesting to get clear, big words from Sponheim about how the Left is dealing with the new collection on the right-hand side of Norwegian politics. Can the Left imagine being part of a coalition with the Right, and the Advance Party, for example, in a future government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e754	Let me say that I do not see the same new collection on the right-hand side of Norwegian policy that Ryan would like to scare with. I have seen that there has been an emerging debate after the elections in Sweden. I'm a little surprised, because the election in Sweden, which then gave a civil majority government, did not take up the debate we now have after a year with a majority government with several parties in Norway – I don't think it's the greatest experiment we've ever done in Norwegian politics so far. The second is that one has to take what is the reality in Sweden, that those who have a modernised centre party that is a clearly non-socialist centre party. In Sweden it is completely different in policy and it cannot be transferred to Norwegian conditions. What I can promise is that we in the Left are going to use this period to bring our own policies forward. We're going to be a bigger party, because that's a prerequisite for changing government in 2009. We've shown in the past that we can cooperate, but we don't want to cooperate with any government so wide that it won't be a clear and clear line for the Left's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e761	The leader of the left markets himself in many big and often brutal words, as well as in the characteristics of the throne speech: “Better than it is today, it can’t be.” It’s strong, and it’s obvious, but it’s clear that people out there don’t understand much what the left really wants. For what has the Left shown a position in relation to school and care for the elderly, in relation to communications and in relation to business policy? We have now been told that one will come back to business policy. A short time ago, the Sponheim Council responsible for agriculture — or the use of land — and the litmus test could be: What about the big words versus action? What about forestry as a long-term industry? How was the forest renewal? Will the representative Sponheim use the same words about his efforts as the Minister of Forestry when he now sees the outcome of what he was given as a Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e768	Let me stress that the quote that the representative here uses, that much worse can't be done, was with regard to the government's life in the first year. A chaotic state, most would say. It's probably just to read out the polls that you've gotten the biggest right turn of Norwegian politics ever, and I think it's as a result of a majority government that's shown a pretty chaotic picture in governing the country. In this way, it is my wish that the Government should get a little better, because I think that policy is served, and not least that the opposition can be allowed to take over the opposition role in politics. I think we deserve that, too. I am proud of four years when it was worked for renewal in agriculture, necessary renewal to meet new times. I could almost turn it around and say that the central party’s – and not least Lundtigen’s – land-use policy, of agricultural land, would, in my opinion, be an unusually hard hit when a new WTO agreement comes in place and the new reality of agriculture is there. We started that conversion, and I hope it doesn't stop too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e775	The President recalls the speaking time: up to 1 minute in a cord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e778	The representative Sponheim speaks as if he were representing a large, collective opposition, and he always wants to present the government as a government with a lot of turmoil and root. Unlike the previous government, the red-greens have taken on major controversial issues in which the opposition cracks in all directions – and in its time of government, the issues remained silent. For further information, please refer to the energy situation, the Northern Region management plan, the pension reform. Does the representative Sponheim find it strange that there is a public debate in difficult matters before the Government draws its conclusion? The representative Sponheim is constantly talking about more democracy. Does the representative of the Government consider that the debate on difficult matters should be brought to an end before it concludes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e788	That's what I think was a strange line to a Left-leader with Left-Tradition in this room. If, over time, someone has been in favour of public debates, seeing the need to get matters balanced in public space before making decisions, it is definitely the left. I believe that these violent attacks on the properties of continuous and homogeneous minority governments, with which we have quite a lot of experience, are completely unreasonable, because they have just contributed to a kind of processing that I have missed during this year. When today’s government finally filters to a conclusion, it is so scarce and so little to go on that there is no room for the right and good balances – not least in meeting its own big crowds. That's what I think is important to focus attention on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e795	The representative Sponheim is a good guy – and he's a good guy to characterize the lives of others. At the same time, he himself is the embodiment of the concept of 'empty barrels rumbling the most'. If we look at what left got into the environment -- which is what you're talking about -- during the period they put in government, it's a single long story. During this period we will be able to put forward a system for the conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction, which the Left did not succeed in the time they put in government. We're going to get a bet on CO2 cleaning, a bet that Lars Sponheim didn't get in the period he put in government. We're going to get to a railway bet, a bet Lars Sponheim couldn't get into the period he put in government. In fact, most of the points that came from the Low Emissions Committee are already caught up in the Soria Moria statement, while they were never caught up in the Sem statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e805	At Heikki Holmås dry! First, I would like to say – if we are going to use the debate to discuss Bondevik II: if there was something that was quite agreed on, then there was an environmental policy that was good. We had environmental protection ministers who got a lot of praise because they did a lot, not least in the field of protection, which has always been a classic good thing for the Left and – I thought – SV. Now we find that in a few months SV has gone from being against all types of gas power plants to barely accepting gas power plants with CO2 cleaning to now opening up gas power plants without CO2 cleaning – right with a desire for parallelity in the development of technology, but it is already there. What everybody's in the head for is the economy of this, that's what's the whole challenge. So those who invest must be pressured into it. It's slippery. I read in the newspapers that there is a break in protection, and that there are very few protection proposals coming from this government. And I remember there was a record collective effort under the previous government. These are positions Left and SV have previously split. Then we'll see tomorrow if we still share them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e820	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e823	‘The ability to create and share has made Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. In Norway, we have opportunities for value creation and fair distribution that many people envy. The government will use these opportunities here at home to secure jobs for everyone, have a well-being that is fairly distributed, and that prevents exclusion and poverty. Internationally, we will use our opportunities to strengthen our work against poverty and for a more peaceful world. In the field by field, the Government has shown this through practical policies. We said in the election campaign that we should stop the Bondevik government's proposals for increased liberalisation and the brutalisation of the labour market. One of the very first things the government did was to stop the weakening of the work environment law. This is very important for a positive development of Norwegian working life, a development that prevents exclusion. We said in the election campaign that we should fight unemployment. So let's do that. The basis is a responsible economic policy that increases value creation and employment. The unemployment rate is now lower than in many years. We promised the voters that we would stop the privatisation of school and care. So let's do that. We are betting on Community solutions, not privatisation. We also said in the election campaign that we should stop the unsocial fiscal policy of citizens. So let's do that. We're betting on well-being over tax relief for those who have a lot from before. We wanted to reverse the development and make sure that the big money goes to the big and important tasks. That's what this government has done, and it's going to keep going. Through the increased allocations of DKK 5.7 billion to municipalities this year, welfare and care services around the country are strongly strengthened: The municipalities can expand the care of the elderly.There is more to be done in the school.The water is filled in swimming pools that have been empty. I think it is bold of the Right in the debate today to try to make it so that this is almost a result of increased tax revenue. The census reports that the goal of full child-care coverage is within reach in 2007. This is very joyful. The state budget will be here tomorrow. There will be a clear red-green budget with clear and strong priorities of well-being, community and justice, as the census warned. We will continue to invest in care for the elderly, schools, kindergartens, culture and culture, and we will focus on international solidarity. Without in any way prejudicing the presentation of the State budget, it is a fact that in 2007 we will have a historically high level of aid allocation. That means that new steps are being taken to achieve the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. We've got a new government with an ideological basis and other values than the government that had to leave the last harvest. Now the government is doing well to reverse the trend. Better well-being is ensured through a strong community. It's not that easy to see what's the opposition's option. Nor in this debate has it become clear in any way. The right-wing leader, Erna Solberg, who in government was responsible for starving the municipalities, has now become too much for welfare and school. The right, which would brutalize working life by tightening up the working environment law, and which took money from the unemployed, is now concerned about those who are being outcast. And right, who thought that we were overreacting in the transport sector when we claimed that the national transport plan as the previous government put it out was too bad, now stands up and demands more money for asphalt! Is this credible? The party of progress is not able to see any difference after the government change. One crucial difference is that the Progress Party no longer has its hands on the steering wheel. And what kind of hand was that? Well, it was the hand that would weaken the work environment law, that wanted more privatisation, and that would distribute billions of dollars in tax relief to those who didn't even need it. The Soria Moria declaration is being implemented step by step. The bourgeois option must be said to be in blue. A possible partnership between the Right and the Advance Party is announced, but still it is without any kind of blessing from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e874	I record that the representative Solberg does not have a word about transportation in his post. Similarly, the Prime Minister was almost absent from the promise to come from this government in the field of transport, and in particular the road. My challenge to Solberg's representative is on what's in the papers today. I do not demand that Solberg lick anything more from the State budget, but it is referred to in the Soria Moria statement and it is said in the newspapers today that this government will follow up the settlement in the NTP. As it appears in the newspapers today, and as the leaks also indicate, the investment coming in 2007 will be on the road maintenance side. However, in the NTP agreement, the Labour Party writes that all of these 10 billions – and the agreement is quite clear on that – of the entire bet that comes there will go to investment on the road. My question to Solberg's representative is: are these 10 billions now being used in the conciliation, for road maintenance and for pushing ahead with the design of new investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e881	The representative started by saying that he does not expect budgetary leakages, while asking for specific details about the state budget arrangement. That, of course, is not possible for me to give. It'll be tomorrow. But what I can assure the representative Sandberg about is that the red-green government is concerned about strengthening transportation. It means an infinite amount to the development of this country, not least our business life, and it means a lot to the development of District Norway. It's going to be a budget with a clear drive, in line with what's been our promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e886	I shall confine myself to asking whether the budgetary leakage that the Prime Minister himself has suffered, namely the 2.5 billion who are missing in budget coverage as a result of the fact that a sick pay proposal printed in the budget will not be promoted, but will be discussed with the parties. I'm not going to go into the substance of it, but the Prime Minister said when he presented this in his speech here today, that this was nothing new. I would then like to ask the representative, Mr Solberg, who has a long experience of budgetary work in the UK, whether she can remember that a similar budget has been advanced in the past, with a lack of coverage of 2.5 billion, which will then be discussed with the social partners and with the central governments of the government parties, as I understand it. Such a procedure is completely new to me, but if Solberg's representative remembers better than me, I'll be very grateful to be reminded of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e891	I understand that it is new and unknown to the representative Foss, but I remember very well at least that when the government in which he was a finance minister proposed changes to the health pay scheme, there was at least no discussion with anyone. It came as a shock on all the day the budget was presented. What I can assure you is that the budget presented tomorrow is an ageing budget. It's a budget with an accounting going up. What the government has said, and as the Prime Minister has also said today, is to discuss with the parties whether it is possible to come up with other alternative proposals that give the same result. That means that the budget is up-to-date when it is presented tomorrow, and it will also be when it is adopted in the Grand Duchy in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e898	The representative, Solberg, was in his contribution to the need for full childcare. The Christian People's Party is very happy that one goes on with the work we started to get full child care coverage. But what is alarming is that family policy was absent from the throne. The government has no family minister. Fortunately, we have a family committee at Stortinget. The Christian People's Party is dedicated to facilitating that parents can give their children a good upbringing. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child stresses that family members should be given the necessary protection and assistance so that they can fully assume their responsibilities in society. The state can never replace its family role in society. My question to Solberg's representative is: What is the view of the Labour Party and what action will the Labour Party take on the role of the family, and will the Labour Party in any way focus on its family situation and needs? Is there a need for an offensive policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e908	It must be based on a great misunderstanding if it is such that the representatives of the Christian People's Party believe and realize that tomorrow comes a government budget that does not matter to families, in the same way as the budget that was presented for the current year, and also the addition that came from the new government, of course, had great significance for Norwegian families. And it's not that kindergartens don't matter, that they're almost a trifle, a parentheses, that don't matter to families. One of the biggest problems young families today experience is not getting kindergarten when they need it. I know many such families. I am therefore very pleased that the new government has been given full speed in kindergarten development, and that we are now actually aiming to achieve the goal of full child care coverage. I think that is an incredibly important message for Norwegian families. Only then do we talk about freedom of choice – if it is such that one has the choice that one has a kindergarten or not. Unfortunately, that is not the case for everyone today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e913	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e916	At the 2005 elections, the voters said they wanted a new course. The main message for the voters, I think, was that they wanted a course where we're betting on the common good, and where we're aiming to further develop the welfare community. So the question is, does the government deliver in relation to the order from the voters? On that question I will give the following answer: Yes, we deliver; we actually deliver every day, both in terms of size and in terms of small. I can't ram all the important areas where we deliver, but let me mention three. Firstly, we have made sure to get back an optimism in Kommune-Norway, where the municipalities feel that they have a room for action to drive and develop their part of Norway. It is an optimism about addressing new problems, an optimism about solving important welfare tasks in municipalities. Secondly, we have probably now done the most important thing to reverse the course that the Bondevik government offered, namely to stop the privatisation of Norwegian school. I think maybe the most important thing we've done in Norway to balance the differences between people is that we've had a single school. The course that Kristin Clemet went to was about to get completely out of bed, where we had actually moved far, far back to the past if that government had been allowed to continue. The fact that our Minister of Knowledge and the Government reversed this is probably the most important symbolism that we actually want to take care of the common good, we want everyone to have equal opportunities, no matter what background they have. The third thing I want to mention is the kindergarten development, which we've been talking about for many years, is that we're going to get to full kindergarten coverage. So that's what we're about to do. We have once again received a majority government, and there are several – the President, the Prime Minister and others – who talk about the challenges of having a majority government. I agree that having a majority government is a major challenge, and I believe that this government is taking the Storting seriously. And that's important. It's important for two reasons. Firstly, it is important for democratic reasons, because people are democratically elected through good processes around the country and have come to Norway's main democratic arena, the Stortinget. That is why it is important to take the Storting seriously. But it is also important because there is considerable competence in the Storting. Here are politicians who for many years know their part of the country, and who can help you get the best solutions, by making their contributions to the Government when you promote things for the Storting. Therefore, serious and good treatment is extremely important in order for a case to be presented to obtain the best possible result. So for democratic, but also for professional reasons, it's important that the Storting should be taken seriously, as the Government adds up to. Since I started as a parliamentary leader, there has been a lot of talk about this with a mouthpiece. I am surprised at how focused both the press and the opposition have been on putting the mouthpiece on some representatives. Norway's magnification and Norwegian democracy tolerate the fact that some representatives, including from the government parties, have a nuanced view on some issues. It doesn't have to be that we're so afraid of an open debate that we actually shut it in the meeting rooms and don't dare raise questions that we think it's important to get up, sail if there's any nuances in the different people who travel them. If we look back at history also in this room, we see that representatives of e.g. Away-government, Left-representatives, in fact from the pulpit of the Storting, spoke against his own government. And not enough: they voted against their own government. And so it is today that when individual representatives from the government parties have a nuanced view of a matter and will have it debated, it will be, among other things. by the representative Sponheim said it is a disaster – that it is a disaster. If, as an old Norwegian teacher, I was going back to my students one day, I had to say that the word ‘catastrophe’ has changed in Norway. We must redefine the word. What they used to call disaster, that means, but Sponheim has changed the word to something else. Time is running out of me. I wanted to get into the Progress Party. I'll take that at a later date, in a three-minute post. In conclusion, however, I have to say that we in SV are well-off in government. We feel that we get too much of our policies every day. We deliver in relation to the Soria Moria statement. We are very well on the way to implementing large parts of what we promised when we joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e939	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e942	It's always a pleasure to listen to Ryan's representative. But my challenge to Ryan is primarily about his thoughts about how Norwegian society works at all when we have the private initiative. In spite of the fact that we have a red-green government, at least it is still so that the private initiative operates in many areas. Today we have heard from both the representative of Solberg and the Prime Minister that the previous government supported the attack by the Progress Party on the unemployed. My question to Ryan is: What is it – besides that this government has implemented the holiday pay scheme for the unemployed – the government has done with regard to the steps taken by the previous government and the Progress Party in relation to the unemployed? Among other things, what we got criticism for that time was that we reduced the long-term period for the unemployed from three to two years. There are also other grips that this government has let stand firm. What else has this government done to improve the situation of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e949	I think the most important thing that both the previous government and this government are doing in relation to the unemployed is what is called the NAV reform. There, a good job was done by the previous government that we are continuing. I myself have had the pleasure of running a work office for some years, and I saw the need for unemployed people not to become a caste between social security, social security and employment offices. That we are now able to gather all of these so that there is one door that unemployed people meet when they come up with their challenges of getting a job and receiving different benefits that they have the right to, I think is the most important step in relation to the unemployed. It started with the previous government. It was very good, and we actually intend to implement it so that it will work well for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e958	SV had school as the principal in the election campaign, the front of party leader Kristin Halvorsen and Vice President Øystein Djupedal. On the basis of this, it has been interesting, not to say remarkably, to experience a Minister of Knowledge from SV, Øystein Djupedal, who has distinguished himself either by cancelling his own school vows or by failing to promote his own party's policies. Last week, we saw that the Workers' Party announced an alarming turnaround in its school policy towards the right, which must also be seen as an expression of distrust of the SV's school policy. It happens less than one year after the majority government has seen the light of day. Does the SV and the representative Ryan believe that it is acceptable that the Workers' Party pursues an active opposition policy against one of its government partners? Can the representative Ryan tell us when big business and school can expect a clarification on what kind of school policy the majority government is going to conduct? And can we, perhaps, after the stark criticism of SV from Slagstad and Oftedal Telhaug, central school people, last week, hope for a breakthrough for the knowledge school in SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e967	I think we are doing well to implement the school policy that we have promised. The main thing the Minister of Knowledge did was to stop the serious situation where one was privatising large parts of Norwegian school. It was a resolute act that was absolutely necessary, and as we in SV were very pleased that the Government decided. The representative of Aspaker will see that there will be things in the budget that will help satisfy new parts of what we promised in Norwegian school policy. We're going to be in government for four years. I think the Minister of Knowledge and the Government are doing well to implement what we have promised in Soria Moria. I am not at all concerned that the school policy outlined there will not be followed up over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e974	The period during which the government ruled Stoltenberg I is seen as an environmental-policy time of darkness, especially because of the many gas power concessions that were given without the requirement for purification. Fortunately, we saw afterwards that the government turned in the environmental direction. We have had the same expectation for this government, especially because of SV. Yesterday, the Minister of Oil and Energy gave a signal that it could be appropriate to subsidize the construction of gas power plants on Forests, even without CO2 cleaning. My question to SV's parliamentary leader is therefore: Will SV – which was first against all gas power plants, even with purification, which then became for gas power plants, but with purification from day one and which now also celebrates this last requirement – be willing to pay over the Norwegian State budget for CO2 emissions in Forest, which will never come without any state subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e987	First of all, I would like to say that it is very nice to have Knut Arild Hareide in Stortinget. I think that's great, I understand that's the first time he's met. So to the questions: I can promise the representative Hareide that SV has raised the environmental tab high in government. One of the most important things for us in government is to promote our environmental policy. Over to it with gas power plants: It is absolutely right that there is a matter for discussion in the Government. As the Prime Minister stated in his speech, we have a challenge as we have a power crisis such as this. because the former government has not followed up either with regard to line networks or with regard to expansion. We have had a very difficult situation, both in central Norway and elsewhere. It is a matter for the Government, which assesses, on the one hand, how to cope with the demanding power situation – a lack of power – while at the same time preserving the environment. It's a matter that lies with the Government for the time being, and I can't comment on the details, because I don't know the outcome of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e996	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1000	It's an honor to use this pulpit. Only 188 Norwegians have the opportunity to do it online – 188 out of a total of 4.6 million people who live in Norway. The policy's reputation, the quality of political decisions, depends on how we work, how we behave. This is a big responsibility. Olav H. Hauge wrote about the dream that we should all "slip into a wake we haven't known about for an hour in the morning". One such wave we rejoiced into when Phillips Petroleum before Christmas in 1969 concluded that the Ekofisk field was impetuous. Later, oil Norway has become increasingly an unknown wave: we have few, if any, examples on land that has so rapidly and so extensively built up a national financial asset represented by the State pension fund today. It is the task of the Stortinge to debate and adopt the policy that will apply to the management of this wealth, to outsmart the course of the unknown wave. This is not easy. As the same Hauge wrote: ‘No one has left the way you should go, into the unknown, into the blue.’ This is probably only partially correct. In Alaska, rules for the management of the petroleum industry are constitutionally certain and legitimized through a referendum. With us, it's equally full about much larger values, and not least about a wealth growth that can have an unexpected impact on our society. One of the most important challenges for the Storting is to get up and down this road. We must – with an open mind and with deep will for advice – constantly ensure both democratic, fair and long-term management of this resource gift. This pulpit has not always been confined to people and women and members of the King's council. On a rare occasion, the doors have been opened to others, such as in 1948, when Winston Churchill spoke for a mass mass. In these days it is 100 years since Churchill spoke in Glasgow and measured a broad canvas with political action against social inequality and injustice. Politics, called Churchill, had to be more intense, more honest about the sick, old and not least about the children. The 1906 views are part of the Soria Moria Declaration – not as echoes, but as a lighthouse to guide by: ‘Our goal is to give all people throughout the country the opportunity to develop their abilities and to live good and meaningful lives.’ The center party thinks this has to be especially true of the children. Poverty, intoxication, social exclusion, challenging family relationships and the lack of public promises for the Community’s tasks – the biggest societal problems hit the lowest. 1.2 million people in this country are inactive and innocent. They are without the right to vote. They have been particularly commended for their election control and political choices. Against this minority, the future itself, we have a particular moral and political responsibility. The red-green government takes this responsibility very seriously. The development of kindergartens and common-sole bets is a hallmark in this way. Local authorities are given a boost in economic armaments: money for local welfare, measures to combat poverty, cultural and health services. This red-green will for action also opens up other rooms: Families get better time for each other and safer lives. Local communities get better growing conditions and more smiles. This also increases the chances of people taking responsibility for one another, for civil society to flourish and play along with the will of politics. The central party thinks this government stands out with that force and the force with which the policy is put into practice. We did not win the election with the promise of revolution, but with the promise to force the community. We're going to keep our share of this electoral contract. 188 people can use this pulpit. And then there are exceptions like Mandela and Churchill. The number is small when everything comes to it. The Nordics are few in number in the world. We still have a voice asking for cross-border, not least because of economic conditions and sizes: in absolute terms, our gross domestic product is the largest in the world. Many of this wealth is morally random and boils down to black gold. So we have a duty to share. We have to help others who are less fortunate. We will continue to support the UN and make it more effective and effective. We've all come a long time. Before New Year's Eve in 2007, we've come a lot further after all the sunmarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1037	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1040	The representative of the Melting Party of Kleppa is talking about Soria Moria, which is supposed to be a flashy smell. The situation along the coast of Norway, especially in my home country, is that light bulbs have been extinguished due to a lack of electricity. We have a deficit on it now, and the Senter Party has, in my opinion, been one of the drivers that we are in today's situation, because of resistance to building new power through gas power stations, which is one of the major resources, which also the representative Meltveit Kleppa talked about in her post when she quoted Olav H. Hauge. My question is: is the time now for the Center Party too to realize that it makes sense to use the wealth that lies in the North Sea to light up again in Building Norway and Coast Norway, so that we can use the resource that this is? I can also quote: ‘Every day is a rare gift, a shining opportunity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1050	There should be no doubt that the Centre Party has a strong commitment to clean up the energy situation that is an inheritance from the previous government, where a long-closed eye for the fact that there was a need for significant more energy, not least in Middle Norway. Nor should there be any doubt that, unlike the Progress Party, the Central Party believes that we should take international agreements seriously. We have a responsibility both for the environment and for creating new energy. In these days, the government is working to secure more power and to secure resources and incentives for new and alternative energy. We also want gas power, but with purification.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1055	The representative of Melting Party Kleppa mentioned in the article’s growing conditions in local communities. There is something for which the Right is burning very strongly, and I am pleased that the representative took it up. But then it's hard to get across from word to action. Let's take the primary industries, which the Center Party says they're very busy with. We have several farmers and farmers around the city of Bygde-Noreg who will try to organise operations in a new way, with a view to getting more leisure time, more family-friendly work and a better economy. This is denied by strict rules and limits. We have also been given a policy under the fisheries side, with a stop to structuring and with a policy-specific transfer of quotas from profitable to less profitable businesses. Is this what the representative Meltveit Kleppa thinks is a good policy to promote growth in local communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1060	It must be allowed to be a little wonder that the Right with such freeness of speech owes the Centre for Missing Commitment to Growth Conditions in the community. Right in government for four years, crush the municipalities and give them difficult conditions. They kept down the trajectories and didn't exactly lead an agricultural policy that gave some particular optimism and hope for the future in Bygde-Noreg. The representative, Løvik, presents two important challenges, both for agriculture and fisheries. It is to find the right balance between those who drive large and those who drive small, and to ensure that the individual is able and thus also to build in relation to larger operations. There the government has a keen eye on the relationship between co-operation and single use. The government is also busy securing a good structure in the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1067	I want to commend the representative Meltveit Kleppa for being one of those who have raised some visions in this room today. The smallest are most important, she said. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential to fight for an freedom of choice that makes the small children get good conditions, facilitate conditions so that their parents get more time and get organized so that they get it up. We've been with the Center Party about that in a lot of things. Therefore, it was probably a bit surprising that the Central Party's educational spokespersons have now expressed a positive opinion on the Workers' Party's proposal that all 5-year-olds now have free preschools, which will help push many children into preschool too early. For this is about who is responsible for the children? And can children be allowed to be children until they are five years old? My question to the representative is: Is the Central Party comfortable with this socialist influence that these new comrades now have on them, and where families are forced into special situations instead of giving them freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1076	The Labour Party has provided a school-political platform. There are, of course, many examples of policies being developed in the three parties that are united in government. When it comes to school policy, I have to say that the Central Party is primarily concerned with realizing the Soria Moria Declaration. There's a piece left, for example. in relation to learning density and the fact that the individual is seen and followed up. We don't have any commitment to securing foregleams for five-year-olds. We thought it was more important to engage to improve the situation in the school that is, and for a municipal economy where we otherwise follow up with good leisure activities and what it might be, to secure young people of different ages. But we have a lot of understanding and a lot of people that we're going to work with our respective platforms even if we're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1085	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1088	One of the reasons why the debate on the throne was moved to before the presentation of the budget was that you could spend a little time discussing the larger, long lines and not all of the individual issues. And that's why, because for the first time in 20 years, we have a majority government in Norway. We have changed the political picture by the parties taking responsibility and ruling the country together and making up a majority in the main hall. It has many advantages. It provides greater long-termity and predictability, more stable control, less play and more action. But at the same time, there are some challenges with a majority government, not only that the government parties initially have different positions and have to discuss themselves until consensus. The requirement to have both a major political debate, while at the same time the government parties must always agree on everything, is a space that one must – I think – be in the Left Party to do. That, of course, is incompatible. In fact, we want open debate. But what is a challenge is how, at the same time as you have a majority government and an established majority, you can also get a good dialogue with the opposition parties and wide-ranging solutions where possible. The government has to listen more to the opposition, it's sometimes said. We're busy with that. We're more than happy to accept good input. The problems are that the footage from Stortinget very often cracks in every direction. I notice it very well in my area. The government is now implementing a large cultural promise. All opposition parties voted against the 1 pst target. by the state budget for culture in 2014, but now it is breaking in all directions. The left wants to implement it already in 2009. The Progress Party – we know – is proposing a major cut in the cultural budget year after year. What advice do the opposition parties think we should listen to? We want, for example: to invest in the library sector. There, I think we have support from part of the opposition parties. The party of progress has been fighting for years for people to pay to borrow books from the libraries. We want a law of ownership in the media sector that guarantees diversity. Therefore, we have proposed that the national ownership limit should be one third of the total expenditure. There we received support from the Christian People's Party, which meant something else when they were in government, while the Advance Party and the Right far on the way believe that the entire ownership law is superfluous. Who are we gonna listen to? We want a strong NRK. Once again, the opposition parties crack. We want a big digital TV revolution with the establishment of a company to expand it. Once again, the advice is broken from the opposition. That's the way it is in areas by area. We like to listen to advice and input, but there's not one advice coming from these opposition parties. There are very often very different advice from the different parties, and not just in the field of culture. Exactly the same applies to refugee policy, aid policy, gas power, agricultural policy, European policy, privatisation, school policy, genetic policy, municipal economy, pension reform, labour environment law. In all these sectors, opposition parties are moving in different directions. Anyway, we're going to have an open line, we're going to have an open discussion. But let me say, without telling you any big secret, there might be a difference between these games. In a lot of things, it's probably a Christian People's Party that's very close to the government parties. That's why we usually find solutions with them. Nevertheless, in some areas, it is particularly important that the parties join together across the dividing lines, areas where we need broad, lasting solutions, things that mean a lot to the Norwegian people, and things where we should rise above the party-political battle. The question of the future of the state church is such a question. We're going to have a discussion during this ageing period on whether we're going to fundamentally change the system that's been in Norway for 470 years. Then we should have lasting solutions. No new changes are made in this respect every major period. We may be going to implement constitutional changes, and this is something that means a lot to the Norwegian people. We have now sent out to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection a call for 2 500 hearings. Community councils, municipalities, organisations, individuals all over the country are engaged in a debate. We also invite the big parties to participate. We know that more people will discuss this at their national meetings during the spring of 2007. And then, if we're going to make constitutional changes in this period, we're going to have to do it by the end of September 2008 at the latest. We want broad, good and lasting solutions in this area. It's going to require a lot of us to avoid this issue becoming a partisan gambling issue, but instead we take the responsibility that means so much to people in the most important situations in life -- that we have a broad and open church, that we take inwards that Norway has become a diverse, multicultural and multi-religious society, and that we provide good solutions that work for the most people. We invite the opposition parties to participate in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1109	One of the foremost, not to say the foremost, professional and regional jazz centres in Norway is the West Norwegian Jazz Centre. This is the subject of both professional and politically broad consensus, which the Council of State is certainly aware of. In order to maintain its high level and further develop its diversity, the county councils of Rogaland, Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane as well as the Bergen city council have all addressed the department and the state council with a request that this centre should have the status of a focal point centre. With background in the approx. two lines with which culture is referred to in the Common Era are my question to the Council of State as follows: Will the Council of State contribute to the future funding of West Norse Jazz Centre according to node status?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1116	I can promise that in the budget presented tomorrow, we will both bet widely on culture and bet specifically on Western Norse Jazz Centre. Now I'm probably accused of leaking from the budget, but they asked for it! [[Laughter]] The jazz has to get its own. If it becomes node status, I don't know if I can promise, but we're going to implement our cultural promise – 1 pst. of the cultural budget for the period until 2014. If it's the case that the Advance Party will join the Cultural League if I promise money to the West Norwegian Jazz Center, then I think it's a good deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1121	I even come from a county, Hedmark, where we've had a female bishop, even the first female bishop in Norway. Most, including myself, are very pleased with that. The bishop we've had has confirmed that it's crucial in such positions is competence and fitness, not gender. She has done a formidable job and has in many ways paved the way. Now the state council invited us to discuss the long lines, and the invitation to find broad solutions in this area I think everyone is prepared to take. I know that the party of the Council of State has not concluded, but the majority position that lies there from the Stat-Church Committee will require that the Church be prepared to develop its own democracy to take responsibility for precisely this kind of process. Then it becomes an interesting question if the Council of State sees it as a challenge in relation to the appointments he now faces, to cultivate such a process even within the Church itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1128	First, the Church Council – that is, when the Government meets in the Council of Churches – is part of the Church itself. It's a church organ, it's the state church members in the government who appoint bishops. If we are to follow the position of the Committee on the Remembrance and we are to move this power to appoint bishops from the Council of Churches, i.e. one church organ, to other church bodies, I believe that it is imperative to do something about the democratic processes within the other church organs. The church meeting we know is based on congregational committees where 3 pst. by the members of the churches. Then they choose again the Council of Bishops, which in turn constitutes the Church Meeting. In my view, it is too poor a democratic foundation to take these important decisions. So I fully agree that if you are to have such a change, you also have to prepare the organs of the church for another kind of democracy. When appointing bishops, professional qualifications are important and the nomination process in advance is important. But also an overall composition of these eleven, the episcopal college, is important to ensure the broad, open people's church that we want in terms of gender, theological position, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1137	I was a little happy when I saw that the government had given priority to putting the Minister of Culture first on his list of speakers. But I hear from what the Minister of Culture thought it was important to convey, that it was more important to convey that it is right that he has a prime minister in his stomach, and not necessarily to raise culture. He boasted of the ownership message, which, of course, has led us to have more foreign owners here than if we had complied with the Left's proposal. We in the Left really have great expectations of the additions made by the Council of State, and I have great expectations for tomorrow. Sense if the council has been quick to lick all sorts of pebbles, a cultural promise is a real boost, so then we expect him to raise the big things. I'll give you an example. The Council of State has today told us to take care of what is cultural heritage tomorrow on the water too, namely «Skibladner». It's fine. Has the Minister of Culture thought that when it comes to taking care of coastal culture, it might be a little wrong to start with ‘Skibladner’?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1146	I don't know how detailed we're going to go into the different budget lines of the cultural budget in a throne debate, but I strongly defend supporting 'Skibladner'. It's become a cultural institution. It used to be an important trajectory, but today it's part of our cultural heritage. We're also betting on the sailboats, i.e. "Christian Radic" and the other boats. They're part of our story. We're a nation – even inland, we are. And we want to take care of that. But I'm glad that Trine Skei Grande has expectations for the cultural budget. There's absolutely every reason to have, and I actually think that the Left, which is often concerned with culture – and where we can probably find out – is going to be happy about what we get, and be satisfied with this change of government in the field of culture. So I look forward to a good cooperation on a good cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1153	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1156	We get through the media to say every day the memory of the major challenges we face when it comes to putting in place a high-quality and dignified care for the elderly in this country, where the quality is really put in the high-seat. It is a fact that there are currently considerable differences between municipalities in the range of services provided to those in need of care. It is a fact that today it is the residence address of the individual that determines which offers the individual receives. In St.meld. No 50 for 1996-97, the government of Jagland presented a four-year action plan for the development of a comprehensive care service to meet the needs of users. This was presented as a follow-up to Mr Carl I. Hagen's proposal in the 1996 throne debate to ask the Government to present a big message with a plan for full hospital coverage based on exclusive space for those who want it. This shows that it is possible to put the agenda in the context of proposals in the debate on the throne, as the Progress Party has now also invited the Stortinget to follow up further on the proposals submitted today. In the context of the old age plan that is now behind us, it is likely that few people are in doubt that it has largely ended in the development of nursing homes and too little in the development of nursing homes. This has resulted in many forms of housing reform and no care reform. It was therefore high expectations that the Government announced that it would provide a care message that would address both the quality of the care sector and, not least, how to put in place several places of nursing and care in nursing homes. All the parties on Stortinget wanted such a notification. This is now presented to Stortinget. I would also like to pay tribute to the Brustad Government Council, which invited all parties to a dialogue prior to the message being submitted. This is a Communication that, despite some good proposals, will not be able to meet the major challenges facing this sector. It is worrying when the only government that produces this theme in the Common Era is the following: «The target of 10,000 new annual works in the care service is followed up by the strengthening of the municipal economy.» This is what the census contributes to in the care of the elderly and the care sector in Norway. Where does the effort to increase medical coverage in hospitals go? Well, it's going to be financed within the increased resources of the local economy. What about putting in more sick places, so that those who are waiting in the hospital room today will get it? Well, here the Government announces that it will return to the issue of investment grants in the context of the 2008 State budget. In other words, just a pusher on the problem. It seems that the government is not able to capture the signals that come about that one has to quickly put in place more hospitals. It is high time that one looked at the way the care sector is funded, so that it is not just the residence address that determines which help each individual receives, but that this needs to be seen through legal rights related to care needs and with direct government funding. Finally, I would like to make a few comments related to the specialist health service. There's a crisis in the specialist health service. One has worked up a huge debt burden, yes, at the end of the year one is approaching, according to the figures published, NOK 7.5 billion. There is a need to make a debt relief plan for health businesses. There is also a need to do more with the distribution of inequalities between health businesses, and there is also a need to do something about the subsidies to each health business. State Council Giske said he was challenged to bring leaks from the state budget. Yes, I challenge Brustad State Council to comment later on the same, and I look forward to an answer that will at least provide the patients with help. They don't do that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1181	I am surprised that the Progress Party has been so little concerned with combating crime so far in this debate, as serious challenges as we are facing. Reciprocal crime must be combated. The government has strengthened the police, and the police themselves have coordinated their efforts. It's going to come up with a faster response. Black BMWs and other luxury paid with criminal dividends shall be collected. Preventive efforts to prevent recruitment shall be reinforced. But the Progress Party has been absent in this debate. We owe the immigrant communities that are law-abiding, that the gangs are not allowed to go free. What will the Progress Party do to address the immigrant environment and prevent recriminalism?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1189	That was a good health question, I must say. The starting point for my answer is this: I think it is the Labour Party that has been completely absent from the job, because if there is a party in this Chamber that has made proposals on proposals for combating crime, it is the Progress Party. Time and again, we have proposed increased appropriations to the police, to the courts and to the prison services, just to get away from this. I think maybe the most desperate way you can protect the law-abiding invaders is just to make sure that they punish the people who do it wrong, because it's those who actually destroy those who are law-abiding. It should also soon be taken over by the Government and ensure that those who do something wrong are punished and expelled — that is also an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1196	The representative Nesvik starts from the major challenges, and he talks about differences in offers and that residence address determines. These are good reflexes. What always surprises me with the reflections of the Advancement Party is that they stop working when you get to Svinesund. It is that where we are born and where we live, we are quite determining what fate we are going to have here in life. This means that international solidarity is one of Norway’s most important contributors. The Progress Party expresses its desire to limit immigration to Norway and to help refugees close to their country of origin. At the same time, the party expresses their desire for radical cuts in transfers to aid. In a situation where almost all arrows point the right way for Norway, the Progress Party wants to cut help for those who have the worst in the world. In what way will the Progress Party help refugees near their homeland, while they will cut the aid radically?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1203	In the u-help debate and the immigration debate that we are going to have in Norway, the Progress Party has been there, and will participate for the whole way. With regard to what has to do with helping in your home country, all the studies show that you can help so many more if you can help them in the neighbourhood. The cost is completely different. Opportunities without being dragged away from their cultural and common positions also make it much easier to take action in that area. The Progress Party has never said that the entire budget available is going to go away. We want to bet on, among others. disaster relief and assistance in the neighbourhood, so that as much assistance as possible can be provided. The government's policy is to help a very small number here in Norway, and this means that funds are spent on few people instead of being used where they do the most good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1212	I wonder how long the Advance Party will cry out for crisis, crisis in most areas of society. There is a crisis in the health care system, there is a crisis in the care of the elderly. Never before has so much money been used for specialist health care, never before has the municipalities been given such a huge financial promise as they have received in the current year. We don't have to break up much by saying that the budget on Friday will continue to provide the specialist health service and the municipalities with adequate funds. I was a little surprised, because I'm actually concerned that here at Stortinget we're going to try to figure out some common solutions. It seems that the Progress Party is not participating. I would like to invite the Advance Party, when we are going to deal with the Christmas care message, to be part of and be constructive, as the other parties on the Stortinget have said that they want to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1219	I have to promise that the Progress Party will be constructive, as we are always in that kind of debate. We are going to be involved in the debate and we are going to be involved in making proposals for solutions. At least we have also, as the only party, already initially submitted a representative proposal relating to the care sector and an alternative method of financing the care sector, precisely to use the economic dimension as an incentive. When you talk about a crisis, what worries me the most is that the representative, Mr. Chillaa, here, says he doesn't know that there's any crisis in the hospitals. One simply pushes away the fact that hospitals report that patients in some areas are soon not receiving hospital treatment because there is no money for it. We see finished, open departments at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim that can't be used because of lack of money. It is also time for government parties to take into account that the situation in the specialist healthcare service needs to be addressed, so that Norwegian patients get the help they need, even within the timescales they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1228	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1231	The image of foreign policy in the last few weeks and months gives rise to deep concern. Let me do a couple of examples. In Afghanistan, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda have strengthened and stepped up attacks on ISAF, where Norwegian defence is involved.In the neighbouring country of Iran, the authorities continue to spite the UN and continue to work on their destabilising nuclear programme.In Lebanon, Iran's local prosthesis declared a war against Israel, which led to major devastation and aroused the mood throughout the region.In the Gaza Strip, Israel's warfare against the Islamists has led to major destruction, and the political and armed confrontation between Fatah and Hamas is increasing in power.In Sudan, the regime despite the UN, refuses to enter into a UN force and allows the atrocities in Darfur to go its way. Imagine what might happen in the next few years, if any, or say all, of these conflicts continue to carry the wrong place: full civil war in Iraq, possibly with intervention from neighbouring countries major losses for the ISAF force Iran, which owns nuclear weapons and threatens other states in the Hezbollah region, re-arming itself with Iranian and Syrian aid, increasing its political influence in Lebanon and starting a new war-torn Palestinian civil war leading to the collapse of the Palestinian self-government continued persecution, violence and lawlessness in Darfur These are unfortunately not imaginative horror visions, but possible outcomes of actual processes that are going on today. I sincerely hope that these processes will be reversed. They can and must be turned around, and Norway must do its part of the job of turning them around. Because not at home either is peace and deportability what it tends to be. A terrorist action in the middle of our own capital has been under planning. It shows that Norway is a country in the world, a part of the world, at good and bad. We're going to take the consequences of that, not hide it with any string at the bottom of a speech. It was therefore with great interest and expectation that I listened to the speech of the throne and the announcement of the state of the kingdom. What is the Government’s response to today’s serious security problems? What is the Government’s reality, Norway’s opportunities, capacities and responsibilities? There were some signals from the Government in the message, partly also in the census, but much less than expected. I miss a clear message from the Government, not whether these challenges exist, we all know that, but how important they are on the Government priority list – how important they are to Norway. If we're going to meet these challenges, it has a military side, and it has a legal side related, among other things. to border control and police, areas where we benefit from our Schengen membership. We must also make some important choices in the balance between freedom and democracy on the one hand and control and censorship on the other. In the United States there is a heated debate on legislative proposals that are shifting this particular balance towards more control. But that also applies to us. I am therefore pleased with the joint opinion of 30 European national lawyers who state that terrorism should be combated by civil society justice. ‘If our societies fail in these areas, it is a saying of terror as an instrument,’ says the evening post leader two days ago. Do we have a government that understands, and that engages in this fundamental issue? The languages of the throne and the statement give no answer to that. There is reason for concern, because we know that the red-green camp is deeply divided into security policy. It is those who believe that any use of military power is reprehensible, which undermines Norwegian men and women who risk their lives in order to build peace and development beyond Norway’s borders, who believe that NATO, our main ally, threatens world peace and thus also Norway. On the contrary, they are found in the government apparatus which, like the Right, believes that military power – with everything it involves – may be necessary, along with the other instruments. We've seen this tension for years. We see it in the Soria Moria statement, we've seen it in the government, in the Stortinget, in the lawn in front of the Stortinget, in the media and on the Internet. There is reason for great concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1296	I want to start my speech first by thanking the Prime Minister because he so clearly stated that our energy policy in the future will be based on the commitments we have in relation to our climate responsibility, and that the Soria Moria declaration is solid in those areas. It's one of the most important things that this government can address, which means something to the life base of those who are going to come after us. It is not possible to have a major issue on the agenda and to make a commitment in relation to it. In addition to that, I'm very happy that it's the staging president who's sitting in the chair now, because I also want to thank the staging president for the speech at the opening. It was a timely reminder to all of us that the poverty problem, both globally and nationally, is one of the major issues that we have to take on in order to do something about. There it is that it may not be so easy to reach, with all the pressure coming from other strong press groups. I want to quote something I read in a newspaper today. It is a political adviser in the Council for Mental Health who says that in a cry-and-cry democracy there is a great responsibility on the people elected to see the invisible. It is a responsibility and a challenge that the Stortinget is given by the President, and that challenge must be addressed. Then to the poverty policy. There have been several speakers from the opposition on the pulpit today who have made it appear that this government is continuing the poverty policy of the previous government. No, that's not right. There are several of us who are impatient, and very impatient, in that the government is going to do more. But there is no doubt that this government has taken a huge leap in this area in its first budget, where the budgets increased by 500 million. kr in this area. In addition to this, cutbacks were made in relation to cutbacks to the unemployed. And that's not small money! These are sums that are relative to, for example, holiday pay up to next year will amount to 750 million. kr to people without income at work. This applies to the permitting code, with a turnover of 180 million. kr, and in the case of the State guarantee for the compensation of people who lose their wages and salaries in the event of the bankruptcy of enterprises. The narrowings of the previous government in these areas hit in the middle of the blink – inside the path – for those who had the most difficulty. My expectations for this year's budget are high, but I don't think I'm going to be unemployed after this budget! I think I'm going to have a job in the future to push in this area. It must be a pleasure to do so, because it is necessary. But especially to the Right, which is now out there – high and low – and talking about investing in people, and that is the most important thing we should do, I would like to say: Yes, it was the government that tightened up the measures of the unemployed, it was the government that changed the legislation so that there were fewer who were offered measures from the labour market parliament. I agree with the Right Leader, Erna Solberg, when she talks about reading and writing training. But it's strange that it came in the second that the previous government went off. This is a fight I think we're going to have together, but I think it's a little unfair if you present it as a fight that the Right now in a way heroic will carry on alone. So that's not right. Finally, I have listened to the debate today and am a little surprised that you might not be quite able to choose from what you think this government is doing exactly the same thing as the previous government, and that this new government has done a terrible lot of stupid. I think you'll have to decide soon whether you think what the government is doing is good, in line with what you've done before, or if you think it's wrong. I mean, there's a very big difference between this government and the previous one. This is the main policy direction, which is at stake in the community over larger tax havens to the richest. It appears in the community economy, as in the care of the elderly, that the representatives of the Right were also concerned with in their posts. So there won't be any more people working to cut the municipal economy. It's getting fewer in the work of it. There are fewer women who get work, and there are fewer older people who get care for the elderly. That is why this is a choice of values and that policy is linked. So you have to make a choice, and that choice also has to stand for the right. They cannot pretend that a policy of cutbacks in these important areas meets what they are saying today, namely that it is important to invest in people and get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1312	I would like to ask the representative the following questions: SV and the representative Karin Andersen have spoken warmly about improving the living conditions of the poor and combating poverty. According to the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, today we have 246 000 Norwegian minimum pensioners living below the poverty line of the OECD. Does the representative think that the minimum pensioners have a decent economy? And can the representative guarantee that the current government will provide the minimum pensioners with income in line with or above the poverty line of the OECD?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1320	The representative Eriksson knows very well that we are going to deal with a proposal for the pension reform in the Stortinget, and then we will deal with the whole of our pension system. I want to say that it is right that there are some minimum pensioners who have it very difficult, but that does not apply to everyone. I'm going to follow that development, but I definitely mean that if we're going to spend a lot of money on the older part of our population, it's the most important thing and the first thing we have to do is make sure there's enough money for the care of the elderly. That's the most important thing we can do for that age group. There is a lack, it acknowledges the government. That is why we have strengthened the local economy, and that is why it is now working systematically to look at the whole care sector, so that we have a worthwhile offer, for those who need our attention the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1327	In one area at least this government and its supporting parties stand out: it has Norway's record in boasting of itself. But there's a huge difference between the voters' evaluation and the government's own evaluation. The party that Karin Andersen represents has fallen like a rock on the gallop after the election, and the other two government parties have done it even more. Is it so to understand that the voters are stupid, or are you considering following Bert Brecht's advice to replace the people, since it doesn't understand how brilliant the government you've been given? Before the elections it was said from the Prime Minister that no five ears should be given in tax booklets to anyone until it shines through the care of the elderly. In the flood of budgetary leakages, we have been told that a couple of hundred million dollars will be given in tax relief to the trade unions, and today the Minister of Agriculture is telling us about 50 million. to forest owners in this country. It is a relatively selective form of tax relief, for there is a receipt back to the sponsors of the government parties. But does Karin Andersen think that this is helping those who have the least in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1334	Firstly, I will correct. It is not true that SV has fallen like a stone to the polls. It is a wrong image. So I think some of the turmoil that people feel is that they have great expectations of this government attached to the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the most radical government statement that I think some government has had. That means that you want the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration to be fulfilled. We have heard the Prime Minister today assure us that tomorrow we will have a good budget, which will make the voters get results as well. That's what they're waiting for, and we're working on it for them to come forward. I have no faith at all that it is the voters who are stupid, but I think the voters are critical. They are critical and expectant of a project for which they have great hopes, because that is the policy they want, and not the policy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1341	I want to include two themes in this line. For many years, the representative Karin Andersen has shown a strong commitment to social issues, especially poverty problems. We think that in the left is positive, and we share this engagement. The left considers that it is necessary to ensure that all those who do not have their own labour income, a guaranteed minimum income, also called "citizen pay", are linked to an individual plan. My first question to the representative Andersen is whether we can expect support for this idea in a government in which SV is involved, and political cooperation on this matter. The second question is not in Andersen's field of action, but since she is a central representative of the same party as the Minister of Knowledge, I would like to ask about the dramatic textbook situation in the Sami school. At present, textbooks are not available according to the new curricula of the Knowledge Lift. What will the SV and the Government do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1350	The last question I just have to refer to representatives who are within that topic of daily life. I just have to say I can't answer that. To the first question, yes, the two most important political issues I work with are the environment and poverty. The left has a civil salary as one of its proposals. I think it's worth looking ahead to such a proposal, but the job I'm going to do in the future in Stortinget is based on the Soria Moria statement. The Soria Moria Declaration states that we must now work hard to create a soft line of work that works, that we must have a boost for the poorest, and a whole range of other measures in poverty policy – including: the development of what is mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration as welfare contracts, but which is to be a right for those who do not currently have rights in public security, to also obtain action and follow-up. It's a very good step in the direction that the Left also wants to work for, for these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1357	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1360	When Rosenborg-trainer Per-Mathias Højmo came back after a long sick leave, he said to the newspaper: ‘I’ve seen what social democracy has built — a system that takes care of the individual. A system where you are kept independent of your moneybook.’ That's exactly what's at the heart of social democracy: that everyone should be taken care of, that everyone should be involved – no matter what you are, where you come from, and how much money you have. In many areas, we still have large unsolved tasks. Therefore, the Government is systematically working to strengthen Community schemes. It was the last harvest chosen by the people: well-being over tax havens, Community solutions over privatisation. We have heard for too many years about children who are not allowed to sit in the nursery, and despaired parents who have had to consider leaving work. It is high time to let young families out of this uncertainty. The Stoltenberg government therefore clearly states that all cloths should be used to get full child-care coverage during 2007. Everyone's going to fit in, everyone who wants to fit in. It is a significant value for a society to have a school where children with widely different backgrounds not only get equal educational opportunities but also meet and play with each other across different backgrounds. One of the first things that the red-green government did was therefore to put an end to the plans of the right-hand side on privatisation and fragmentation of the school offer. Now we're taking new steps to make sure that no one falls outside. Inger B. Thommessen wrote in the Newspaper on 28 August this year about those who can't afford to pay $15,000 for school books in high school. While the right-hand side of every year has looked through the fingers of this problem, the Stoltenberg government is taking hold of it. We've seen the introduction of free secondary education for everyone. By 2009, no longer shall there be any need to worry about whether they can afford to buy learning material. Per Egil Haga, of the Central Council of Senior Citizens in Oslo, spoke to the Daily Newspaper earlier this year about the sick home offer in Oslo: ‘If you take a shower once a week, you are lucky.’ Several places in the country have been showered for older people every two weeks, including those who are incontinent. We can't have it like that. Of course, it is not the caregivers' fault that they do not have time to provide the elderly with needed care. The problem is that care for the elderly has been too low for too long. The new government will fix that. In the last budget presented by Per-Kristian Foss, he would grant NOK 6 billion in new tax reliefs. Rather, the Stoltenberg government spent SEK 5.7 billion on strengthening, among other things. care for the elderly in the municipalities. It gave a better offer to the elderly. I am constantly getting enquiries from people who, for some reason, have been out of work. Many people talk about a long-term dance between different public offices. Now a reform is being implemented to ensure that all those who are unemployed or unemployed can contact one office for help. But the Government will go further: By binding agreements, people are to be guaranteed offers that provide a way to active participation in work rather than passive receipt of benefits. We want everyone with us! New asylum seekers have particular difficulties in entering the labour market. Language is often a barrier. Therefore, Norwegian training is reintroduced into the asylum recipients, as terminated by the Bondevik Government. It also simplifies the daily life of asylum recipients and makes them more meaningful. Everyone will be allowed to participate in society and in the world of work. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. We have a special obligation to fight poverty and poverty. And we see that the aid works. It contributes to the development of democratic governance, justice, educational institutions and health. It helps the poorest people in the poorest countries to build their own future. The government's goal is to have at least 1 pst. GNI shall provide assistance. Also internationally, we have to aim to attract everyone. Large targets are not reached overnight. But they'll never be reached if you don't go in the right direction. The census clearly shows that Norway is now steered in a different direction than a year ago: towards stronger communities, towards a society where everyone is to be included, where everyone is to be seen, and where everyone is to notice that they are part of the community – even if you have become ill, even if you do not make a lot of money, even if you have gone wrong. Everybody's coming! No one shall remain outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1399	Today, we hear from representatives of the government parties, including the head of the finance committee, that a number of areas want to be given priority. Many of the areas currently mentioned are areas in which the Progress Party will agree to strengthen. Last year, when we dealt with the state budget and the Progress Party proposed that a number of areas be strengthened, we were told that spending more money would create pressure in the economy. And that was for government parties not to recommend. When we hear that a number of new areas are actually going to be given priority – and I assume that, among other things. Because of this rule of action, there is now an opportunity to spend more money, as one actually receives a much larger oil fund – is my question to the Workers' Party: Why does the Workers' Party now think it makes sense to inject several billion dollars into the Norwegian economy in 2007 than in 2006, all the time the Government itself claims that the pressure in the economy is high, that unemployment is record low, and that there is no available capacity? Or is it that responsible economic policy is defined by how many billions of dollars the rule of action gives at all times?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1406	I will assure the replicator that the budget presented tomorrow is well adapted to the economic situation in the country. On the other hand, we have seen that the Progress Party has provided budgets that involve spending 20-30 billion more per year. years. And who could better give an analysis of the impact of it than the head of the Bank of Norway, who, on direct questions in the Finance Committee of the Stortinge, has determined that it will have an immediate impact on interest rates, which will go up, and it will have an immediate effect by the fact that the competitive sector will lose thousands, not to say tens of thousands of jobs. At the same time, when the Progress Party is talking about increasing the funding, the big challenge of the Progress Party is that they really want a completely different system for welfare systems. They want to develop private schools where the Workers' Party wants to strengthen the primary school. They want to develop private hospitals where the Workers' Party wants to strengthen common hospitals. We are committed to strengthening the community. The Progress Party system will be to strengthen those who have the most money from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1415	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen started by quoting a football coach. Let me start with another one, which said that the Norwegian football team should at least not run with red-green football, which involves promising a lot and delivering little. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is often referred to as the father of the rule of action. There's a rule that should give us the opportunity to use more heads of oil in the coming years. There's amazing opportunities oil revenue gives us to make sure people get the pension into the account, while at the same time we have more opportunities to invest in the future. And when the rule of action was established, Karl Eirik Schjøtt- Pedersen said that the oil money to be used in the Norwegian economy will be used to invest in infrastructure and roads. They will be used to invest in research and development, in humans, and they will be used for lower taxes, growth-stimulating tax reliefs. What we have heard about the budget leaks so far indicates that we intend to spend the money on everything else. My question is whether Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is committed to what he thought in 2001, namely that oil money should be used for infrastructure and roads, for knowledge and for growth-enhancing tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1425	First, I've registered that statement from another football coach. I am therefore very pleased that when the budget is to be presented to the Stortinget, you will see that the Government delivers what it has promised. The Soria Moria Declaration, which underpins the government's policy, is being followed up in all respects. It is true that there is a declaration valid for four years. Over the four years, there will be a clear turn of Norwegian policies, from the development of tax incentives to those with the most and a trend towards more private offers, to a development that strengthens the community and strengthens the common welfare systems. This will be seen in tomorrow's budget. I can assure you that the budget for the following year and the budget for 2009 can also be seen. Then I stand firm that it is important that we facilitate that we can both create and share. We did so in that budget that the previous Stoltenberg government presented. I feel convinced that this is also the case in the budget that comes tomorrow. For the government, it's important to have a balance: we have to create more to have more to distribute, but then we also have to ensure a fair distribution of what we share.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1432	For a moment I wondered if Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was about to appoint Rosenborg as a kind of social-democratic top club, but luckily it didn't go that far. On the other hand, I can follow the terminology. 'Everybody should come!' said Schjøtt-Pedersen. It is a challenge that in the last year, the number of unemployed persons has increased by almost 10 000 people, and about 30 000 are in line for the provision of vocational retraining. In ours, the Government met the challenge of cutting the budget just toreducereduction measures and weaken the offer to those who need long-termreduction measures. I would therefore like to ask Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen: will the Workers' Party continue to support a policy that requires those who need longer careers to be offered a weakened offer to finance the efforts of those who are going through short-term measures? Is this the order of 30,000 people to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1439	I think it is important to stress that we have had a severe decline in unemployment during the last year. If I am not very wrong, the unemployment rate has decreased by 22,000 people. We are concerned that those who have the opportunity to contribute to the labour market should have the opportunity to do so, including: through re-routing processes. That is exactly what I am glad that the representative of the Seven, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party agree that we must have a policy that makes everyone in it. That's why it's going to shape the economic structure of the Government tomorrow, that we need to have a development in that we, for example. facilitates children to have the opportunity to have a kindergarten offer, that we strengthen school provision so that everyone can participate, that we do not develop private offerings for those who have the most money, but rates of community offerings that are so important to the community slime, bets on the development of health services so that they reach all, and not just private solutions for the few. These are important elements of the policy that the Christian People's Party and the present government agree on, and I hope we can also stand together in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1446	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1449	The heat and light of housing and the power of business are some of the most important societal tasks the Stortingen has to do with. Going power, stopping society. That's exactly what we're now in danger of experiencing. Power prices are record high, and several energy authorities say that there is a risk of a power crisis already in winter. Most people now notice the consequences of a long-term faulty energy policy. The situation has not occurred overnight, but the government's paralysis of action shows that it will not be resolved with the first either. We experience a lot of talk, but there are very few concrete measures to correct the situation, both in the short and long term. For the time being, the most concrete recommendation from the Minister for the Environment is to shower less and turn off the heat. SV obviously has no ambition to do anything about the situation either, as both Minister of Environment Bjørnøy and Swedish Energy Policy spokesperson have said that they expect the electricity prices to be high in good time in the future. Aid for pellet shale is as far as the only concrete measure promoted by the Government’s Storing and the award criteria have not yet been clarified. So people are at risk of buying pellets that they don't get support from the Government. Of course, those who struggle most with the electricity bill cannot afford to buy pellet stoves at all. The government's energy policy is characterised by a lot of internal controversy and disagreement. The Enox must constantly interconnect between the Workers' Party and the SV, and must experience many outputs from individual representatives. It cannot be interpreted as anything more than lack of faith internally in the Government that they have a good strategy to solve the challenges. Government parties say they should amend the Energy Act, but they have completely forgotten that the Energy Act was revised as late as 2005. Then the Workers' Party and the Centre actually had no input into any changes. Now they think they're going to change the Energy Act and force more power projects on the track. But they should also do something about the more than 300 power projects already in the Ministry of Oil and Energy for treatment. These are probably projects, but there is a lack of political action. The Enox, the Minister of Energy, is opening the door, and the Minister of Environment is closing it again. The Progress Party has been promoting a number of proposals in the last year, but the government parties have voted against. The Progress Party has requested an action plan for gas power plants. We have proposed an energy policy action plan. We have proposed an overall plan for wind power, small-scale measures, green certificates together with the Swedes, upgrading and upgrading of hydropower, strengthening Statnet's work on security of supply and government responsibility for natural gas infrastructure. All of this has been voted against by the government parties because they say they have other measures. What measures? They have said that they should clean up existing hydropower plants. Then there will be a project in More and Romesdal, Verma Power Plant. It's automatically turned off. The government has promised to invest in wind power, but the signals coming from the wind power industry are that the government's support system is becoming too bad and will not be used. The government has promised to invest in small power plants. All they've done is they're demanding state-of-the-art plans, which are postponing the whole progress. The government has promised to invest in hydropower, but the first thing they do is to protect the tissue and say no to 1 TWh with environmentally friendly and reasonable force. This is reflected in the series of the 16 other major hydroelectric power projects that the red-green parties and partly the centre parties have voted against the last seven years. The matter of the gas power plants is best illustrated in the government today. Mongstad must certainly be characterised as far away from the world's best and most environmentally friendly gas power project. Here you get an exploitation of the energy that is enormously good. It will, together with measures at the refinery, provide safe jobs. It's profitable. There's enough gas in the area, and we know that Hordaland was at risk of a power crisis. It's a win-win situation in every way. The project has been known for over a year. On 15 October last, Kristin Halvorsen said that 15 years' struggle for gas power policy has finally been resolved by this government. As late as May this year, the Minister for Energy and the Minister for the Environment went out with a joint press release saying, "We fully agree on the framework conditions for gas power plants. And now we're here today. There is still no one who knows what framework conditions Mongstad will get, and the only thing that has happened in the last few weeks is that SV has misrepresented its own position. Had we only had fog power plants, we had managed to solve the energy crisis. Well, it's not. The government says they're going to contribute to CO2 cleaning, but they've never said how much. Rather, they should engage in secret negotiations with Statoil in order to realise this. But where is the predictability of a policy where you have to keep a secret framework? We can't have it like that. Today, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to relaunch the gas-power issue. We believe that the state must take responsibility for the CO2 value chain by establishing a state company that takes economic and technological responsibility for the CO2 clean-up chain. In this way, the operators that can build gas power plants will be able to do so without any risk of CO2 cleaning, and the oil companies that want to deposit will be able to purchase from CO2 Handling AS. I hope that the government parties will be able to act this time and support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1487	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1490	The Progress Party will resolve all climate and environmental issues in its own way and has its own solutions to this in which they believe and front in all contexts. But in the real world, we must show respect for national rules, laws and regulations. International agreements concluded by Norway on climate and environmental issues should also comply and improve in a more and more polluted world. My question will then be: can we ever have a reasonable hope in the future that the Progress Party will show respect for national and international climate and environmental agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1495	That was a very easy question. The answer is yes. The policy of the Progress Party is based on respect for, for example: The Kyoto Agreement. But the problem with the current government is that there's no place in the Kyoto agreement where a person demands to clean up gas from the first day. No other country in the world is demanding CO2 cleaning from the first day. It is fully legitimate to meet the Kyoto obligations by making investments in environmental measures in developing countries and by purchasing allowances from abroad if necessary. We know that the Norwegian oil industry has said that if they can buy quotas instead of having a CO2 tax, they will guarantee that Norway will meet its CO2 obligations in relation to the Kyoto agreement. There is nothing in the Progress Party that is proposing that violates the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1512	This government has launched an ambitious project to clean up gas power. It is the simple decision that was the focus of the Low Emissions Committee when its action plan was presented yesterday. Concessions have been granted for many new projects, including: to Vakna. The framework conditions for already existing gas power concessions have been prepared. This government is currently presenting its support schemes for new renewable energy. That's set at $20 billion for that. At all, my understanding of reality is not consistent with that of Solvik-Olsen when he says that little has been done. What I intend to ask Solvik-Olsen about is a proposal that he made earlier today, namely a strong reduction in taxes on electricity to households. This is done in a situation where supply is scarce, and it is said that this will reduce the cost to households. But within a market framework, it won't. There will be no more power from this," says Siv Jensen. And then the price is going to go up. Can the Solvik-Olsen confirm that such a policy will strengthen a crisis, not prevent it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1519	First of all, I have to correct a little bit of the reality of the representative Borten Moe. It is true that Mongstad and the Tent Credits have been granted concessions, but they have not received an emission permit. That's the same thing as giving a shopkeeper the right to build a store, but don't give him the right to sell anything from the store. It's completely worthless. That's what I'm aiming for, that the government is paralysed. To the end, there are clear framework conditions: Look at Forest. Forests have come up with a very good new project, where they combine bioenergy and gas power. But then the SV is right away on the track and says that they must have CO2 cleaning. So they're not guaranteed to maintain the concession they have. In the case of electricity taxes, it is correct that the reduction in the electricity charge does not provide more electricity in the market. But do you actually think that most people will start to turn on the heat and open the windows when the power price is 60-70 cents per. kWh? Do you think they do? No, actually, I don't think so. The marginal increase you get for Norwegian households will not have a significant impact on pricing, which, after all, happens in a Nordic power market where Norwegian households are a tiny proportion. When the government parties talk about a two-price system in prices, but rather an increase. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1531	The President would remind us of speaking time, and also of speaking to the representative through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1535	Olav Duun says somewhere that it's with virtue as with the diamond – it gets too big, it doesn't seem real. That's what it cracks. Can the representative Solvik-Olsen remember a government council from a former government during another power crisis recommend old ladies to put on jerseys if they couldn't afford to fire in the oven? Does he remember that there was a representative of a government that he confessed to? The relationship is precisely that the government that Solvik-Olsen confessed to is the cause of the problems that we have in the energy supply today. I would like to ask Mr Solvik-Olsen: at what time in the last period, for which he is co-responsible, did the Progress Party promote proposals to meet the need for new strength?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1542	I thank you for the question, because that is very relevant. Let me first say that the Progress Party supported the previous government in the budgetary procedure. But in energy policy it was the Workers' Party that was the main support partner of the Bondevik government, it was not the Progress Party. Let me justify it by pointing out that the Progress Party only promoted more than 30 concrete proposals on the Stortinget in 2003. All of them, except for one investigation proposal, were voted down by all of the parties, including the three parties that are today the red-green ones. So the Progress Party had an alternative policy already at that time, but also then we were voted down, the same thing that we are now. The party of progress was the only party that gave a clear warning when the Worm Lange expansion was adopted, that here we must also do something about the force situation. SV was also concerned, but it was because it could lead to the construction of gas power plants. None of the other parties cared about the power situation in 2004, so the Progress Party has nothing to be ashamed of here. It is the Bondevik II government and the Stoltenberg government today and in 2001 that should have done their homework.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1552	For us who are concerned with a good school, it was very disappointing to note how little central theme the school was in the throne. I must say that the following sentence in the speech was quite so illustrative: ‘The government is working to strengthen the public general school and will present a proposal in spring 2007 for amendments to the Law on Secondary Education.’ So what this government sees as the most important measure of creating a good public primary school is to somehow hit the 2 pst. who goes to a boarding school. Not a word about how we want to ensure well-qualified and safe teachers, not a word about how we achieve the goal of customised training for individual students, and not a word about how to make even more cooperation between home and school work. We need a government that has more visions for public schools than to make changes to the law. This autumn we have been given alarming figures on the rate of drop-out in higher education. The proportion of pupils and apprentices completing secondary education has fallen. 67 pst. of the students who started a basic course for the first time in 2000, completed five years of education. The corresponding figure for the 1999 coal was 70 pst. This means that one in three do not complete secondary education. This is serious for society, but most of all it's serious for the boy or the girl you're dealing with. Because it is important not to forget that these figures represent individuals and not least individuals. There are several measures that can be taken to get more young people to complete high school. It is about improving counselling services, ensuring the career guidance of all students, and getting even more practical training in youth. But more importantly, I think it will be to get knowledge about the complex causes of the dropout: why do so many choose to interrupt education? What's the main reason? What happens to those who interrupt education? What do we do with the growing generation? That's why the Christian People's Party will discuss that we have to go thoroughly behind the numbers to find answers to the questions. We will then have a much better basis for identifying good and targeted actions. In general, I would like to say that we have a good teachership. However, NOKUT’s evaluation of teacher training has shown us that we do not have as good a teacher as we should have. This is very serious both for Norwegian school and for the newly educated teachers. The report shows that theory and practice need to be better linked. That is why the Christian People's Party is in favour of introducing a mentoring system for newly educated teachers. In concrete terms, this means that newly-trained teachers should be linked to an experienced teacher in the first year of work. In this way, we ensure that we take care of and pass on all the good knowledge with which experienced teachers sit, while at the same time making the transition from being a student to being in the classroom easier for the newly educated teacher. When the Workers' Party in its time forced six-year-olds into school, all the resources helped to get new premises and more teachers into a new year's school. This happened at the expense of those who were already in school, and in particular the high school was injured. Now we see that the Labour Party will do the same problem again. The Workers' Party's proposal for free pre-schooling for all children in six months before regular schooling is, in reality, a proposal to introduce schooling for five-year-olds. Parents will be pressured to send their children to pre-school in order not to keep their children out of knowledge. The Christian People's Party will facilitate conditions so that parents can spend as much time as possible with their own children. That is why we strongly oppose the proposal of the Labour Party. Instead, we want to invest the resources in the school and make it better for those who are there. We need more qualified and safe teachers and, as I have said, adapted training for each individual student. Children must at least be allowed to be children for six years before they are forced to conform to adult premises. Government and government parties and their opposition have been running happily with budgetary leakages in the last few days. Had they been a barge, I think it had been discarded. It's gotten a little quiet among the rebels, and we, who are actually in opposition, now have the opportunity to be on the opposition arena alone. But of all the happy leaks, there's one place where there's absolutely mouse silence, and it's around the church. It is too quiet about religious training, and it will be a strong negative signal to the Norwegian Church if not the escalation that the government of Bondevik had is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1574	It is easy to conclude that without value creation and jobs there will be no well-being to distribute. Norwegian businesses are in a positive development, with good results for enterprises and with a high level of professional participation. Nevertheless, increased value creation is necessary in order to maintain the welfare community and contribute to high employment in all parts of the country. It requires an increased focus on research and development, on stimulating entrepreneurship and establishing willingness, on the development of strong business clusters in areas where Norway has special advantages, and not least on the maintenance and development of infrastructure. Industry is characterised by increasing diversity and different needs. Competition between enterprises and between nations is about the pursuit of competitive advantage. It suggests that, in a completely different way now than before, industrial policy should be directed towards identifying Norwegian advantages and strengthening them through the choice of both industrial and general instruments. The principle of nutrition neutrality must give way to bet in clearly defined areas such as: marine industries, shipping, shipbuilding, energy, oil and gas, etc. At the same time, it is important to continue to focus on strengthening Norwegian industry and product production. Research and development shall increase the knowledge content of Norwegian-produced goods and services in order to ensure competitiveness in the international market. Increased innovation capacity and spin-offs from existing enterprises as well as more start-ups from universities and research communities are needed. Agriculture is the industry that has the strongest link between work and living space, which is part of and ensures settlement in our rural areas. It is very gratifying that, through the last agricultural settlement, the Government and the bulk of the population have facilitated increased incomes and more robust agriculture and forestry. The centre batch will maintain local food production and fight for all countries to have the right to produce food for their own inhabitants. Through increased defence of our interests in the WTO and a good agricultural settlement, jobs in agriculture and in the food industry have been secured. Travel industry is high in Norway and has the potential for further growth. The unique Norwegian cultural landscape is an important factor in the experience of Norway as a tourist destination. Travel and agriculture have thus seen a common interest in cooperating to maintain the cultural landscape through active use. The fishing and farming industry is responsible for high export values and has a significant impact on coastal settlement and activity. There should continue to be a link between rural policy objectives and fisheries policy. In this context, the work undertaken by the Minister for Fisheries on a new structural policy for the fishing fleet is important. The choices made here will be crucial for the Community's long-term management and control of marine resources and future coastal value creation. The development of the petroleum industry in Norway has been an economic success, including in spreading activity across the country. It has been done by making demands on the companies in relation to concession awards. As the activity moves northwards along the coast, it is important for the Centre Party to make demands on the builder that land-based activities are also developed together with the activity on the base, in order to ensure that competence and activity benefit the entire country. For the Centre Party, it is important to ensure the sustainable exploitation of our oil and gas resources, where the consideration of other resources, in particular the unique fishing resources, is safeguarded in a forward-looking way. A good and efficient public sector is a competitive advantage for business. It is important to be able to facilitate the development of business throughout the country, through quality good and functional public infrastructure, through strong municipalities with good services, good health, care and education institutions and cultural, road, public transport, etc. This is the broad industrial policy. Reduced distance costs may be the main contribution to industrial development across the country. We want to build Norway. We have greater speed, greater ambitions and more investment on the road, rail and broadband than our predecessors. We increased the bet on the road and the runway by over 800 million. kr more than the Bondevik II government had proposed. We've allocated 120 million. kr for broadband expansion, the largest bet ever. A historical boost for kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly is also important for business. We have ensured that the free income of municipalities increases by NOK 7–8 billion during 2007, while total revenue increases by around NOK 11–12 billion. The differentiated employer’s fee is very important for the business world around the country. It provides a tax advantage of DKK 5.4 billion for business in the districts. The broad industrial policy is particularly important in the context of the narrow industrial policy, as it provides a basis for ensuring coastal and inland settlement and employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1605	The representative was in the field of agricultural policy, and the Minister of Agriculture has previously announced that enhanced customs protection will be an important part of Norwegian agricultural policy in the future. So we're going to wall in. What the government parties do not want to talk about, however, is who is going to pay the price for this policy. Because it is a fact that it is the ordinary consumer who has to pay the agricultural policy price of the Government through much higher food prices than the situation in comparable countries and a much lower range of products. What will the Central Party do to strengthen consumer interests in the Norwegian food market? Will the representative take the initiative to ensure improved nutrition for self-employed farmers? And can the representative explain why it is only the Progress Party who believes in the Norwegian farmer and that the Norwegian food industry can compete with international actors through quality safe and good food?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1619	It is very important that we have an agricultural policy throughout the country, and that we have an agricultural policy that produces good and safe food and that produces food that Norwegian consumers want. It's a situation we have today. And that's a situation we want to have in the future. I am convinced that the policies of the Central Party and the Government will contribute to this. Through WTO work, the Norwegian Government has taken offensive action to safeguard both the defensive interests in agriculture and to safeguard offensive interests in other industrial products, such as agriculture. fish. With regard to the development of agriculture in Norway, the Government, through its recent agricultural settlement, has helped to increase our profitability in agriculture and to improve the performance of independent farmers. It's a development that we're going to continue. In this respect, there is no contradiction between what we want and what the Progress Party wants. But at the same time it is also that the Progress Party will open the borders, and it will go beyond the Norwegian farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1626	In the throne speech it was said that the government will provide a ownership message. The ownership message has been postponed so many times now that you can remain in doubt if it comes at all. The background for this is, of course, that the management of state ownership in companies such as Telenor, Norsk Hydro, Cermac, Statoil and SAS Braathens has been the subject of almost a continuous internal and public debate between the representatives of the government parties. Ownership has become an area where the government struggles with great, unrealistic expectations that they have created themselves. And what is the question is whether the state should abuse its ownership of listed companies to stop, prevent or change the transformations and strategies decided by the management and boards of these companies. I mention concrete examples such as Telenor Enlightenment, Hydro Årdal, moving SAS Braaten’s workshop from the Sola to the Gardermoen and other similar issues. The demand for active ownership has now been rejected by the Prime Minister in the Christmas edition of Today's Economy last year. But my question is whether Breck wants a more activist ownership policy, or whether the passive line we've seen so far will be continued, as the assumptions were originally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1633	It's a very interesting question that the representative Hansen is raising here. I would like to stress that instead of the term ‘activistic ownership policy’, I would rather go to the term ‘active ownership policy’. It is a very clear premise that the Norwegian ownership, the country's ownership, should be put in place, where one clarifies the purpose of ownership, where one clarifies what one wants with the enterprises in which one owns. But at the same time, it is my opinion that it is the governing bodies of the companies that have the decisive word, and the ownership exercised by the state, must go through the governing bodies. Then it is also true that if, like a private actor, the State is dissatisfied with the government you have, it has an opportunity to go through the general meeting and change the composition of the board. So I don't think we're going to make any dramatic changes in practice there. But I am concerned that the state should clarify its objectives, its interests and its wishes for ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1639	For the Left, an active policy towards entrepreneurs and small businesses is one of the most important areas of policy. In the past, where the Central Party was united with the Left on a forward-looking policy, the Central Party is now in the forefront of a state-dominated old-fashioned 1950s policy. One of the many anti-business measures promoted by the Government is changes in the sickness pay scheme. 2.5 billion kroner were transferred to small businesses and municipalities to balance Friday's budget. There is a blow on the faces of businesses that are in the process of achieving the objectives of the IA Agreement, as well as a significant rise in the threshold for more people to fit into the labour market. This becomes a paradox when you know the representative Breck's many years as business manager. That's why I ask whether this is an active enterprise policy and a big stake in Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1646	The representative of Skjelstad addresses a problem that the Prime Minister and several representatives have previously addressed in the Chamber here today. My starting point is that one needs to find good solutions in collaboration with the social partners in order to ensure the health pay system and for the future development of sick leave. At the same time, it is also clear, as I see it, that once the Government has presented its proposal, it remains firm until alternative proposals have been made in the sample chaired by the Prime Minister. I look forward to the work being done, and I hope that the organisations will take responsibility and ensure that we have other solutions, if that is what they want. But in any case, the framework for the sick pay proposal must be firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1651	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1654	Earlier today, the representative Sponheim has drawn up the ideological platform for the Left: democracy, the rule of law, civil society and the market. In the ideology and political platform of the Left, the school – and a good school – is crucial to ensuring that we have democracy, to ensure that we have value creation, to ensure that we have a civil society, and to have a rule of law. In the history of the Left State, as Rune Schlagstad describes it, it is precisely the great project to add knowledge and say that ‘knowledge is power’ that makes democracy grow widely in Norway. That's why it's still the case that investing in school, ensuring that the school has high status, and that the teachers have high status, is a crucial project for the Left. It means a school where we focus on knowledge, and where we also focus on students, just like adults, being different people. In this context, I have noted with interest the Workers' Party's signals about a new course, presented by the representative Huitfeldt at the National Government Meeting of the Workers' Party, namely that the Workers' Party will now invest in knowledge in the school. What remains is whether the party in practical policy will follow up with appropriations and measures that make sense to this heading. For a good school policy is not created by rhetoric, but it is created by the practical actions. For the Left, the key to these practical actions is summed up in three slogans: teachers, teachers and teachers. In other words, we have good teachers, we also have a good starting point. It taught our Nordic neighbours in Finland when in 1970 they chose different from what we did in Norway. They are now reaping the benefit of 35 years of systematic effort. We see how it gets when it gets rough, in the same time period. If we're going to do something about it, in the Left's view, we need to reform our teacher training, both look at the content of what we call general teacher education, and make it five years old. We must ensure that it becomes solid and good, professional, practical and professional. In order to get there, we need to raise continuing training in a systematic and strong way, because it is today that continuing training for teachers in Norway is random, even almost occasional. Some places it's good, some places it's barely there. In this way, we ensure that we treat our teachers with respect, for example. respected by doctors, through their systematic and structured follow-up training. It's adding more competence. The Left’s proposal for a year of competence is, in practice, a proposal to continue the promise of knowledge as a national achievement and a piecework and to think forwards. It is true that when we did not give enough status and sufficient trust over 30–35 years – and many of us are responsible that we have not been in – we must ensure that those who are now in school, until we receive a different teacher training, can get the outstretched hand from the society they claim, which society needs, and the students deserve. Then there are two more issues for the Left – and once again we must be able to learn from life experience, which we all in the Chamber certainly have: Good specialised educators who are present in the practical teaching situation from the first day, will quickly see those who in some way need an extended hand, will quickly ensure that you do not pick up what may become a problem, until it finally ends as in our country, where almost 40 p.m. Of those in prison, ADHD has been diagnosed, and how many of them for the first time meet the outstretched hand as an inmate. What must be the whole bet is that we see little people early, so you get a chance. Then a considerable effort on specialized educators and a practical organization of this will be a way to do what the prime minister spoke about a few days ago, namely to see them as having a small voice, but that needs an outstretched hand, a warm hand and a fellow human being. Nothing of what we're talking about here can succeed without us daring to take the research seriously. It is that there is curiosity both about the research that does not know all the practical answers, what we call basic research, and the applied research that has built society before us, that continues to build it. The left has a turbulence – and I share it on behalf of the party in this pulpit – about what will happen to research and higher education with the budget that comes. But we'll have to wait and see. For the Left, we feel strongly committed to the research report that was presented, the stepping up of Norwegian research, both basic research, the provision of applied research, good meeting places between researchers, business and those who want to create something, and the systematic recruitment of those who want to do so. Summered up with a statement I saw as a signal from Europe: a Czech EU politician today says that without investing in teachers, teachers and teachers, we are unable in the long run to defend neither creation, democracy nor value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1676	Through the media, we have become aware that the Progress Party and the Right are approaching each other with a view to forming a broad bourgeois alliance inspired by the elections in Sweden. When we hear the way the Left is acting in the political debate, including here in the Chamber, we can get the impression that the lack of government power is significant also in the Left Party. In parallel, the Progress Party has repeated its demand for a maximum of 1000 immigrants per week over the past few weeks. in Norway. The left has, as you know, a rather different view of that matter. However, today’s polls may suggest that a future bourgeois alliance, if it does, will have a significant degree of party dominance. It is always tempting to meet challenges, to say that negotiations are taking place after elections, but it is tempting to ask whether the Left will sit in a government that will get such a FrP dominance. My question to Dørum is: would it be possible for the Left to sit in a government if the Progress Party gets an impact on its demand for a maximum of 1000 immigrants per year? years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1683	I find that the representative, who then represents the Workers' Party, chooses not to talk about school. Of course, I'm not surprised at that, because after the self-criticism that Huitfeldt's representative took on behalf of the work party effort in school, I realize that's what you choose not to do. I would like to say that I am pleased with the Workers' Party's new signals, and I hope that practical policy will follow that path. So if the representative wants a good left-hand answer to that -- I'm not going to do the rehearsal exercise here -- it's just reading the stenographic print of the representative Sponheim's answer to similar questions earlier today. With regard to immigration policy, I confirm that the Left has a different immigration policy than the Progress Party. It must then be clear to everyone who is involved in politics. But – that is also how the representative represents a government that would give us a wonderfully transparent situation. The chaos was about to be muted. Harmonics were to occur in the homeland, and everything was to be beautiful and predictable. Compared to the minority government I was in – and it was no joke to negotiate until it, but we moved on to a community that was honestly invented – I have to say that set up against the chaos of the Workers' Party with the Center Party and I understand that the representative chooses to ask me about it. But I would like to recommend a close study of how the Right, Left and Christian People's Party came out of it with each other. I think it's worth living for the parties Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, and I like to share the experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1692	The prom wants to talk about school, and we want to talk about a good school. We know that integration in the ordinary school for children with special learning needs has gone partly very far. We see general teachers without speciality. ped. – The representative was himself within this – and we see that many children are integrated into solitude and loss of self-confidence. We therefore believe that we need to have an increased degree of adapted learning, either in our own classes or, if necessary, specially organized schools for those who want it. Could the Left think of being with us to ensure these children an adapted learning, so that parents get the opportunity to choose the offer and the form of learning that they think is right for their child?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1697	I think the left's answer to this can be found by studying Oslo. The Oslo School has approx. 126 primary schools, 24 special schools and approx. 20 secondary schools. This means that you have chosen to believe that the adapted training, even for those who are struggling differently, can happen in primary school. But there are borderline situations where life is so difficult that it will be incredibly arrogant not to listen to parents' experience. We also have such arrangements in the Agder counties, where we have good intercommunal solutions just to offer the answers that parents need when normal school is unable to solve their problems. It is in this diversity that you see small and large people who need help. The left's basic idea is exactly what the representative is saying: we get a good school when teachers are professionally safe and they're safe adults. That is in line with my growth with the seven-year basic education that underpins my later life as a politician. But that is also true of the great Connect study that the University of Stavanger has done. One can just summarize it as follows: Professionally safe teachers and safe adults provide the basis for what the representative asks me about – adapted training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1704	This government rate at the public common school, contrary to what the representative Dagrun Eriksen claimed in a previous post. We follow up the promise of knowledge in a good way. We bet on the municipalities and as school owners. In essence, I also believe that the left is concerned with the common school, that quality should be strengthened, and that teacher training should be strengthened. Therefore, it was very surprising that the Left in the government participated in opening the locks for new private schools. One of the first knowledge minister Øystein Djupedal did, was stop a huge drag. 20 000 new student seats were to be released by Clemet from primary and secondary school. There were also very many student places which in no way constituted an alternative, neither pedagogical nor religious, but which would have drained the municipalities for resources. How could the old school party Left be involved in this bourgeois big business in private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1711	The old school party Left has always invested in a strong public school, but never has it seen that there are fresh schools, as a threat to this. We also didn't think what we did in the Bondevik II administration was such a threat, but we'll always assess whether our ideals are being implemented in practice. Our main line has always been to bet on public school. That's why it was with pride that we were fighting for the promise of knowledge. Of course, I am very pleased that we have got a new government that also maintains it, because it creates predictability for those who work in school. What I wanted was that the government that was there had also taken on board the criticism that has come from parts of the promise of knowledge, namely that teachers' continuing education is becoming too poor, that in other words, there should have been more money than now, in the case of budgetary leakages, presented to the public. And I wish you would take the consequences of the failure sins that my party has also been in for decades behind us, and helped fix this by giving a real handshake to the teachers in terms of a year of competence. But the Left would like to meet everyone constructively who wants to bet on safe and good teachers, and who wants to bet on special educators who see kids who are struggling early. Then we'll come back to the free school debate with great joy and commitment when that day comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1723	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1726	Before the 2002 election, Kristin Klemet and Right went out and said that if the red-greens came to power, the Knowledge Lift was in danger. Now the knowledge in Norwegian school is going to get confused, they said. Yes, the right even wrote in his election propaganda that now we will experience that it still becomes so that one in five students cannot read and write enough, if the red-greens come to power. Today, we see the same Kristin Klemet lamenting that Djupedal has not found anything new, but only implements the promise of knowledge – that is, the policy that she herself has invented. I also think that the post from Dørum now instead shows the cross-political consensus it has been about the basic feature of the Knowledge Lift. Here we agree. I also want to give Kristin Clemet credit for the work she did in relation to focusing on basic skills. We've seen too much that there's been too little learning pressure in school, that many have fallen outside. That's why we need a promise of knowledge. This is in line with what the major education ministers from the Workers' Party in the 1990s – Gudmund Hernes, Reidar Sandal and Trond Giske – have also stood for. They've all been busy grasping that we need to increase the learning pressure in school and bet on the basic skills. Here, there's a great deal of cross-political consensus. But where there has been disagreement between us and the right parties, it has been to what extent knowledge should cost. The last government invested in tax havens. The municipalities had to cut down, and many experienced that there were more and more students and fewer and fewer teachers. The previous government talked about quality, but many municipalities, and also Christian People's Party politicians, Left-Policians and Right-Policians locally, felt that there was a lack of consistency, talking about quality, while the municipalities had to cut down in parallel. Savings school was poorer. Of the 5.7 billion additional municipalities, we know that over a third of this went to school. 2 billion extra to school, it has contributed to much more quality! It has contributed to more teachers, better follow-up of each student, more school trips — in short, that education has improved. The previous government spent a lot of time saying that it's not so important how much money we spend in school. But a recent study from the Freshman Centre shows the very opposite. Experts in economics have made comparisons in terms of the learning outcomes of students, between municipalities that spend a lot of money at school, and municipalities that spend little money at school. And the result is how we could predict. It has an impact on the learning outcomes of how much money the municipality spends on the school. This is the fundamental difference between the new government and the one in the previous period. The other big difference is that we've stopped the growth in private schools. I hope we can get a broad consensus in this room on having a moderate private school law, because we saw a fresco that was far greater than what I think both the Christian People's Party and the Left had expected. We're in the middle of high school, because sitting next to each other in the same classroom gives us a very good social competence. It's one of the most valuable things in Norwegian society. After all, Norwegian society is based on a social contract between people from different walks of life, and the social contract must mean that we have social contacts in everyday life. That's how we know each other better. We want some alternatives, some religious and some pedagogical, as a supplement, but we don't want a fresco where we get greater differences between children. That's why the other big difference between the new government and the last one is the question of private schools. I want to say that we agree on the Knowledge Lift. That's what we've been doing. There's the cross-political consensus. But the new commitment in school policy is about an economic boost, and especially about a public school boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1747	This year's census did not offer an increase in defence, rather on the contrary: nothing is being signaled about the resources needed for operations and material. In reality, this means greater concentration of operating sites, i.e. several closures. Norway has traditionally had a defence with a focus on defending Norway. At the same time, we have been aware that we have a strong alliance with NATO, and thus have obligations towards our allies. In recent years, we have witnessed a turnaround in Norwegian defence and security policy. Defence has undergone major organisational changes, and security policy has been given a more offensive approach in this way that Norway is now more committed to situations outside our neighbourhood than in the past. The government has chosen to make use of the powerful means of action, namely military forces in their identification of Norwegian foreign and security policy. This implies that Norway per Today, well over 620 soldiers are engaged abroad. In addition, the crews of the four MTBs now being sent to Lebanon for possible participation in UN operations. Today’s Norwegian foreign strength contributions are mainly concentrated around Afghanistan and the operation related to ISAF. A total of 518 soldiers and officers are involved in Kabul, in Maymaneh and Mazar-e-Sharif. In connection with the Darfur Troupe Contribution Meeting, which was held on 25 September, State Secretary Espen Barth Eide represented Norway. The State Secretary confirmed at this meeting the willingness of Norway, i.e. the Government, to contribute a robust engineering transport company to operations in Darfur. Following the Government's plan, the Norwegian forces shall operate together with Swedish forces and form a Norwegian-Swedish engineering transport battalion. In this context, the Progress Party would stress that the operation in Sudan, if undertaken, will be a very risky operation. The challenges in Sudan are enormous, both safety and health-related, for the participating forces. Especially dangerous is the pattern of conflict between the warring parties in the area. The use of child soldiers is the highest in the world. The party fears that Norwegian forces may face situations that have not been foreseen in such a mission. I am thinking especially of meeting an enemy who is largely made up of child soldiers. The Progress Party is opposed to Norway sending forces to Sudan. This is due not only to the nature of the operation but also to the resource base of the Defence in general. We agree with the Government that participation in military operations abroad is an integral and important part of Norwegian security and defence policy. Of course, the progress party is concerned that Norway has to support our allies and be positive to commitment where it is desirable. But we are engaged in foreign engagements of this type of exposure, which must reflect the actual resources of the Defence. As mentioned above, defence has undergone major upheavals in recent years. Economically, too, the defence has been reduced in terms of activity and organisational size. One result of the changes that have been made is that today we are in a situation where the total strength of the defence, including the civilian, command and guardian, is approximately. Thirty thousand. The persons liable for protection initially amount to approx. 10 000, the civil approx. 6800, in which case the remainder shall constitute officers and temporary civil servants. This also seems to be a very high number based on the signals given regarding downboarding. The Progress Party has expressed, both in this Chamber and elsewhere, concerns about the size of the Defence Organisation. As we see it, there are today major challenges with crews in relation to foreign exposures. We believe it's one too ambitious foreign exposure it's added up to by the Government. It is good military lessons that long-term operations require rolling capacity for the exposure. In practice, to set a strength of 100 men, you have to have a force well of 500 soldiers in total. The Progress Party cannot see that, in today’s resource situation, defence can take on more foreign tasks beyond a smaller task of shorter duration. We are concerned that the defence must now have a calm and predictable framework, so that the defence can meet its tasks in an appropriate way. In this context, the Progress Party believes that the defence personnel resources should be focused on the construction and development of our national defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1764	The government, through its promises in the election campaign, has created great expectations for the education and research budget it will present tomorrow. The languages of the throne didn't give a lot of signals about what we're waiting for. If that's the case, as Huitfeldt's representative claims, that you really want to bet on the school, why was the education budget the only thing that got lower by the new government than it had under the Bondevik II government? It's disappointing that you don't have ambitions. The previous government revolutionized school life in Norway in many ways. It focused again on knowledge, quality and demands at school. It created transparency about the results in school. No one liked what was revealed about quality, but it gave us the opportunity to correct errors, for the benefit of the student. There has been convincing evidence that the single school had major challenges, and even the Labour Party has now come to admit it. No country spends more resources in school than Norway. There is a lot of talk about Norway as a knowledge nation, but we don't have a school that meets these goals. Very many leave Norwegian school without a satisfactory level of basic skills. The school also reproduces social differences. The previous government took this over. It created and adopted the promise of knowledge, an ambitious lift for the school. SV’s Øystein Djupedal showed in the election campaign his understanding of the problem through his statement at the SV’s national meeting in April 2005: ‘Think how happy we will be when we get rid of the right school!’ It is the same man who is now the Minister of Knowledge and who ensures that the Knowledge promise will be implemented on every occasion. But what kind of knowledge lift is he talking about, and where is the commitment? Does he have any ownership of this besides realizing that the promise of knowledge is so positive out there among people and among teachers that he cannot avoid implementing it? Does he have ambitions for school, or does it become an ambitious promise of knowledge? The promise of knowledge is a reform aimed at revisiting individual life in Norwegian school and at providing a school that promotes individual opportunities. It is a reform that gives the teacher the freedom of method and confidence to achieve some knowledge goals that are much clearer than before. Life on average does not exist, only individual students — all with their individual assumptions and challenges. Should the school be able to solve the problems, you need to have transparency about the development and the results in school. Should the teacher, the school owner, the parents and society know otherwise if the school plays the intended role, the control tool must be in place. The signals from the Minister of Knowledge are not good here. He refuses the necessary transparency, and he resists specific demands. That might not be so weird. SV was not particularly concerned with results and learning outcomes before the choice. Most of it could be compensated by other skills. It must have cost the Workers' Party a lot to leave the Ministry of Knowledge to SV. That the representative Huitfeldt used most of his posts to attack the Right shows just that. The costs are made visible by the fact that the Workers' Party has now presented a school policy programme which must be viewed as a type of opposition policy to their own Minister of Knowledge, in the light of the programme on which they are elected. The working party comes partly behind in the Right Footsteps, but the steps are not being done in full. There is a lack of focus on quality and requirements. Everyone adopts the Knowledge Lift, but in the Red-Green Knowledge Lift, the level of ambition is lowered. That's not what the medicine Norwegian school needs. The free schools were an important part of developing the school. Public schools should appreciate the incentive that a small alternative represents. It stimulates innovation and sharpening. The government announces in the throne that it will promote changes in the law on high school. The free schools and the students have no reason to rejoice. The universities, colleges and research are probably waiting for tomorrow with intense tension. Much of the government budget has already leaked to the press, but there has not been a single word about higher education and research. It's a deafening silence about investment for the future. It's not a good sign. We have a national objective of that 3 pst. GDP shall be used for research purposes. The last overview I saw showed a decline from the previous year. The sum of the reduction in the Research Fund last year and the cuts in industrial research in the revised national budget means that more than DKK 1 billion will be compensated before the target is reached. On 23 September 2005, Øystein Djupedal said to the Evening Post about the new government: «What we want to do we get to do». In other words, money is not the problem, it is the will it stands for. «I was too restless to sit on the school bench I want quick results. [[...]] I'll get it here too," he said to the Research Forum No. 10 for 2005. Nearly a year has passed. Tomorrow we will see what restlessness has resulted in. Is reality so easy to deal with, or has reality taken back the minister of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1787	The UN is in particular the world's most important organisation. It's almost impossible to imagine what the world would look like today without the UN, without the UN's normative activities, without all the UN organizations and without the UN as a meeting place in New York, Geneva, and elsewhere, where the world's conflicts are resolved and resolved. Hardly any country around the world has a government that so resolutely supports the UN. I want to go so far as to say that this government loves the United Nations. But the UN is nothing else. It's none other than ourselves. As Dag Hammarskjöld once said, the UN is a drawing that we make ourselves. That's why this government has very clearly responded and said that we respect and hold the UN high, and the Prime Minister has undertaken the task of leading a commission to look at the further development of the United Nations. However, we also call on the United Nations to improve and, at the same time, to provide support for an improvement in the United Nations. Norway is not a little boy or a little girl in the United Nations. We are the sixth or seventh largest contributor to the UN in absolute numbers. In several UN organisations, we are among the three largest contributors, and we are by all likelihood – without my having checked it – the largest contributor to the UN per. population of any country in the world. Then we must also be allowed to interfere in how the United Nations evolves. This is the background to something that was on the news today, but goes back to January, that I wrote a letter to the leaders of three of the most important UN organisations – the United Nations Children’s Organisation, the United Nations Development Fund and the UN Population Fund. The contents of the letter were two-sided: we want to enable these organisations to plan in the long term, so we give an indication that they can count on further support from Norway and how that support, with the Storting's consent of course, will be stepped up in the years to come. It allows these organisations to plan, structure and operate some kind of long-term activity, as any enterprise or country would otherwise wish to do. But of course, it is also true that if the same organisations do not contribute to reforming the UN system and do not accept to work in line with what we regard as significant Norwegian positions, they have to count on less support, even substantial cutbacks. Norway cannot support all UN organisations without going in and influencing them in the right direction and pointing out what we do not like and do not accept. This has been well received by these organisations. Several of them have followed up this letter with continuous reporting. I have had a number of meetings with the leaders of the organisations, where they have seen positively that Norway, who, let's call it, owns the UN and is an active owner of the organisation. So what is the content of our demands, our desire to influence, and what are they going to do? That's three things. The first is that they must be willing to reform. It is today that in many countries, for example. in Africa, there are 15 to 20 different UN organisations, large and small. They each have their own budget, each their own fleet, each their own management, each their own offices, each their own budgets and each their own organization, and they often deal with overlapping questions. We want them to go together, cooperate, and have a more consistent management. So they could use the same number of dollars or more from Norway, but in a more efficient way. In other words, we want to stimulate reform of the system itself. The second is that from the Norwegian side, we should not be disappointed to see the UN as a political arena for political struggle. That's what every other country in the United Nations is doing. And in that arena, we have to go into our Norwegian positions and basic values, like, for example. the question of equality and women's participation, and women's issues in general. It is something that is now widely held in the Norwegian population, and are values we must be proud to be able to go out and say that we stand for this. Then it is reasonable to ask the UN organisations to work much more actively than they do today to strengthen their women's profile, to see women, who are the poorest in most countries, and to get more women into their systems. The fact that Norway helps by saying that we will support you more if you go in such a direction, and less if you don't go in such a direction, is identical to what everyone else does, but we have to start doing more than we have done before. And then I'd like to say, of course, it's also a goal, but it's not the most important thing, to get more Nordics into the UN organizations. When Norway is such a large contributor, it is reasonable that there is also a significant number of Norwegians working there, because they want to bring Norwegian attitudes and values into these organisations and thus contribute to the impact we want on the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1806	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1809	The party looks forward with excitement to the critical dialogue of the Council of State with the United Nations, and thinks it is a good input. The criticism that has emerged against the government's development policy, as far as I have seen today, has gone on the lack of follow-up of 1 pst. of GNI for assistance that we might see tomorrow. I just want to assure the Council of State that not the entire opposition is behind that criticism. This summer, Bob Geldof came to Norway with a call to take responsibility for setting up a trade agreement between Africa, the United States and the EU, recognising that trade is a suitable tool for Africa as well. And, as he says, Africa must act out of poverty. Will the Council of State accept this call and the idea? And does he intend to take an initiative to establish a framework for such a broad trade agreement with Africa in the centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1820	As Morten Höglund points out, I have also noticed some criticism from some opposition parties. They believe this government will not achieve goals they themselves have not achieved. The interesting thing about it is that it reminds me a lot of a student who gets the school grade four, and goes to the guy who got five and says, "You couldn't, because you didn't get six." Now let's see tomorrow if what this government is doing is to live with for everyone in the Storting. I accept that the Progress Party has a completely different view. But I think the rest of the opposition parties should be reasonably satisfied that we're going to do this as well as they did in this area. And otherwise, to Geldof: It's a very important challenge. I intend to talk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has the main responsibility for the WTO and therefore trade issues, to see if there is room for new Norwegian initiatives, and if there is anything more we can do to help Africa do more. The big problem today is that the poorest countries actually have no products to sell for which there is a real market in the West. It's not customs that hinder trade, but ten thousand other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1827	I think it is deserving that one will step up the concreteisation of the demands of the UN on what one expects for the effort that one contributes to. We already know that there are a number of things that you need to deal with, whether it is the reform itself, the content of it, or the process of reform, that has stopped a lot. There is also an evaluation of what is actually achieved from results. And it's about how to integrate "mainline" and theme like women's rights, environment and several things. Is not the Council of State concerned that when you first give the grant and set the requirements afterwards, it can be perceived, I don't say naive, but as a bit simple from the Norwegian side, and you might have to make the demands first, and get some commitment on the will to implement and fulfill them, before you increase the allocation, as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1834	The three UN organisations that have received an indication from Norway about what they could expect to get in the next few years, which is an increase, are three of the organisations that we believe – and which we have good reason to believe – are capable of and who want to reform. So there's a double in this. They can expect more money from Norway provided they follow their own promises. Then we go into a dialogue with them to see if they're doing this. And I cannot agree more: evaluation is absolutely crucial. Evaluation is not just something we should do in relation to the United Nations. We will do so in relation to our own assistance – continuously. If we see things going bad, we're going to cut it out, and then take the resources over where we get good results. It must apply in the United Nations, and it must apply otherwise. This could be done, for example, by: This means that we are dropping support for some UN organisations that we do not seem to deliver in terms of reform and that do not deliver real results for the poor of the world. Then we give more to others who deliver. One concrete thing we have changed our support for is the World Food Programme. I could possibly come back to that in the next line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1841	Trontals are little about development policy. And with the vague response of the Prime Minister earlier today – The Government should at least know that the Christian People’s Party will press for the aid goal to be achieved. I am particularly concerned about Africa, which has many of the world's poorest countries. Because of sky-high oil prices, they have received billions of additional expenditure, while Norway has received billions of additional revenues for the same reason. U-country champions, not least in the Christian People's Party and the SV, have therefore wanted a broad strategy for development in Africa and for increased assistance. It was promising that the major acts at the G8 meeting in Gleneagles about a year ago promised to double the aid to just Africa. But Norway too needs to increase aid to Africa. It was a great disappointment, therefore, that the first SV State Council in Solheim last year was to cut off aid to Africa and rather give to the UN, on which Solheim obviously loves to use its entire contribution. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will the Government in the future once again increase Africa's share of Norwegian development aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1851	I cannot at all agree that the Prime Minister gave an unclear answer. On the contrary, I think he gave a very clear commitment that this government should achieve the goal of 1 pst. for assistance, but he won't tell us exactly what tenth we're on tomorrow. That's what all previous governments have done, you're waiting for the budget to be presented to the Stortinget. We want a dialogue and an alliance with the Christian People's Party on these questions. I think it's very nice that the Christian People's Party is a proponent. As I see it, and historically, the two basic foundations of Norwegian development policy, i.e. the domestic anchoring of it, are Kristen-Norge and the values of solidarity of the labour movement. The fact that the two go together in a cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Government in this area is absolutely brilliant. We're going to increase significantly in Africa tomorrow. If it were to lead to a tenth or two or three less in percent, it would have a very small role for the poor of Africa when there is a dramatic increase in the number of dollars to Africa. Let me end by saying that the World Food Programme is an example of an organisation we have put in support of. They have their advantage in crisis management and in starvation, and there we will provide support for them, but not for general food aid, because they have very easily to drive local farmers out of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1863	In the throne speech, the government said that it will bring about a significant increase in the development and maintenance of our road and rail network. And it's a goal to secure broadband for everyone who had to love it. The reason for this is that good transport and communication services are crucial for an efficient and competitive business, for building and for developing across the country. Good communication is an important commitment both for value creation and for the whole country to participate in this value creation. We're going to create, and we're going to divide. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party stood together and got multiple votes, with the Progress Party, for a stronger commitment to transport in connection with the National Transport Plan for 2006-2015. Then we were in opposition. In position, we carry out the planned communication effort. The challenges are different around our country, and therefore the measures must also be varied: increasing investment in road development where it is appropriate, and increasing investment in rail and other public transport where it is most likely. There are major challenges in the transport sector, and summer’s media focus on the road situation has confirmed it. Many years of small promises for the maintenance of roads and the railways have seen their mark on our infrastructure. I have noticed in the debate here today that, among other things. Right says they should really bet on the road. The fact is that two years ago, the Bondevik government had its proposal for a transport plan, which when the Right was included in, just voted down because it was not too ambitious. And as late as the 2006 budget, Right proposed cutting 200 million. kr in road maintenance. But now, according to the Evening Post today, Jern-Erna is to become Asphalt-Erna. There is only one year since the Right was in position to bet on the road. Then they don't use the opportunity at all. The Stoltenberg government is now working with the goal of catching up on the transport sector after the civil government. In 2006, we were already in the process of increasing the permits for transportation by over 800 million. kr in relation to what was proposed by the Bondevik Government. The budget week was evenly distributed between road and rail and between investment and maintenance. The party in the multi-territorial government thus implements a balanced and holistic transport policy with a focus on emerging conditions, environmental considerations and the vision that no one will be killed or life-threatening traffic damage. We have a huge lag on the maintenance of our infrastructure. In the future, we will have to take better care of our roads and our paths. It makes economic sense, and it is important for road safety and the rise in traffic. For example, we increased the permits for asphaltification by 186 million. kr in 2006. It makes sense to manage capital. We want to increase the investment in maintenance significantly in the future. We can't just start new projects without taking care of the road and rail capital we have. The Stoltenberg government is responsible for a different policy from the previous government also in the field of transport. This applies, for example: the view of privatisation and postponing competition. The government has stopped the launch of the Railway Agency and its tasks so that their organisations can concentrate their attention and resources on building and operating the railway system in our country. We believe that privatisation is a derailment, literally, in the process of creating attractive, time-consuming, environmentally sound and good railway solutions for people and goods. There is a need to improve the road network across the country. If we are to trigger the potential for value creation, we need to improve on the secondary highway network and the county road network as well as on the main roads. There is also a need for additional investment in transport solutions for public transport. For example, you will open in the autumn. The T-banner in Oslo is a project that has received substantial government contributions. The government is also working on introducing what is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration, i.e. a national youth discount on public transport for school and students. Similarly, one of us is working on developing broadband across the country. Here, money is being given to implement measures, and this approach may prove to be very important to our country and our districts in the future. The government has seen high targets in the Soria Moria Declaration when it comes to the movement effort, and it is now delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1889	In the policy platform of the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government of the Voluntary Policy states: ‘By voluntary work, people are activated into meaningful and socially beneficial activities. Voluntary organisations make significant financial contributions to society through service production and extensive unpaid efforts. Signs in time indicate that voluntary activities are changing. General modernisation processes and general individualisation in society put the voluntary sector under pressure. In order to ensure the recruitment of active and trusted persons, it is necessary to reduce the administrative work of organisations and to free up more time for activity.» Nice words, to which of course we in the Advancement Party can join. In addition, the Government lists that it will be in favour of setting up a voluntary register that will allow for a simpler regulatory framework with regard to taxes, VAT and employers’ taxes. The possibility of a permanent system of VAT compensation will be explored, and greater respect for the specific nature of organisations will be sought by reducing the use of project funds. In addition, it mentions the need to adapt legislation and grant schemes to the current organisational structure, and a review of the allocation of Freefonds – all of which are supported by the Progress Party and which also has broad support in Freedom Norway. These are nice words, but then there are questions about implementation. With its gambling policy, with its attack on the vending machines, the Government has deducted thousands of teams, associations and organisations from considerable funds. Many sports teams and many associations have had 300,000–400,000 dollars in income, and this represents a lot of activity. For a football field e.g. is 300,000 kroner very much, and gives maybe activity in four, five, six, seven, eight teams in the junior department. This gives us great challenges as to how Norwegian volunteering will finance the future. This cannot be covered in beautiful words, with investigations, with discussions, with assessments and with promises of a volunteer message that may come once in the New Year. A degression in relation to the slot machine monopoly decision and that monopoly may not have any effect on those who are really gambling addicts: it looks like you've had the idea that automatic monopoly leads to no gambling addicts. We know that although we have wine monopoly in Norway, we still have alcohol dependence — alcoholics always get alcohol. It is reasonable to assume that those who are addicted to gambling will be able to find illegal games on the Internet, in mobile or in secret clubs for which they can make use. I read in yesterday's edition of the Friend of the Fatherland that there is now a gambling market on the Internet for a total of 75–80 billion kroner. To believe – as the new conservatives in the United States – that you have to be able to regulate the Internet, I think, is unrealistic. Instead, we need to focus more on psychiatry and treatment. From Voluntary Norway, the government's opinions on a voluntary register are supported. The establishment of a voluntary register may also support the Progress Party. But what's more interesting is what's actually going to be in that register. A voluntary register is not interesting until it leads to real economic simplification and a lower tax burden on voluntary organisations – and before we do anything about the VAT problem. The injustice to which Willowness-Norway is subjected in this connection costs NOK 1 billion, which then has to be paid in another way, in the form of gifts or in the form of duty hours. It is also the case of non-governmental organisations that continue to pay employers’ contributions. The Progress Party is also in favour of looking at grant schemes, but there is a need to intervene with the counties and municipalities, which manage many of these schemes. Many of us at Stortinget have been at conferences this summer with Freedom Norway. There has been a call for more non-discrimination with regard to the lottery activities. The state has provided itself with a great deal of advantages in the competition with voluntary organisations, resulting in less income for volunteers. On the part of the Progress Party, we believe that we should also look at the tax deduction system introduced by the previous government. In the view of the Progress Party, this mechanism should be extended to several types of organisations and the tax deduction should be increased. Finally, we have a good spirit in Norway. We have to pursue a policy where we build under it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1918	In the throne, it was said: ‘The government will use the whole country and will work to keep the main features of the pattern of residence.’ It sounds promising. In the districts, much is formed from the basis for well-being both in the districts and in the urban areas. Agriculture, fisheries, tourism, energy, transport and other industrial policies are particularly important for the whole of the country. The same applies to the ability of municipalities to organise and solve problems. The Stortningsbericht «Heart for the whole country. On the subject of regional and regional policy, there are many fine intentions that are entirely in line with the Christian People's Party. It is necessary to implement a regional policy cap to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, use the whole country and reverse the relocation flow. It's a good center policy. Only when the state budget is presented tomorrow will we see if the government has the ability to realise the intentions. Then we will see whether the Government prioritises more money for important welfare services in the municipalities and more money for the hospital sector, so that we avoid a severe decline in local hospitals, as the Minister of Health warns. Worst of all, we can end up with specialised hospitals instead of local hospitals. Furthermore, we will see whether the Government prioritises a strong increase in road and other infrastructure resources, a power cap in the case of municipal food and other development funds, and money to follow up the Bondevik II government’s growth message Culture and industry. Fish have been the basis for coastal settlement and business for impenetrable times. In the fisheries sector, the Red-Greens announced a strong policy change in the election campaign. What did we get? Yes, a so-called rapid-working sample to assess whether the measures announced in the Soria Moria Declaration were feasible in fisheries. We have had a year’s ‘fisheries policy on hold’, which has caused considerable concern in the industry. In the meantime, the launch of a district quota system was announced, which has encountered considerable resistance both in the Fisheries Team and in the Coastal Fisheries Team. Fishing for the district quota was scheduled to start on 1 October, but so far no one has seen anything about it. I quote from the Fiskeribladet on 3 October: "We don't know anything, nor have we heard anything. There are no regulations and no application form, so we ask the fishermen to wait. That's what the Directorate of Fisheries said in the three northernmost states.'Sunday should have started. Then the question to the Minister for Fisheries is: What has gone wrong? The Structural Committee has presented its position, with a small majority of allowances limited in time. We are waiting in excitement for what is going to be the Government's conclusion, but here too, the Fiskers are very critical of course changes. That is why the Minister for Fisheries has every reason to listen to the words of Grand President Thorbjørn Jagland during the solemn opening. I quote: ‘As elected representatives, we should be even better at listening and knowing the people on the pulse.’ In the Christian People's Party, we will place great emphasis on what the fisheries organisations say, and we will base a total assessment of the value creation on the sea and land sides for our final position. In the context of the globalisation of the Northern Region Communication last spring and of our governance plan, there was a broad consensus that the opportunities for the future can be found in the north, if we only meet the challenges in a good way. The Minister of Foreign Affairs went very high on the track and created great expectations in the north. For the time being, these words have generally only been used – but now we will see concrete action in budget lines and in the promised action plan. In the Christian People's Party, we expect progress in negotiations with Russia on the divider line and on the management of resources in the Barents Sea. We expect a rapid national clarification on the important fisheries policy issues that are causing so much unrest in the fishing industry. We also expect the oil and gas activity in the Barents Sea to lead to sustainable jobs on land. We also require landings in connection with any new oil and gas findings, and we expect a strong commitment to knowledge and technology development in the country. Finally, there are many fine words in the Soria Moria Declaration that the new government sees the northern regions as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. The census repeats that ‘north areas are a strategic focus of the Government’. These are promising words for the continent, and we hope the words are now being translated into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1969	The representative of Sahl will get an answer tomorrow on the big bet of the government on the north areas, but he doesn't have to worry. The representative had a big regional policy post, which I think was good in many areas. But this government with the Workers' Party has done some important things. I have to refer to what we have done in the year we have behind us: The reintroduction of a differentiated employer's fee was a very important job lifting in District Norway. The last government didn't. Increased commitment to transport and broadband development also makes it much easier for people to live and build in the districts. So I want to remind the representative Sahl of what Stortinget actually did with the previous transport plan: the majority sent it back. That was the last government. The reorganisation of Avinor – was it a successful project? An alarm response was received after the notification of concerns. [[The President clubs]] Was the policy of the Christian People's Party successful in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1978	The President would remind you that the line has to be kept within a 1-minute period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1981	The previous government was running an active district policy. It was the previous government that presented the northern division that the new government is now very much following up. What I've pointed out is that in the first year there have been many fine words. The Minister of Foreign Affairs went very high on the track. It was almost as if the part-line negotiations were coming to an end. We see that it's locked. We see that Norwegian fishing industry and salmon production have had major problems selling salmon to Russia. This government has not been able to sort it out. With regard to the participation of the Christian People's Party in the previous government, we have nothing to be ashamed of in relation to district policy. With regard to the differentiated employer's fee, it was our government that provided the basis for the negotiated result from which the new government is now allowed to harvest. We have nothing to be ashamed of, but we have great expectations of the good words that the new government has come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1988	My line goes to the transport politician Sahl from the Christian People's Party. It is tempting to ask a representative from the Christian People's Party who is working on transportation, whether even the Christian People's Party has become more concerned with asphalt after they come out of the government position, as we have seen that the Right has become. If there is to be light in the houses, we must have gone. A lot of people are waiting for a better way. Summer has shown that roads in Norway have a desirable standard. There must be strong leanness and strong lifting to move forward. What is the Christian People's Party's recipe for a strong uplift in the road sector? One possibility, as the representative certainly remembers, is the proposal for interest-free and non-debt loans to county councils to do something about maintenance on county roads, which the representative agreed to vote down in June. There is now a new proposal from the Progress Party on an infrastructure fund that the Christian People's Party can now vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e1996	The Christian People's Party has always focused heavily on culture. Of course, the Christian People's Party also wants more asphalt on the roads, but the Christian People's Party has a more realistic understanding of a budgetary process than I feel the Progress Party has. The Progress Party has a budget in addition to that of all the other parties on the Stortinget. There is a reason to commend the Government if it is exactly what budgetary leakages are all about, that we are getting a raise in the transport sector of about NOK 2 billion when the budget is presented tomorrow. The Christian People's Party will join in and follow it up. So we're going to present our own budget in a month's time. We will then show that we also want a strong commitment to the transport sector – not just on asphalt, but on a comprehensive picture of transport, both on collective solutions and road solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2003	I am very pleased that the representative Jan Sahl from the Christian People's Party is very clear about the irresponsible policy that the Progress Party – their former budgetary cooperation partners – stands for. That means that the Christian People's Party is in the process of positioning itself in relation to the values this government stands for, pointing towards more welfare, more to community and not least to taking responsibility in climate policy, which we know the Progress Party does not take. Now we are not going to go through budgetary leakage, but there is no doubt that this government is going to be spending a lot on transportation. Jan Sahl and the Christian People's Party can enjoy it tomorrow. My question is: is it now that there is a clear separation in one way, that the Christian People's Party chooses a different profile from the irresponsible policy that we see the Progress Party is leading?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2012	The Christian People's Party has been and is still a center party. We've been in the center since we're in a minority in this period, and we're not in a government context either. That means that as a center party, we have connect points to both sides. Of course, the Christian People's Party will exploit it for everything it's worth, to get through to our policies. We realize that when we're a small party and in minority, we have to have good relations to both sides. We're going to be a sharp critic of the government's policy, along with the opposition where we find it necessary, and where we agree. At the same time, we will also have clear links with the Government in order, if possible, to make some of the things we stand for, in compromise with the Government. The Christian People's Party has no other course today than what we have had tradition of, as a Christian Democratic Party placed in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2020	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2023	The government is changing Norway. In almost one year, we have changed the course through clear value choices. – No revolution, as it was said here before today, but a clear new course. The opposition has agreed to use this year's debate to say that there is no difference between the previous government and this. Well, then we're going to have to use this debate to show that they're wrong. We are proud to have contributed to a historic lift for school, for care for the elderly, for nursery schooling and for local cultural life. The total revenue of Kommune-Norway for 2006 and 2007 will be DKK 14 billion. That's a lot of money. It's going to be teachers of, it's going to be home helpers of, it's going to be kindergartens of, and it's going to be the local cultural activity of. I also hope that there will be a lot of capacity for municipalities to do a better job in terms of becoming a first line in terms of business development. We have turned pessimism into optimism in Kommune-Norway. It's a new course. We're not done, and it says in the Soria Moria statement that we shouldn't be done now. We will be done in 2009 to find the balance between tasks and money in Kommune-Norway. But it's a new course. We're running a new give for District Norway. From 1 January 2007, we reintroduce the main regional policy instrument, differentiated employer’s fee, in large parts of the country. It provides a tax advantage of about DKK 5.4 billion for industry in the districts. In addition, we have strengthened the regional grant to about 150 municipalities in the districts, we have an increased focus on district-oriented instruments, including municipal food funds, which were mentioned here in place, and I can tell you that the growth of regional policy instruments will be great until next year. Overall, all of this means a regional policy boost. We give people back the freedom to live where they want in the country, a freedom that many have been deprived of in the later years. We're talking about a significant shift in political direction. Every day, the government builds Norway. We have faster paces, ambitions and bets on the road, rail and broadband than our predecessors. We got more bets on the way in three weeks last fall than the Progress Party managed on three budget settlements. And still, the Storting doesn't know the numbers for 2007, but everyone who's busy with transportation can be happy for tomorrow. We take responsibility for future generations. Therefore, the Government has prioritised a new course for forward-looking energy. We are raising the level of alternative energy through a fund of 20 billion kroner. We have launched an ambitious project to establish a value chain for CO2 management. We need pollution-free gas power plants in place. It's a new course. No one can say anything else. Nordic policy was mentioned by previous speakers. We are proud that we have finally managed to put the northern areas on the agenda in a completely different way from what was presented by the previous government in the big news that was mentioned. Everybody notices that. It's a new course. In European policy, we now have a government that dares to take the fight with the system. Case-law of the Court of Justice It's a new course. That's how I could still have and still, I'd have had a little longer speaking time. The Soria Moria Declaration did not announce revolution, but it announced a new course in areas that are important to people's everyday lives. The Soria Moria Declaration is the government's basic document. That's our lead star. It shall be implemented in four years. And we're in good hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2064	Over the last few days and now that we have listened to the Council of State, and with all the leaks that have come, we get the impression that the sun will shine on Kommune-Norway for the rest of the year. The rhetoric «new course, new course» we have heard from the Minister of State and we have heard a positive rhetoric from the Prime Minister. Will the local economy be much, much better? Will the challenges for Kommune-Norge disappear? Then there is something that is not right here: 10,000 new annual works in the care sector, full child care coverage and an IA agreement that will cost municipalities a lot of money. This isn't where the money goes, and you don't have to be a math school to understand it. My question is: what should local politicians and local authorities-Norway down priorities when they get the bill for all these measures imposed by the Government on the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2073	Then tomorrow's the state budget. And then we're going to go into the math a little bit more closely. But what I can say is that in 2006 we have made a significant uplift for Kommune-Norway – we are now here [[measures arm]] All the problems in Kommune-Norge will not be solved in 2007. But we've said that we need more than two years to take back the violent aftermath that we had in Norwegian municipalities. We need two more years, and then we're going to measure whether we've achieved what we've said in Soria Moria, that's a balance between the tasks that municipalities have, and the money that they have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2082	We now see the contours of the government's regional reform. The vision is not beautiful, even the closest followers are now asking for the reform to be postponed. It is worth noting that the Council of State did not mention this reform in a word in its introduction. They dreamed of five large district patrols that were going to battle with the state force, but now they see that the mountain is about to be born over ten gray mice. Professor Selstad says that the region lacks legitimacy and is an elite project. The county council of new themes has no uprising. A poll in the north shows that we have hardly ever faced a reform that has so little support in the people. The local newspapers, which often mirror the popular opinion, now ask the Government to stop the work – from the Harstad Official Journal, Trønder-Avisa to the Glamdalen. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she is now willing to listen and thus start a democratic debate on the division of tasks, or whether she will use the government's scarce majority to push through an elite reform that does not bring about population integration, leading to forced labour mobility and significant centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2091	The work on administrative reform is significant, demanding and important. What I can guarantee the representative, Höie, is that I listen every day to people all over the country from all parties, including the Right. The positions are varying in all parts, including – I note – the right. I'm going to be able to relate to that. It is quite obvious that we should have the capacity to strengthen democracy. This is not just a reform of governance; it is a major reform of democracy. We disagree with the Right that we only need two levels in Norway, we think we need three. We have to live with the disagreement between the parties. But we want to strengthen democracy, we want to move power closer to people. Then we're dependent on three levels. The right-hand model will lead to a government in Norway. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2100	The Christian People's Party is pleased with more money for Kommune-Norway. The Christian People's Party believes in local democracy and wants there to be an economic space in each municipality so that they can do their own priorities and govern their own development in addition to fulfilling important welfare tasks. It will be exciting to see if the Government is able to follow up what it has said in the Soria Moria Declaration. Is there going to be an obligating escalation plan? And will the funds that come with the state budget, which we are told about tomorrow, be able to provide room for 2,000 new places when one has to pay for salary increases, when one has to pay for increased costs of health insurance, etc.? Don't you have a little high ambition on the part of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2108	Unfortunately, we have high ambitions for Kommune-Norway! I mean we should have. We say nothing less than that we want to make Municipality-Norway shine. We say that because it's wrong to say that we have a welfare state in Norway. What we really have is welfare municipalities. If people are to receive the services they need in everyday life, we depend on securing municipalities an economy that enables them to deliver a quality of services that we think are worthy people. The problem is not that we're stretching ambitions too high. We're going to have high ambitions. Then we're supposed to live up to what we've said. The 10,000 new years of care and care are well within reach during this period. We're going to get there, as we said in Soria Moria, in 2009, we're going to be able to say that there's a balance between the local authorities' problems and the money they have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2124	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2127	The government and the red-green majority will have an active fight against crime. We are in the process of implementing a change in course for more security. The objective is clear: better prevention, clarification, faster response and better rehabilitation must be achieved. This is why we have strengthened the police, the judiciary and the criminal justice system, as well as increased municipal budgets to strengthen the important prevention work in the municipalities. We've built up where it's torn down, given room to bet on school, strengthen child protection, reopen closed youth clubs – measures that we know are important to prevent young people from starting a criminal racetrack. But not only have we introduced a change of course in justice policy and prevention policy. We've also created a pace shift. Last year, the Minister of Justice promised that we would build 100 new settlement sites to reduce the pay queue. We're breaking the promise. As of today, the day before the state budget is presented, 250 new settlements are in place – after one year. Now that we've replaced the yellow leader's shirt with the red-green, we see the results. The rescue line's on its way down. It shows that we're on track. We're proud of that, but we're not satisfied yet. We're not until we've fulfilled what we've promised in Soria Moria to remove the restitution queue during the landfill period. In recent years, we have been living in an unsustainable situation, where those waiting to enter Norwegian prisons are almost as many as those waiting to be released. This weakens people’s sense of justice, and the confidence in criminal policy is further weakened when many who are in line commit new crimes. We've got a vicious circle where people don't get a job because they're waiting to make a judgment, commit new crimes, don't have money to live in, and hopelessness tends to lead to a worsening drug problem as well. That's this situation we're now going to get out of through the construction of new shelters. We will also take several other measures, such as improving the efficiency of the transfer of foreign prisoners to continued residence in the home country. We will also consider alternative responses to some crimes. The government’s overall commitment to criminal justice is lacking in Norway. We have also strengthened the content of compensation during our first year of government: the school offer has increased, more books have become available in prison libraries, health care and, not least, drug treatment have been strengthened, so that prisoners who have completed the zone are better equipped to face life outside the walls. The reduction in the housing queue and the overall effort to strengthen rehabilitation also lead to more police force. In addition, we've strengthened the police by 100 million. and increased efforts to combat recriminalism and economic crime. We will give better protection to those who are subjected to violence or threats of violence. Therefore, the perpetrator of violence must be more accountable to a system of reverse violence alarms. Violation of a restraining order may result in the forced use of an alarm warning the police as a threater approaches the person to be protected. This shifts the burden from the victim to the one who actually exerts the violence. The government has also strengthened the Court so that we can have more rapid criminal proceedings. This last punk is especially important to the victims of crime. We can't live with a situation where the victim, for example, rape must wait up to five years before the case has been brought to an end in legal proceedings. It is not morally right to allow people who are subjected to gross crimes to be subjected to such a burden. This is why the consultation proposal that has now been sent out on speeding up criminal proceedings is also an important breakthrough in strengthening the situation of victims in the Norwegian judicial system. By preventing criminals from committing new crimes while waiting to zone, by better rehabilitation in prisons and by investing in the police, we are reducing the violence and crime in society. By changing the law and giving the courts better conditions to ensure the position of the victims, we now see a clear change in course and a change in the pace of justice policy. This will benefit the entire community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2153	The comments to the census have largely gone on that it is a little surprising. I do not entirely agree with that characteristic. At least I was very surprised that the level of ambition this government expressed in the throne, in important areas, was extremely low. The government prefers to use the term "multiple" around itself. Probably it does so in order to bring to light the power and ability of the Government to implement the government's policy. The question that we could expect to focus on in the throne would be what the "multiple government" is going to use this power for. Instead, the Prime Minister came to the Stortinget today and told us that further division could be expected in the ranks of the government parties in the future. The government has promised to deploy the necessary resources to ensure a good and comprehensive knowledge policy for the country. The Government has even set up a Ministry of Knowledge, which is responsible for the knowledge building from kindergarten to the end of the education cycle. The party of progress is pleased with that. The Ministry of Knowledge shall facilitate the living conditions of ‘after oil’, as it is popularly said — both through knowledge building, school and research. In order to strengthen the primary school, the Government will, according to the census, present a proposal for amendments to the Law on Secondary Education. It's not a particularly ambitious goal in the field of school. How will a change in the law strengthen the common school? Probably the government believes to say that it should make it almost impossible to start fresh oils after the law review. By common school, it probably means the public owned school. But how can it be said, or at least suggested, that the colleges we have today are not as much of the common school as the public schools owned? Even knowledgeable SVs have come to this recognition through research work and studies. One of them is senior lecturer Svein Erik Tuastad. The government tells us in the guise that the implementation of the promise of knowledge is solid. That is what the Progress Party believes is good. But that reform has been initiated by the Bondevik II government, not by the Stoltenberg II government. Nothing new and ambitious in it either. So there was nothing about important goals in order to improve school performance or how to achieve school order, increase learning outcomes and a greater degree of adapted education for both strong and less strong students. Through higher education, there is room for considerable investment, in the opinion of the Progress Party, both in increased numbers of scholarships, places of study, funding for studies, construction programmes and much more. Here the Government does not present anything, except that it announces an evaluation of the Quality Reform. In the field of research, does the real promise of the Ministry of Knowledge and the ambitions of the coming year come? That's the previous collection around the goal of 3 pst. of gross domestic product shall be used for research efforts by 2010. Can we wait for some rapprochement plan or something more binding than program statements here? We have been waiting in suspense, and indeed, the Government notes that research efforts need to be stepped up, not reduced as in 2006. This will be done by linking to the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and Technology. In addition to this, it will also be silent on the research side, which the state budget will probably confirm tomorrow with further strength. So there is no hope of a better bet on basic education, no hope of a better bet on higher education, nor is there any strange thing on the research side. Where have knowledge ambitions become one year after the election? It's strange that a government like promised change of direction and further investment in knowledge building ends up with a level of ambition as labyrinth as presented to us in the Common Era. The Prime Minister today informed Stortinget that several schools were being cleaned up, that more teachers were being hired, and that the swimming pools were being filled up as a result of the government's policy. I'm a little bit unsure if there's hold in that statement. The investigation section of the largest size group, commissioned by the Enlarged Party, has examined the data base for the number of swimming pools filled since the government change. No evidence is available per year. September 18th. Neither the Norwegian Federation of Swims, the Federation of Education, nor the Ministry of Culture and the Church have carried out any studies that can confirm what the Prime Minister said today. The Prime Minister also says that municipalities are now spending more money on adding teachers and cleaning up school buildings to a greater extent than before. The NRK's study in April revealed that three out of four principals were able to report that they had not received one more penny for the school's operation. I would therefore like to follow this up and challenge the Prime Minister to be more concrete than to claim the effects of the Government's policy on which there is currently probably no evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2172	I want to present two current media essays – first the news that the Norwegian-supported art academy in Ramallah, Palestine, has been opened. This project is run by artists in Norway and Palestine and supported by cultural resources from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was precisely these Palestinian artists who defended freedom of speech when it burned at its worst after the cartoons. Our government will focus more on cultural cooperation that will strengthen the artistic dialogue across borders, and that is what we are doing in Palestine. But the situation in Palestine also demands that we increase our contribution to humanitarian aid and reconstruction after Israel's brutal war against Gaza this summer, as the Government has proposed to the Grand Duchy now. The firm and hopeless situation in Palestine now requires countries such as Norway to stick to the dialogue with all parties. The second statement was about the US intelligence report on the consequences of the war in Iraq. Unfortunately, as opponents of the war, we got right in that it has led to an increased threat of terrorism, that Iraq has become the main area for the recruitment of Islamists to violent groups. The one-sided belief that weapons can solve the terrorist threats and create democracy is outdated. Conflicts must be resolved politically, said Indonesia's President when he visited Norway recently. Neither in Afghanistan can military contributions be the main solution. According to a thorough report by The Senlis Council, the international community has used ten times more for military purposes in the last five years than for the construction of civil society and humanitarian aid in Afghanistan. This has to be some of the rear carpet because the Taliban and other rebel groups have increased the upswing in the south. Here it is a humanitarian crisis, extreme poverty and famine. Anyone who has read the book ‘The Dragon Runner’ knows how difficult and complex the situation in Afghanistan is and has been for many years. Under this government, in line with the Soria Moria declaration, Norway has increased support to the ISAF forces to contribute to stability and this support is to be continued. At the same time, it is important to state that without the international community having a clear plan, a plan to be followed, for how to create stability and reconstruction of the country, rebuilding civil society, a failure in Afghanistan will occur. The government has, as one of the first in the world, made an action plan for the follow-up to UN Resolution 1325, Women, Peace and Security. This is a resolution that the global women's movement put in place six years ago. In this way, we are involved in strengthening the work of the United Nations and, not least, in giving our contribution to women, who pay the highest price in the event of conflicts, and to the women who will and must participate when the parties meet at the negotiating table. Norway should be the country that always asks when negotiating a lasting peace: where are the women? We have a government that is lifting up environmental aid and stating that everyone has to be guaranteed the right to water. So representatives of civil society met in Bolivia and Bolivia's water minister and our own development minister when he visited the country in the fall. The time has come to get through the right to water internationally, says Canadian Maude Barlow, who, together with Norwegian FIVAS, has worked for this right for a long time. And we agree. 1.2 billion people lack access to clean water. Every year, 2 million, most children, die of diseases caused by poor water and sanitation conditions. It's no coincidence that Bolivia was the venue for this meeting. It was here that the lesson was learned about how the poor people have to pay the price when water resources are privatized in order for international corporations to make money. It is natural that our two countries cooperate, because just Norway under this government has established that water is a common good. This government withdrew from service negotiations in the WTO, and we state that no Norwegian support should be given to programmes requiring liberalisation and privatisation. This has been noted in the solidarity environments internationally, and we must continue to work for more international solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2187	I believe that most people will nod to the fact that the red-green government is pursuing a highly active foreign policy, a foreign policy in which Norway’s voice has been and is clear, not least the clear position on the Lebanon conflict, and with a strong focus on Norway’s interests both in our neighbourhoods, not to say in northern regions, and in international and regional organisations – a capacity for contact that has long been seen by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The government’s Northern Territory policy has also moved a part of foreign policy home. It assumes that Norway has a responsibility for a sea area seven times larger than the mainland and that the resources we manage come largely from the sea. This is where Norway's close strategic challenges lie. The government also sees development policy as an integral part of both our foreign policy and our security policy, as well as the Minister for Development has chiseled out strategies for assistance where clear political leadership and tough priorities are put in place. The focus is on the content of assistance and on the sectors in which Norway has special advantages and knowledge to contribute. These include: environment, energy, equality, peace and reconciliation, as well as a recognition that development policy is not just aid, although of course it is. Contributing to peace, jobs, business development and food production is an essential part of creating sustainable development. On 8 February this year, the Minister for Foreign Affairs launched a new policy towards Africa: Time to think new and strategically about attitudes towards the whole continent.Norway needs a renewed African policy that looks at development and foreign policy in the context.We need strategic alliances with African countries, both on African and other international issues. It also means a greater degree of equivalence, where our African policy is based not only on aid and peace mediation, but also on trade policy, fisheries issues, the organisation of oil extraction and industrial activities, while expanding our cooperation with, among other things. The UN to ensure a coordinated and targeted effort to eliminate poverty and create growth, development and viable societies with good governance. The Foreign Affairs Committee has just returned from China. Among the issues raised in the talks with Chinese authorities was China's expansionary foreign policy, especially in Africa, but increasingly also in Latin America and, of course, in their own neighbourhood. This exposure is not least about their need for stable energy supply to ensure a growth that is now above 10 pst. per 1 % years. The environmental challenges created by this are also a matter for Norway. We focus on being able to use our environmental competence as part of both our foreign policy and our development policy. China’s role as a global player will be a major challenge in international organisations in the future, with increasing self-confidence both within the UN Security Council and vis-à-vis different regional bodies. For example, they play. a growing role in the Middle East. Both here and in Africa, our tracks intersect China's, but not always with the same agenda. There is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. We shall be predictable and recognizable as a nation, both towards allies and in our policies relating to international agreements, human rights, disarmament and an international legal order. At the same time, the red-green government has a different value base than the previous one. It also affects foreign policy. We built our society on the rule of law, on a political system with the capacity for redistribution that combated poverty by investing in education, health and equal opportunities for all. We have a government that believes that the same vision must be at the root of international society as well. Norway shall be a driver of a fairer and more solidarity world. It also means focusing on active work in multilateral organisations. The UN and NATO are the anchor parties for our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2225	The Prime Minister spent a lot of time in his speech stressing that one of the highest priority tasks for the Government is work for everyone. The Prime Minister also stressed that the Government is very concerned about including those who are currently being excluded from the labour market in a very different way. These are intentions I think we can all agree on, and I also record that the government boasts unhindered by the NAV reform, which should be the key to solving these challenges. The first party that pointed to a merger into a major welfare reform was the Progress Party. But I still record that the government has a piece to do in the learning process, and that there is still a potential for improvement in NAV. The figures from the Statistical Centre, published on 1 September, show that the participation of disabled people in work is quite exactly the same as it was five years ago. In fact, there has been a percentage decrease in this period. The last year, after this government took over, there have been 1,000 fewer disabled people at work. In the magazine Velferd nr. 5, 2006, we could read that the main entrance to the new Oslo Labour and Welfare Directorate is not organised for disabled people with wheelchairs. It is also interesting to note the opinions of NAVs responsible at the office in Oslo, Bjørn Kvam. He says: It is possible to get into today's premises with a wheelchair, but then an appointment must be made in advance, so that another entrance can be used. With respect to reporting: with such poor organisation and planning as this, and for which this government is responsible, it is no wonder that there have been fewer disabled people at work. What was supposed to be a welfare seat with one door in, has become in Oslo a door to the disabled, while the disabled have to make an agreement to get into the kitchen road. The Progress Party expects the Government to settle these issues in such a way that its NAV offices become functional for all. It's called "Crontal." ‘Our good economic situation also offers increased opportunities to contribute internationally to the fight against poverty and to a more peaceful world.’ This is well and good! But what worries me is that the government doesn't mention with a word how to fight poverty in your own country. Today, we have over 240 000 Norwegian minimum pensioners living below the poverty line. The fact that a country such as Norway will have a quarter of a million older people on a pension that is below what the Storting itself believes is the poverty line is simply a fluke in view of the economic standard of living we have today. My claim is that the Government has forgotten the past efforts of the minimum pensioners in society. We know that nine out of ten minimum pensioners are women. These are the ones that have taken care of houses, children, nursing parents/nursing parents, so they did the job that is done today by kindergartens, SFOs and home disease care, while their husbands were involved in building the country after the war. Therefore, it is unworthy, at the discretion of the Progress Party, that these do not have a better standard of living. We have to give our minimum pensioners, who have given us the standard of living we have today, a pension they deserve. I am therefore disappointed that the Government is not willing to take concrete action in this area. What the Government has said is that, when the new pension reform is presented, everyone should be guaranteed a guarantee pension equal to the minimum pension of the day. This means that the Government accepts that the minimum pensioners will continue to have income below the poverty line. It is accepted that there will still be a number of minimum pensioners who will not be able to afford to go to the pharmacy and extract essential medicine. They say you should still have a situation where the minimum pensioners can't afford to buy Christmas gifts for their grandchildren, and you can't afford to eat a hot meal every day. Is this what the Government calls solidarity? Is this what we call increased wealth and well-being? In that case, I am proud to belong to a party that goes in the opposite direction, that is willing to take the weak seriously, and that is willing to do something about their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2247	The big media thing of the summer was focused on the big defects, or, literally, the many big holes in our road network. We have now started with the great promise of knowledge in Norwegian school, it was high time. The right considers that we now need to invest even more in the future, and we also need to get a road map. We look forward with excitement to tomorrow's budget. In the road sector, there have been many big words and valid promises. After reading today's newspapers, it seems that many people will be disappointed, but we'll have to wait and see. I hope the best. At least the right has decided, we want a road map, we want investment in the future, and we want to continue to focus on innovation, competition and efficiency in order to get more out of the road map. National Council of Navarsete is asked in the last issue of the Norwegian Railway Association’s magazine ‘Current’ about which decisions she is most satisfied with in the last year. The answer from the Council of State is that she is most pleased to have stopped the launching of competition on the railway. The same issue says that the Gjøvik Railway, which is now under competition, has had a strong growth in traffic and has very satisfied customers. However, the response is symptomatic of the development of the red-green ones. They are satisfied with preventing competition, but have so far not presented any alternative. Many Norwegian roads are too poorly maintained, they are too narrow, they are too swayed, they are too dangerous to traffic. We have to do something about this. When we know that every year 211,000 tonnes of salmon and trout are raised only in North Norway, and that most of this is to be transported by truck to customers across Europe, we know that good roads are a prerequisite for good jobs. When we know that the queue out of Oslo towards the south is so long that it stores queues in Oslo from the west – when I occasionally drive a car home again to Drammen in the afternoon, the queue is further into Oslo, precisely because it is a bottleneck out of Oslo the other way – there are many hours of work that are lost in the queue. We can't have it that way. Workplaces across the whole country need more and better asphalt. In meeting with local business all over the country, the demand is unisonable: we need better roads! So far, the government has not followed up the promises of road betting. That's why the Right proposed $300 million. kr more to go than the Government of revised in spring. That is why the Right Leader has also indicated that the Right will now propose the creation of a road fund of DKK 20 billion, where the return is 800 million. kr per year, should go to new and better maintained roads – not as a substitute for, but as an addition to increased road appropriations. It's investing for the future. In addition to increased appropriations, it is necessary to continue the work started by the previous government. Of course, all road projects have to be submitted, we have to get OPS projects out of the Council's locked drawer. Models are being developed and implemented in all other countries where private actors and public cooperation in the development and operation of new road projects are being developed. This is bad for the red-green anti-competitive policies, but I have a call: don't let ideological skyscrapers prevent positive projects, don't let scepticism against competition make road projects more expensive than necessary. On the right will continue the historic effort of the Bondevik II Government on public transport. We have to bet on the track and the bus, as well as the road. The car queues towards Oslo are huge every day, at the same time there are over 100,000 people commuting in and out of the capital by train every day. That is why the Right will also invest in the future and bet on the railway. We will investigate whether it is possible to replace much of the air traffic in South Norway with a high-speed rail ring. It will be a good environmental policy and, at the same time, a historic commitment to the railways. But at first we have to remove the bottlenecks. New E18 from Asker to Oslo, new route out of Oslo towards Eastfold, while rail from Sandvika to Oslo S and southwards towards Eastfold are able to escape the huge commuter traffic. Good infrastructure for the metropolitan area is important for the whole country. The Oslo area is a bottleneck that needs to be repaired, so it is important that Oslopackak 3 which has been negotiated locally is followed up by the Government. We will invest in the future, we will increase road budgets, we will strengthen maintenance and new construction, we will briefly asphalt more. We can do this within the 800 billion kroner we have in the state budget. It is now possible, the Norwegian economy is in order, and the construction industry will have a lot of available capacity when Snow White and Worm Lange are completed. The right was criticised earlier today, among others. by the Workers' Party spokesman Rudihagen that we want to bet more on the way. In the last period, we granted more money than the government of Stoltenberg I and the Workers' Party provided. Right would have wanted to bet even more, but we kept everything we promised. Nor do we have any problems admitting that we wanted an even more offensive road strike. We're busy with action now, we're busy exploiting the possibilities. Now we have the possibilities, now we have the means. We proposed $300 million. kr more to asphalt in revised. We will continue to escalate, and I also hope that the red-greens will follow this up and at the same time not impede competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2282	Yes, Right does not deny itself. In the opposition, one more time there must be a way out of the well. We've heard it before, but it's been little followed up the times they've been in position. And Jern-erna shall be Asphalt-erna, according to the post of the evening. A road lift will then be relaunched. In fact, in the previous period, the Bondevik government’s proposal to the National Transport Plan, in which the right then was a participant, was voted down by the Stortinget precisely because this was not enough bet. Then Greece refers to the release of money during the revision. But the fact was that when we dealt with the 2006 budget, there was a proposal from the Bondevik government to cut 200 million. kr on road maintenance. In fact, the business community, of which Greece is busy, and the motorist and others who transport on collective transport, are happy that we were the ones who got a majority for these cases, and not the Bondevik government. That's why I ask Greece if he's also happy that it was just the opposition that got multiples?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2293	The President will remind you that speaking time is up to 1 minute in the case of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2297	I understand that Rudihagen has to use a lot of words to get to the point. They haven't presented a budget yet, so we'll see tomorrow when it comes, if the promises that have been made are respected. I want to insist that the previous government actually fulfilled what was NTP. That was our starting point at that time. But I also said in my post, and I'd like to take self-criticism, I, on behalf of both the party Right and others, that we could have done more on the way. But at the same time, it has to be said that the most important job for the previous government was to get the economy organized. And we've certainly got that. There's so much new activity created, there's so much growth in employment now, there's even more need to get on the road. This has been recognized by the Right. We've said we'll do it. We'll follow it up with a road fund, we'll follow it up with increased ordinary appropriations, we'll bet more on asphalting, we'll bet more on maintenance, we'll bet on visionary new projects. Norway needs that. We can afford that, and it'll actually bet on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2304	I think we should start by comforting the representative from the Right that there will be a good budget for transport. Many of the holes that his government made sure it was in the road network, this government will now begin to close. Some of the problem for Greece is: it would have been okay if you had been in opposition all the way, Greece. I've been, and now I'm in position. But it's actually like you've had four years to do something for some good projects that you haven't done. I thought it was very fun to listen to the Right, which has now begun to become visionary. Instead of just counting money and taxes, they're actually starting to talk about some positive elements in society, for example. the one with a high-speed train that Right has now launched after they came out of government. So I'm glad that right now kind of shows some good ideas. But why didn't they straighten up and close the hole when they were in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2311	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2314	I am also very pleased that Hallgeir Langeland has now entered the asphalt tunnel and will seal the holes on the road. It is great that SV has now come to the conclusion that good roads are needed in a country as pig-grown as Norway. Then we're going to work together to realize some of the visions that the Right has presented on the Highway. It's even about connecting Bergen and Stavanger with the railway. It is a relatively demanding project, but at the same time we know that Norway is flying ten times as much as in other European countries. The reason for this is long distances, but at the same time poorly developed railways and poorly developed road networks. So I'm sure the newest asphalt comrade, Hallgeir Langeland, should be able to help us make a positive contribution to getting a lift on the road, even in the case of the railways. As far as the roads are concerned, I am firmly convinced that we are now clearly seeing the importance of prioritising maintenance and at the same time focusing on new projects. If the government now follows up the plans they've made, that's fine. But we now want to have a road fund that ensures stability and long-term road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2321	The representative of Langeland, Greece, was so outspoken that he took self-criticism on behalf of the previous government’s commitment to transport, but underlined that it would now be better. It's brilliant. There's no need to stand here and hound over who's put ambitions through the national transport plan, which we're now going to strive to fill, and I'm excited about what tomorrow gives. What is exciting about the contributions of the representative of Greece is that the Right now intends to give in to transport policy, and will play along with the Government in this way. But in that context, this is also a question for municipalities and counties. I registered with a positive interest that Akershus now ventured to 85 million. to road safety and highways, because the economy had improved. Does Helleland see that municipalities and counties are now acting in a completely different way on the maintenance of roads than they did before, because of the economy they have been given?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2330	Yes, there are many «land» to keep order here, President. The representative of Greece clearly sees that where there is more money in the box, there is also more room to bet on road maintenance and on development. But the most important thing in this region – and the representative Sundsbø knows too – is that the government actually allows local democracy to prevail in the development of Oslopak 3. After all, a wide-ranging selection of the two counties of Oslo and Akershus has agreed on a large-scale package, with a focus on public transport, with a focus on new E18 from Asker to Oslo, with a focus on rail. What I'm concerned about is that the Central Party, which is engaged in local democracy and decision making, is going to put chains in the wheels of the local consensus that has been reached on Oslopackak 3. Unfortunately, we have already seen some small scattered examples of the fact that the Council of State and her staff are trying to doubt the consensus reached on Oslopackak 3. I hope that the representative Sundsbø can help to make Oslopak 3 a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05.ana.ud2365e2339	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. The meeting will now be cancelled and a new meeting will be scheduled at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at tonight's meeting is State Councillor Helen Bjørnøy.
