ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e69	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Five permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 24 October onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Marianne Marthinsen from 24 October onwards and until further notice from the Christian People's Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Dagrun Eriksen from 24 October onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Truls Wickholm from 24 October onwards and until further notice from the representative Per Ove Wide on the leave from 24 October to 26 October to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Committee in China; These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oppland County, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget on Tuesday 24 October under the permission of the representative Torstein Rudihagen, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor Uppland County: Stein Knutsen and Synnove Fire Klemetrud For Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Anne Lise RyelFor Vestfold County: Jan Fredrik Vogt2. Karin Yrvin and Jan Fredrik Vogt are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representative Marianne Marthinsen and the representative Per Ove Width respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e152	Sigmund Kroslid, Stein Knutsen, Karin Yrvin, Anne Lise Ryel and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and we sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e158	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e168	According to the decision of the closed meeting held in Stortinget on Friday 20 October, the matter on the agenda for the closed meeting will be dealt with at this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e180	Under the last paragraph of Section 13 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that this matter be dealt with by a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, followed by the Minister for Defence. Then, the main speakers from each group will be given the floor for posts of up to 10 minutes, and the other speakers for posts of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a response after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e187	The Government wants to continue today’s high Norwegian troops’ contribution to the NATO-led stabilisation force ISAF in Afghanistan and does not extend its participation by sending special forces to the southern parts of the country. But we will follow the situation continuously. This clarification triggered an intense debate last week, and from the opposition it was clearly stated that the matter should be discussed in Stortinget. This the Government has noticed – and let me add: We have learned from it. I notice that the Government and opposition have different understanding of the nature of the matter in relation to the question of consultations with Stortinget. Let me then say that I am very comfortable to base the opposition's understanding on consultations with the Storting in this matter. It is and will be my and the Government's ambition to contribute to a close and proper dialogue between government and growth on important foreign and security policy issues. I am therefore pleased with this opportunity to give an account of the situation in Afghanistan and of a debate in this Chamber that will highlight the major challenge facing Afghanistan and the whole of the international community. The situation in Afghanistan is very serious: The Taliban and other rebel groups have been on the offensive in the autumn to undermine the democratically elected government, and they must be combated.The reconciliation work is too slow, and it must be carried out.The Afghan institutions and the government's authority must be strengthened, and respect for law and order must be established.The reconstruction and development work depends on and must be stepped up. Let me underline: there is a need for a change of pace in efforts to build sustainable peace in Afghanistan. Especially after the fighting in the south a few weeks ago, this is a cohesive view of the international community and of the democratic forces in Afghanistan. In order to succeed, there is a need for an international effort to bring together Afghan society. International measures in the field of security and development and the construction of political institutions must constitute a comprehensive strategy. At the same time, such an integrated approach must have a clear national perspective. We need to see the whole country together. And let us remember what is the most fundamental consideration in today's situation: Only Afghans themselves can create lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan. Peace must be owned by Afghans. Our efforts must be designed to strengthen the confidence of the population in Afghanistan's democratically elected leaders in all parts of the country. Afghan ownership must be central to all efforts. At the same time, our commitment to a stable Afghanistan is an effort for a safer world. We cannot allow Afghanistan to again be a haven for terrorist movements. We cannot allow this conflict-filled region to be further characterised by instability, uncertainty and violence. The threat of an unstable Afghanistan is also felt in our own society. A few meters from the Stortinget, you can buy heroin directly from Afghanistan. If we can get the opium producers to switch to other agricultural production, we contribute to the safety of our youth, and to weaken the foothold of greedy criminals. This whole perspective is the starting point for my presentation today. Let me start with the security situation. The threat picture in Afghanistan is composed and characterised by large local and regional differences. The situation is particularly challenging in the south and east. This part of the country has traditionally been a core area of the Taliban-related groups. It is currently particularly vulnerable to regional tensions and an almost uncontrolled cross-border traffic from Pakistan. The situation has also deteriorated in Kabul. There is a real danger that unrest will spread to other parts of the country. It is not just the fighting actions that have become more extensive. The number of suicide bombs and other attacks has risen dramatically. The attacks carried out by the Taliban and other rebel groups are directed both at Afghans and against international personnel. Representatives of Afghan authorities, the civilian population and schools are particularly vulnerable. Aggravated security situation prevents the necessary assistance and development. Meeting this threat is demanding. We have seen that the presence of troops from far away, while the regular Afghans do not experience improved living conditions, can make the civilian population turn against these troops. And we've seen that fighting actions that require high civil loss rates, once again, may seem recruiting for the Taliban and other rebel groups. The ISAF international stabilisation force plays a central role in stabilising Afghanistan. This presence shall contribute to enabling development. Security and reconstruction go hand in hand. The mandate of the ISAF team has been given by the UN Security Council. The mission is inter alia: to contribute to effective control of the democratically elected government throughout the country and to facilitate economic and social development. The UN Security Council decided on 12 September this year to extend the mandate of the ISAF team for a further year. The Council of NATO extended the responsibilities of ISAF in June and September to the southern and then eastern parts of the country. ISAF thus covers the whole of Afghanistan. Following NATO’s decision, Norway, like other allies, received requests from the alliance to extend our participation in ISAF. These requests have been thoroughly evaluated by the Government. In our assessments, we have focused on Norway's significant military engagement, both in Afghanistan and in other international operations – I mention Lebanon and the planned operation of a possible UN exposure in Darfur – on our desire to concentrate and consolidate military efforts in North Afghanistan, and on the contribution of other countries. Following such an overall assessment, it has been assessed by the Government during the autumn that Norway does not change its military contribution to ISAF by sending special forces to the south today. That is what we made clear last week, as we also stressed that we are following the situation continuously. The decision implies that the Norwegian military contribution to Afghanistan, which is currently around 550 women and men, will be continued. This continues to make Norway one of the largest contributors measured against the population. Let me also add that the Norwegian ISAF contribution has changed dramatically in a very short time. The number of Norwegian soldiers in Meymaneh in the Faryab province has almost doubled after the riots of February this year. Our exclamation force became fully operational in March. Until a year ago, the main gravity of our military contribution had been in Kabul. Meeting the demands now made to us in the north in the form of stabilisation, training of the Afghan army, by the police, and building up civil society, will require additional resources in the future. NATO is briefed on the Norwegian position. At the same time, we have stressed that Norway can, in principle, participate with forces throughout the responsibilities of ISAF. It follows from NATO's responsibility for the whole of Afghanistan. Nor does Norway restrict the type of contribution we can make. This also applies to the possible future deployment of Norwegian special forces. In this context, let me remind you that, in the context of NATO, it is not uncommon for Member States, after an overall assessment, to choose to respond negatively to requests for forces. Such questions are really coming on and off. A number of times have occurred — including from the Norwegian side. To give just one example: the previous government chose to withdraw an infantry battalion from Kosovo a few months after the riots in 2004, despite NATO’s requests to leave it behind. I would therefore strongly warn against making our responses to requests for military contributions to a question of our credibility as ally. It's unwarranted. Should it have been like this, it would also have been a characteristic that would have affected a number of our allies. Norway is at NATO, now and in the future. Stability, reconstruction and economic and social progress in Afghanistan cannot be achieved by military means alone. Last week's time-heated debate, this reasoning became almost wasted on the fact that there is hardly any disagreement that we should do more on the civil side. The disagreement concerns our military contribution, it is said. This is getting too simple. My impression is that parts of the opposition focus unilaterally on the troops’ contributions, without going into the analysis of where Afghanistan is today, and where Afghanistan can go tomorrow, based on a broad political solution. The situation is that today – from international and Afghan military and civil representatives – there are strong calls for a change of pace in civil efforts. The leading military I've been talking to over the past few weeks, and then I'm including the head of ISAF, pointing to the lack of civil progress as the critical point in today's Afghanistan. They point to weak coordination and use of resources, insufficient efforts to build up the army, the police and the judiciary, and too little emphasis on Afghan ownership. It is therefore not enough just to agree to increased assistance. The task is to give it a form and content that are adapted to the current situation and that enables us to reverse a dangerous development. Both the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-General of NATO and the military leadership of ISAF are concerned with these issues, as well as, of course, that ISAF can reach its targets on the side of the troops. When I addressed this at the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in New York on 21 September, there was a consensus that there is now an urgent need to achieve a more effective and comprehensive strategy. This work has been followed up by extensive discussions in New York, Afghanistan and here in Oslo over the past few weeks. The conversations continue this week and will be continued in the coming time. Let me underline that this review draws an image that is also not without light points. The international community has made extensive efforts in several areas. Nevertheless, there is a widespread perception that overall efforts need to be increased, accelerated and better put into a broader strategy. This is what I mean by a change of pace. This assessment is based on a number of factors. Let me mention the most prominent challenges: Firstly, stability requires the creation of effective Afghan institutions. International efforts must help to strengthen the competence of Afghan authorities. Secondly, it is essential that the Afghan Government strengthen its work of reconciliation and reach out to all parts of the country. That is not the case today. Thirdly, we must ensure that the steady Afghan woman and man see the rapid and concrete results of our efforts in their everyday lives. And finally, our efforts must be better coordinated, both between donors and Afghan authorities. Afghanistan has no tradition of democratic rule. Outside major cities, local tribal structures and other power mechanisms are more important than national authorities and laws. The Afghan government does not have the power to expand its authority around the country enough to ensure that the population sees it as a guarantor of security and progress. There is an acute lack of expertise and competence in the authorities in Kabul and in the provinces. As a result, resources actually available to the government of the country are not used or used poorly. The training of Afghan police and justice has gone too slowly and is one of the weakest points in international efforts. There are significant elements of corruption and inefficiency in both institutions. At the same time, the country is the poorest in Asia and among the poorest in the world. There is a dangerous gap between people's expectations of government and international society, and the results that citizens see for their own lives. In addition, many donor countries choose to go outside Afghan authorities. This is understandable from a desire to achieve rapid results, but it provides little transfer of expertise to Afghan authorities, and it does not provide the desired effect of strengthening the population's upswing in government. It is therefore urgent to address these key challenges. The better we succeed in the civil areas I have now mentioned, the less we will be dependent on military instruments. Norway has an important role to play here. The Government wants to strengthen efforts for reconstruction and social and economic development, consistent with the overall plan of the Afghan authorities and the international community – with the key actors of the UN, the World Bank and the EU at the forefront – agreed in London in February, also called The Afghanistan Compact. According to this plan, the aim is for Afghan authorities to regain control across the country. This year, we're contributing about 300 million. to the reconstruction of institutions, education and poverty reduction. This is an increase of 50 million. kr from 2005. We've contributed about 90 million. kr per year to alleviate humanitarian distress, reintegration of refugees, mine clearance and the building of police and judicial systems. Norway is a driving force to strengthen the position of women. In order to achieve social and economic development and lasting peace, it is necessary to mobilise the resources represented by Afghan women. The Government is concerned that Norway is extending its efforts in Afghanistan. We have stepped up our contributions to ISAF, and we closely follow the situation on the military side, as mentioned. Furthermore, we will make new contributions to meet short-term and urgent needs, as well as providing targeted assistance for longer-term tasks. With regard to short-term assistance, I would like to highlight in particular the needs that now exist due to the drought situation and the fighting actions in the south. On 22 October, the Afghan Government and the United Nations sent out a joint appeal for urgent assistance to the many now affected by the drought in Afghanistan, and to those around 20 000 families who have fled from their homes after the fighting in the south. The needs have been estimated at over 270 million. kr. From the Norwegian side, we will respond positively to this appeal. In the south, humanitarian work is particularly difficult, but it is also possible to obtain help here. This humanitarian space needs to be expanded and exploited, We need good civil-military coordination, while maintaining a clear division of roles between military and civil activities. Humanitarian action must be based on humanitarian principles. The fights in the south have also led to extensive destruction of homes and infrastructure. On the Dutch side, NATO has requested that funds be made available quickly for the reconstruction of these communities. We are now considering this request. It is important that reconstruction takes place on Afghan premises. And as I said, only in this way can we ensure that the measures are given local ownership and strengthen Afghan authorities. It is also important that we help to improve the ability of the Afghan Government to strengthen its efforts for reconciliation and to reach out to different parts of the country. This effort to link central authorities and traditional Afghan local structures is essential to ensure that the people of the provinces and districts end up in Kabul. Mobilising such support from local leaders will also make an important contribution to tackling the huge problem of opium. In order to develop and mitigate further recruitment to the Taliban and other rebel groups, it is also important to support the Afghan government in ensuring better school provision — including in combative provinces. Families today sending their sons to religious schools in Pakistan must see that they have alternatives in their own country that are compatible with their own faith and culture and that provide their children with knowledge and vocational training for the benefit of the community. From the Norwegian side, we will also strengthen efforts to build up Afghan police and judicial systems. The EU considers that it accepts special responsibility for assistance for the construction of these institutions. This is a joyous development. If the EU chooses to play a greater role here, I expect that Norway, like other third countries, will also be invited to participate, and we will see this in a positive light. We will strengthen efforts to transfer competences and expertise to Afghan authorities, to central ministries and to the provinces. This is essential for the visibility and efficiency of the government in Kabul around the country and for the population to choose to give its support to central authorities and not to local groups that oppose it. We have to show the Afghans that we are willing to think and act in the long term to build up their institutions. At the same time, the UN, the World Bank and donor countries must make it clear to the Afghan authorities that they must act more resolutely in relation to corruption in their own apparatus of authority, in the police and in the judiciary. Norway has a special responsibility in the Faryab province in the north, where we lead a so-called stabilisation strike — or a PRT. We've spent 40 million so far this year. kr in that province. This is now beginning to produce results, and efforts will be reinforced in the coming year. It will also include increased efforts to develop critical parts of the province's infrastructure. Major developments in the north will be an important contribution to address the risk of spreading unrest in other parts of the country. As can be seen from what I have said, the Government is adding up to a significant increase in Norwegian efforts. Our total civil exposure is expected to account for approximately $30 billion next year. This would mean an increase of 100 million. kr in humanitarian and long-term development efforts in Afghanistan. At the same time, we will seek to address the most acute humanitarian problems in this year's budget. International civil efforts are little compared to what we have experienced in other countries affected by conflicts. We have made it clear to the UN and the World Bank that we want them to play a more active role in coordinating their efforts in civil matters. At the same time, donor countries and other donors must show greater willingness to be coordinated. If we succeed at this point, it will also be easier to meet the main challenge of today's situation, namely to promote Afghan ownership. I started today's presentation by stressing that the situation in Afghanistan is very serious. I hope I have just communicated this. The challenges are great, and they can only be solved through a broad international commitment, where civil and military efforts are seen in a political context. The time available to succeed is limited. The fights in the south were serious. Today, the military analysis is that the situation in the south has stabilised, but not stable. ISAF has a central role here – in the south – but also in the other parts of the country, and we need to take our share of responsibility. If Afghanistan is to succeed, we must not underestimate the dimensions and breadth of the challenges we face. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that we succeed in making a change of pace. The government wants Norway to contribute precisely to this. And the government will, as I said at the outset, keep close in touch with the Storting and Storting's organs on this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e316	The international community has undertaken to support the legally elected Afghan government in its efforts to establish security, development and reconstruction in Afghanistan. ISAF is the NATO-led force in Afghanistan, which was established on the basis of the ‘Bonn process’. The Force shall contribute to security in Afghanistan and assist in the reconstruction of the Afghan State. ISAF is an operation in support of the Afghan Government with a mandate from the UN Security Council. Accordingly, ISAF is not considered to be an Article 5 operation. The UN Security Council has adopted a number of resolutions based on Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which authorise the presence of the ISAF force in Afghanistan. The first is Resolution 1386 of 20 December 2001 and gives the force a mandate to operate in Kabul and its surroundings. Resolution 1510 of 13 October 2003 authorises ISAF to operate in areas outside Kabul. Following the management of ISAF by the United Kingdom, Turkey and Germany as a coalition operation since February 2002, NATO assumed responsibility for the operation in August 2003. Later UN resolutions have continued the mandate of ISAF. Today, Norway has approx. 550 soldiers of a total of 31,000 in ISAF. This is a major military contribution, taking into account that Norway is a country of 4.6 million. residents. In this context, Norway and the Netherlands are the top contributors to ISAF in terms of population. We get feedback that the Norwegian forces are of very high quality and that they are doing a very good job. Norway is similarly contributing heavily to the financing of reconstruction of the Afghan community. The government has significantly strengthened Norway’s presence in northern Afghanistan, and so far we have chosen to concentrate military efforts in this area. Norway, following the United Kingdom, assumed responsibility for the PRT – Provincial Reconstruction Team – in Meymaneh in September 2005 and for the rapid reaction force – QRF – in Mazar-e-Sharif in March 2006. This made it possible for British forces to be more easily deployed in South Afghanistan. We have already made significant investments in new camps both in Meymaneh and in Mazar. For the QRF in Mazar, the new Camp Nidaros has so far cost at least 100 million. kr. The rapid reaction force in Mazar is a central capacity for NATO. It shall be able to move rapidly out to the relief of NATO forces in the event of a critical situation. The strength consists of more than 300 people, and is a robust and retarded capacity. The attack on the Norwegian camp in Meymaneh on 7 February this year showed how important it is that NATO has a rapid reaction force in the area. In Mazar Norway is also responsible for a field hospital. Norwegian staff at this hospital are of high quality and also provide hospital services to the civilian population. This area of Afghanistan has little or no hospital coverage, so the Norwegian contribution plays a significant role for civil society. That's a total of approx. 40 Norwegian staff engaged at the hospital. In addition, Norway has the management of the PRT, which is deployed in Meymaneh. The task of the PRT is to disseminate the legitimacy and authority of the central authorities in the Faryab province. This is done primarily through the organisation of civil reconstruction and development projects. The PRT has a civil part, including staff from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The civil element is equal and not subject to military leadership. The Government has decided to step up civil efforts in the Faryab province by increasing the available funds for projects. The desire is more to see civil and military action in the context. The PRT concept is based on the fact that military presence is a prerequisite for stability and development, but that such means alone will not solve the long-term challenges facing Afghanistan. During my conversation with President Karzai in Kabul last week, for example, he asked. that the Norwegian side also assesses the contribution to, inter alia, road construction, while Minister of Defence Wardak pointed to the need for increased support for the construction of the Afghan army. These are examples of projects that are important to help improve the longer-term safety situation. The Norwegian PRT model receives recognition from NATO. These include: because we are increasingly seeing the civil and military efforts in the context, while at the same time operating with clear lines of division between military and civil actors. The defence plays an facilitating role, while the civil tasks are carried out by civil actors. In addition to approx. 100 Norwegian staff comprise the PRT of representatives from Latvia and Finland. The management of a multinational civil-military element that the PRT in Meymaneh provides useful experience. In addition, we have good influence over the development of civil-military cooperation in NATO. The defence is also spending a lot of money locally in Afghanistan in the form of contracted local labour and the purchase of services. This is not least important in an otherwise poor province, where the PRT in Meymaneh is located. For example, Norway is now upgrading an Afghan military camp for about 5 million. kr, where only local labour force is used. This upgrade is necessary to ensure that the Afghan army can have one company in the province, which is absolutely essential to ensure stability and positive development. As a result of increased Norwegian investment in the Faryab province, and the fact that the existing PRT camp does not meet future needs, Norway is now building a new camp with a cost of 82 million. kr. It has been chosen to carry out work on Afghan labour, inter alia: to provide the community with both competences and jobs. The establishment of Afghan security forces is essential for the Afghans themselves to ensure security for their own country. In this connection, NATO has started to train the Afghan army with so-called Operational Mentoring and Liaison Teams this summer. Norway contributes to this in northern Afghanistan with eight staff officers, and currently heads the training of the only Brigadier-General in northern Afghanistan. Norway also has personnel in the ISAF operational management both centrally in Kabul and in the North Afghanistan Regional Command. This gives insight and influence to the planning and management of the operation. I would like to say a little bit about the security situation in Afghanistan. As you know, the security situation in South Afghanistan following the extension of NATO's operation has been very demanding. The situation has recently improved somewhat, but is still difficult and is expected to remain difficult and unpredictable for a long time to come. There is a growing tendency for the security situation throughout Afghanistan to be deteriorating, including in the North region. The area is relatively stable, but an increase in the extent of ethnic conflict and increased violence related to drug traffic is recorded. The stability of the area is based on very fragile political compromises. There are also signs that the Taliban is in the process of strengthening its presence also in the north. This shows that the Norwegian contributions in North Afghanistan are strictly necessary and relevant. Here we have assumed a heavy responsibility, among other things. for the Norwegian-led PRT. This is a commitment that we cannot, or will not, leave. Our current strength contribution must therefore at present focus on addressing its important tasks in northern Afghanistan. It is the Government’s view that all NATO member countries share a joint responsibility for the ISAF operation throughout Afghanistan. It is therefore not excluded that the Norwegian rapid reaction force can also be deployed elsewhere in Afghanistan in critical situations, as long as the mission is within the force’s operational capacity and mission as a response force. Norway has also provided single soldiers for the sanitary service in South Afghanistan. These soldiers have made a very important effort and received very good publicity from NATO. Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan must also be viewed against other operational needs and against priorities for Norway’s contribution to other international operations. We have a significant contribution to the UNIFIL operation off the coast of Lebanon. In addition, we are planning for a contribution to a possible UN operation in Darfur. At the same time, it is important for me, as Minister of Defence, also to have access to personnel in Norway who, at short notice, can strengthen our departments in an emergency situation, as we are caught up in the attack on the PRT in Meymaneh in February. Let me also add that the army's capacity is extended, in particular this concerns the relevant support functions for international operations, and there is a very heavy burden on the personnel, and their families, who carry out the main gravity of such tasks. This government has provided for an escalation of our total military foreign exposure in relation to when we took over after the previous government. When our UNIFIL contributions begin their service tomorrow, we have about 790 soldiers in international operations, compared to about 520 at the end of the last period of government. Today, in Afghanistan, we have about 550 soldiers, all of whom serve in ISAF. The previous government had about 470 soldiers in Afghanistan, but only 390 of them participated in ISAF. This increased commitment to participation in international peace operations is necessary and in line with the Government's policy and objective of active international engagement both in NATO and in the UN. However, out-of-office levels make it impossible for Norway to respond positively to all requests for increased strength contributions from different teams. It is a fact that Norway has given priority to participation in ISAF, and we are relatively among the most serious contributors. That our close allied demand for additional Norwegian contributions is a recognition of the great effort our soldiers make in Afghanistan – and elsewhere where they participate. I would like to stress that all Norwegian personnel who are now serving, or who have served, in Afghanistan are making an invaluable effort for the Afghan population, for international security – and therefore also for Norwegian security. NATO has since 5 October assumed military stabilisation responsibility for the whole of Afghanistan. In this context, more than 10 000 US forces are now included in ISAF, with main efforts in East Afghanistan. In South Afghanistan, there are still shortcomings in relation to the level of strength that has been politically recognised by the Council of NATO. Helicopters, infantry departments and special forces are still among the main deficiencies. All NATO member countries have been asked to contribute more forces. The government has over time assessed the situation in Afghanistan and any need for additional Norwegian contributions, and has chosen not to change the alignment of our strength contribution now. I would like to stress that there is no fundamental resistance from the Government towards sending Norwegian forces to South Afghanistan. Norway concentrates its military efforts in the north, but may in principle participate with forces throughout the sphere of competence of ISAF. Nor are there any restrictions on the type of contributions that Norway can make, including special forces. Let me stress that this is by no means the first time we don't respond positively to a force request from NATO or the UN. So, for example, has been the case for NATO's operation in Iraq and for various contributions to the operations in Kosovo and Afghanistan. We are now in a process of reporting Norway’s strength contribution to ongoing NATO operations for the next few years. This is done to ensure that NATO military authorities have the best possible overview of the strengths of nations, thereby improving NATO’s long-term planning capability. In this respect, the Government will consult the Storting on the future alignment of strength contributions, both to ISAF and to other operations. The government is determined that Norway will continue to be a central contributor to ISAF, while strengthening our contribution to the UN. Norwegian support is a central part of Norwegian security policy. The government’s consultations with the Stortinget are important in order to reach the widest possible consensus on Norwegian contributions to international operations. Let me conclude this statement by stating the following: NATO is a cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, and this is firmly established. Norway makes a significant and important contribution to NATO’s operation in Afghanistan. In fact, this government has strengthened our military contributions to Afghanistan and ISAF in relation to the previous government. Norway has undertaken a very demanding mission in northern Afghanistan. Last February, our soldiers in Meymaneh were in a very dangerous situation. We are taking, and we are going to continue to take, our solidarity responsibility in NATO seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e390	The situation in Afghanistan is difficult. The country has been a host of wars for decades. The country has no democratic or popular tradition. The one thoughtless dictatorship has followed after the other. The country has hardly ever had a central government with control over the whole country. Warlords and local tribes have been more concerned with self-interest than with the conditions of the inhabitants. The civilian population has suffered for generations and lives under surveillance in our Norwegian everyday life difficult to think about. Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world. The standard of living is very low, and one experiences direct humanitarian distress. The drought and the acts of war are exacerbating the situation. Institutions that we take as a follow-up to this country are non-existent in Afghanistan. The health system is very deficient. The same thing is the education system. The police and the judiciary are in big need. National defence and security forces are not expanded. Nor have elections on the President and a national assembly given the development you might want or hope. Central government can't take care of its residents' security needs. Unfortunately, the expected evolution in living conditions has not come either. Frustration spreads. There's growing dissatisfaction with the president and the government. The foreign forces will also meet with greater scepticism now than before. It also appears to be increasing the concentration of Taliban and other rebel groups. The security situation prevents normal developments in the country. Civil society is lying. Normal activity is difficult. Parents are afraid to send their kids to school. Fear take hold. Afghanistan needs the help of the international community to create a better life for its inhabitants. I'm glad Norway has set up to help the Afghan people. Norway is one of the largest contributors in terms of both civil and military support. Through participation in ISAF, Norway currently has about 550 soldiers in Afghanistan. There's a rise of about 80 since the government change. ISAF is the highest-priority international operation for this government, and a long-term Norwegian presence. The government decided in the previous week that it will not increase the Norwegian contribution now, and that Norway will concentrate military efforts in Afghanistan on the areas of the north. However, the Government clarifies that in principle one can participate with forces throughout ISAF’s responsibilities. Nor is there any limit to what contributions Norway can make. The government will further assess the need to change the Norwegian strength contribution. The Labour Party supports the Government's decision. Support from Norway to build civil society will this year be about 400 million. kr – there is also a rise since last year. Norwegian support is concentrated on education, governance and public administration, village development and the fight against drugs. Norway also makes significant contributions to humanitarian purposes, democratic development and the establishment of police and judicial systems. Further efforts and coordination are now needed. In order to reverse developments, the Afghan people must experience progress in living conditions and a safer everyday life. Norway will increase Norwegian efforts by 100 million in the next year. kr. It is important to achieve a positive development in the country, thus helping to raise the gap between democratic institutions. It is important to strengthen the legitimacy of Afghan regimes. I am pleased with the initiative taken by Norway to achieve better coordination and to attract the UN and the World Bank to a greater extent. A stronger commitment from the international community to civil aid for Afghanistan will be decisive to stabilise the country – and it is urgent. The government's decision to continue the current level and in this turn not to send new forces to Afghanistan created strong reactions among some. Although I can understand that it is possible to have a different view on this issue, I believe that many of the reactions are not in any way related to the decision taken by the Government. Following some reactions, a few impressions may be that Norway is now about to leave NATO, and that by saying no to new Norwegian contributions, we should not expect help if our country is threatened. This, of course, is not the case. Norway is regularly asked to provide strengths for various missions under the auspices of the EU, the United Nations and NATO. Norway has traditionally tried to respond positively to such requests, but there has never been any automatic. Both this government and previous governments have had to say no to contributions issues. There are several examples of this. Among other things, NATO has once again said no to its training mission in Iraq. One has repeatedly addressed questions about sending F-16 aircraft and transport aircraft to Afghanistan, and declined requests. In the previous period, there was a strong reaction in NATO and Norway to the fact that the then government chose to withdraw a Norwegian infantry battalion from Kosovo, in a very tense and difficult situation – a decision that, in my view, was far more dramatic than the determined government of today has taken, to carry on the activity at the current level. Although one may be critical of what the previous government did in Kosovo, I cannot see that that decision has damaged our relationship with NATO. It is also the case that most other NATO countries have declined requests for contributions at regular intervals. It also concerns issues related to contributions to Afghanistan. One should therefore be careful to raise this question. Norway is in line with other countries in this case, and the Norwegian decision cannot be interpreted as not setting up NATO. Following the publication by the Government of the previous week of the decision to pass on the Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan at the current level, there was a strong reaction that the Stortinget was not involved or consulted. The government of its members has probably taken this into account, and I note what the Foreign Minister said in the introduction, and so far also in the final analysis, of the need for a close relationship with the Stortinget. As the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I would like to make it clear that it is important for the Storting to be involved in important foreign policy decisions. We have long had a desire for a high degree of consensus on important foreign policy issues. It's solid. Although we now have a plural government, the need for consultations with the Stortinget is equal. However, I would like to make it clear that there is no phased response to the time that the enlarged Foreign Committee should be called. There have been several times correct criticisms both against this government and previous governments because one has called in to a meeting without having anything new to say. The government and the Labour Party considered the decision of the previous week to be a continuation of today's policy, and therefore not a new policy, so that there was a need to consult the Stortinget. But when said, one has noticed the criticism that has emerged. At least I hope that one in the future will be able to have a good and close dialogue with Stortinget on the kind of questions we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e444	I note that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee needs to stress that the Workers' Party supports the Government's decision. That may be okay, because throughout the last ageing period, the Workers' Party, together with the Progress Party and the Bondevik Government, constituted the broad majority when it came to our position on solutions in Afghanistan. This applies, inter alia, to: military missions and contributions, whether to ‘Enduring Freedom’ or to the ISAF forces. Now the Workers' Party – after they came into government – has been driven from hill to hill. Can we now expect more surprises from the Labour Party? Is there any limit to how far you're willing to go to stretch to meet the anti-NATO party SV? Does the Workers' Party perceive that the gain of being in government is so great that no matter what conflicts you have with your allies, it's worth it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e449	I just have to say that's true, that here probably the reality concept is very different for the questioner and me. It is not the case that the Norwegian Government or the Labour Party members have been driven out of the way. We have had an offensive foreign policy from day one – which, of course, the Government and the Labour Party are fully behind us. It is that we have increased our activity in Afghanistan when it concerns both the military and the civil presence. We have ambitions to continue to have a strong presence in Afghanistan. Refusing this request now is not a new one either. As I pointed out in my article, something has happened at regular intervals under different governments. It also happened under the previous government, without it becoming dramatic about our relationship with NATO or preventing us from having an active policy vis-à-vis Afghanistan. So I'm going to say that the reality that the Progress Party is trying to draw here is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e456	I understand you have easy to find parallel situations. I want to justify the whole of the decision of the previous government not to maintain the activity in Kosovo, the example used by both the Workers' Party spokesman and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So you just stepped down on a plan because you built up the engagement in Afghanistan. It was done with broad support in this process, including the party of Olav Akselsen, the Workers' Party. We participated by sending down a helicopter force to Kosovo instead. We justified the content of our overall assessment. It doesn't happen now, we don't get to hear what's really in the term 'wholeness assessment'. What are the negatives, what's the draw in the direction of not participating when we have the forces? We haven't heard the argument that it's not money. So we can participate, but we don't want to. What is the honest overall assessment? What are the negatives of not participating?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e461	I think there are clear parallels to both the previous government procedure in Kosovo and some other situations where one from Norway has chosen not to set up. Most of the requests of this type that receive a negative answer are never debated in public space. Nor is it normal for a reason to have taken the decision. We note that when the previous government withdrew from Kosovo, there was strong criticism from NATO. There were also many in Norway who thought it was a mistake decision. In my view, it was a much more serious decision than today's decision to continue an activity at the current level. The government has assessed the situation and found out that such a situation is today, and has no desire to escalate Norwegian presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e470	Both of the statements we have heard here today have pointed to a precarious situation in Afghanistan. The Foreign Minister stressed the need for a change of pace, both humanitarian and military. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party strongly agrees that we must also have a humanitarian change of pace. But the decision that was made now, when the question came up about being on the change of pace, we don't fully understand. And when the Workers' Party's foreign policy spokespersons expressed to the Weekly newspaper that in a tripartite government you win something and lose something – not for so long since we were cheering over Mongstad – it is clear that then the question is: Have you sacrificed the military change of pace at the compromise table in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e476	I would first like to thank support for increasing humanitarian efforts in Afghanistan. The government has taken a decision that we in the Labour Party put us behind. The decision is drawn from what I perceive is the situation today; a decision that is judged on an ongoing basis. So, of course, it's so that you can always speculate in, or have as a hobby and discuss, why some decisions are taken. It's e.g. also so that this meeting here today has been convened following an initiative by the opposition party on the Stortinget. We could maybe philosophize if one had a desire to try to make it so that there was a problem between the government party and that kind of thing. What I find out is that the government has taken a decision, which we put behind us. I assume that when the different opposition parties want to discuss this matter in Stortinget, it is because they want matters better explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e485	The good thing about Norwegian security and foreign policy is that we have a broad consensus on it. There has been a broad tradition for this from the Workers' Party, through the Centre Parties and to the Right. Gradually, the Progress Party has also become part of this – for many years. Then it is essential that we have an enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, chaired by the representative of the Olav Aksen, which is the right arena to anchor this consensus. Also in cases where one can see that the opposition could imagine that the government should take a different operational decision than it has made, we have tradition that the opposition has set up for this. It is precisely this possibility The size and opposition have been removed by the way we see it now. I am pleased to note that the Foreign Minister has taken self-criticism in his speech today, as far as it is possible to complain from a majority position in this Chamber, and I am pleased with that. What I want to challenge the head of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee is to state that he shares this regret – not that he is responsible to the Stortinget in the same way – and will help us get back on track that has been such a proud tradition in Norwegian security and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e494	I think I already did that in my post, made it clear that the criticism that has been raised is something that one has taken in. I also stressed that it is important, even though a new parliamentary situation now exists, that we stick to the old traditions and discuss major issues related to foreign policy. What I have to say, however, is that there is a slightly different assessment of the dramaticness of the decision taken by the Government last week. The government and government party considered this to be a continuation of today's policy, and thus did not see the need to consult, because one thought that one had already consulted the level of the day. At the same time, I will take advantage of this – when Sponheim gives me that opportunity – to say that I am going to work so that we do not have this kind of debate related to security policy or foreign policy issues in the future. We are allowed to concentrate on discussing the content of the cases and not the way we handle them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e501	I would like to give the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee an opportunity to elaborate on the problem of meeting this enquiry. We have, I think, been given the clarity that we have the strengths, and we have the financial resources, but that is not will. At the same time, it is emphasised that you will be strong in Afghanistan, you will do a lot, you will do more. But why was it difficult for Norway to send exactly these 150 special forces like NATO so badly in demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e506	The answer to this is the same as in any other situation when Norway receives a request. One assesses different things like economics, capacity, what kind of forces are available, etc., and from that it sums up and makes a decision. What has been unusual this time is that there has been a public debate linked to this decision, both in advance and after. However, it is that the foundation is the same as otherwise, i.e. one based on a health assessment did not see that it was necessary for Norway to contribute at this point in time. But at the same time, one states that it is not a matter of principle that Norway can not, at a later stage, if the situation should change, contribute to increasing strengths compared to those of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e511	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e514	The Progress Party has not criticised the Government for its desire to strengthen humanitarian efforts and participation in the civil reconstruction of Afghanistan. Nor has the Progress Party criticised the Government for the current strength contribution in Afghanistan. This is where Stortinget agrees. There's no disagreement here. Here all parties agree on the need to bet, and not least we agree that the forces already in Afghanistan are doing an excellent job. The whole of this debate is therefore a request from NATO for further contributions from Norway, primarily to strengthen efforts in South Afghanistan. That is what this debate is about. And I record that neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, nor the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has a significant need to address this. It took a lot of time to discuss what we agreed on, and it's a good thing to explain the serious situation, because it's serious. It worries us all, because it has great consequences for both Norway and the rest of the world. So the reason why the whole debate came up was this request from NATO for force. There is no lack of money that is Norway's problem. There is clearly no shortage of available forces either. Very familiar are special forces ready to take on this commitment. But it is not, therefore, the main reason given by the Government when it says that as part of an overall assessment it has not been possible to send forces now. What seems more and more obvious is that the Government’s decision has not been taken on the basis of an overall assessment of the situation in Afghanistan or on the basis of an overall assessment of foreign policy, security policy and defence policy. It has been taken from an overall assessment of other issues of conflict in the Government, i.e. domestic policy. Mongstad came first, then came Afghanistan. In that case, on the basis of such an overall assessment, I can understand the conclusion that the Government has drawn, because it is becoming uncomfortable for some parties in the Government to go on too many defeats. I wish the government had been honest enough, decent enough, to admit that this is actually the main reason. For there is no lack of money, and there is no shortage of strength, which is the main reason; there are internal problems in the Government. I also register the main argument of the Government to explain this massive contribution that Norway allegedly has in Afghanistan. So you've started with a new technique, and that's counting Norwegian crews per. the population. Why not use the same technique to calculate Norwegian aid, how much assistance Norway provides per year. the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e523	Well, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e530	Yes, but not in the same way. That's not as interesting. [[Laughter]] Why is the same technique not used to stress the number of refugees in Norway per year? the population? Why don't you use the same technique if you want to underline, for example: the size of the general government in Norway per year; population compared to other countries? It's not as relevant. However, in this case it is particularly relevant because it produces the Norwegian strength contribution as much larger than it really is. There is clearly a need for reinforced humanitarian efforts in Afghanistan. It is also in agreement with the Progress Party. But we believe that a prerequisite for getting on the humanitarian side is to be able to contribute to military stability in the area. If not, we will fail both on the humanitarian side and on the civil reconstruction side, simply because the areas are too unstable for this. Then I must say that this has been an unusually little thoughtful handling from the Government. That is why I also register what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, which is as close to a regret as it is possible to get. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should have the honour of at least admitting that this was not very well-managed with the bodies of Storting. Now we in Norway have had a great deal of agreement in foreign and security policy throughout the post-war period. This has been a support bar, and one has tried to reach consensus across the parties and the greatest possible consensus. The discussions of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee have been crucial in this context. The working party broke that consensus when they went towards the so-called double decision in NATO on the deployment of missiles at the beginning of the 1980s. There was then a major crisis in Norwegian policy. Since then, the Workers' Party has kept its path clean and has been extremely concerned never to create the impression of weakening Norway's relationship with our allies or our relationship with NATO. This situation has now changed as a result of the anti-NATO party SV being in government. I record that there have been quite clear statements from many teams related to the Norwegian conclusion. The U.S. ambassador in Norway, Benson K. Whitney, has been critical. Our current head of defense said he thought it was a particularly heavy message to deliver in Afghanistan. The former head of defense is out in the papers today, expressing the same skepticism. In other words, there are many who are now concerned about the signals sent from the Norwegian side, including the Progress Party. But then to another problem, how can we interpret the government party's own interpretation of what the government says? I hear that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence clearly say that in principle there is nothing in the way of Norway sending further forces – in principle there is nothing in the way. The question is, when does the government think that you should in principle not only think about doing it, but actually do it, since the request is there now? We could read in Dagbladet on Friday the interpretation by SV, which Audun Lysbakken, Vice President in SV, in so far also together with State Secretary Solhjell at the Prime Minister's office. It's a completely different interpretation and understanding of the Government's decision than that of the Workers' Party. Then the matter begins to become interesting again. What does the Government really mean? What are the government parties really saying about this? Is it SV's interpretation that there has been no green light for the government to send special forces to South Afghanistan? As I perceive the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is in principle nothing in the way of sending forces. But the SV's interpretation is different. It comes from the Vice-Chairman of SV, while the Workers' Party expresses their view of the decision as an opening to send forces. This helps to reinforce the ambiguity, to strengthen the uncertainty and to make it apparent that there is only one internal disagreement between the parties in the government that has led to this decision, not an overall assessment based on security, defence and foreign policy. It's sad. It's sad because the NATO Alliance has been a support bar for Norway throughout the post-war period. The operations in Afghanistan were triggered by an Article 5 operation, and although the ISAF forces are not now, it is necessary to have the history of the presence in Afghanistan from the beginning, which was triggered as a result of the terrorist acts of 11 September. That was the starting point. For this reason, it was expressed in solidarity, knowing that engaging in an area such as Afghanistan is dangerous, conflictful and, of course, must also mean long-term. You don't solve so extensive conflicts in the short term. Everyone admits that, I think. Therefore, we must be prepared to remain, strengthen and stand by to resolve this conflict because it has so many dimensions, and because, not least, it is visible, as the Foreign Minister was also involved, just a quarter of this building away from every single day, in the form of drug trafficking. We also see it in other areas in the form of increased terror and the development of strong Islamist groups that have their seat attached to this region, through the Taliban. I would like the Government – and the government parties for that matter – to be honest enough to admit what is the real reason for this conflict. It would have been an important contribution to clarifying doubt, so that we could move forward and actually also focus on what these issues really are about: the need for maximum coherence in defence, security and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e552	Does the Progress Party really believe that the ongoing assessments of NATO requests for strength contributions in various operations are a goal for our credibility as allies? Is it not also our total effort over time, whether it is military, political or humanitarian, which is crucial, and which creates respect for us as an ally, whether it is the dialogue we have had in the Balkans within NATO or our contribution to Afghanistan from the first day? Or is it perhaps that for the Progress Party, it is the domestic political gains that this case is about, and that is the overall? The domestic political game we've seen in the last few days, especially from the Advancement Party, in this matter, can't exactly be called a worthy foreign policy debate. I would like to ask if that is how the Progress Party has planned to make a show out of Norwegian foreign policy, which does not exactly create credibility outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e558	The show led the Workers' Party through the Foreign Minister's press conference in the hiking hall, without the opposition in the Stortinget being informed of the Government's decision. I think this is too serious a matter for representatives from the Workers' Party to try to talk away from what has actually happened. The Progress Party is concerned with both the elements addressed by the representative Nybakk, both a continuous assessment of the requests received by Norway and the total effort made by Norway over time. Of course, both parts mean something, but it has been common for this type of decision to be anchored in the Storting, primarily through consultations in the Enlarged Foreign Committee of the Storting, so that the whole of the matter can be assessed at any time, and the assessments and considerations on the basis of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e563	I am now pleased that the Progress Party has also taken the entire decision to the Government. It could seem that one had only got the possible SV-syger and was interested in having him very up. But participating in a government is also getting a balanced decision. Norway has recently said no to NATO requests for strength generation – first from the FOHK on Jåttå in Stavanger. I did not hear a pipe from the Advance Party when Jan Reksten rejected NATO's proposal that our soldiers in the north should be sent southward. But when the Government comes up with a balanced decision, in which we clearly say that we should not send forces now, but should in principle consider this situation continuously, why does the Progress Party portray the image of what the Government has actually said, and why does the Progress Party distort the political situation, which is quite serious both for Afghanistan and for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e570	Now, the representative Jacobsen is distorting the truth. The truth is that the decision made by the Government came as lightning from the clear sky on the Storting and on the vast majority of others as well. It came as a consequence that it felt very uncomfortable for SV – the anti-NATO party SV – to participate in a government that further strengthened Norway’s NATO effort. It's a fact. It is also a fact that there was a decision taken by the Government quite apart from what is cutaneous and not least also reflected in the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, namely that the Stortinge should be consulted on such decisions before they are taken. That is also why there are rare conflicts in the Grand Duchy about these kinds of decisions: they are anchored before they become publicly known.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e577	I noticed that the representative Siv Jensen in his post claimed that the government is producing Norway's strength contribution as much larger than it really is. I think that is a serious claim. I want to ask if she stands firm by what she said in her post, or if she wants to elaborate on it further. I also want to ask whether that means that the Progress Party is willing to propose sending more forces down to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e584	It is a fact that speakers for the three government parties have repeatedly stressed that the Norwegian contribution must be seen in relation to contributions per year. the population. It seems to be very important for the Government to stress, instead of looking at the situation, namely the request from NATO to send special forces from Norway to South Afghanistan. That's what this is all about. The Progress Party has not made any proposals in the Chamber today. It is again because we believe that this type of decision should be anchored as widely as possible, should be taken from the broadest possible consensus and should not be fed more than necessary. The government created the conflict last week. Now I think it is important to clarify what the Government's overall assessment means, and that it actually also involves considering sending forces to South Afghanistan if the request comes back.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e589	The Workers' Party and the Government will focus on consultations with the Stortingen on foreign and security policy. But I cannot recall that a government in all contexts where you have received requests from NATO has consulted Stortinget – when only one decides to continue what is the current strength contribution. I have two questions for Siv Jensen. The first is, does she think that an automatic response should be to all NATO requests to maintain NATO solidarity? And the second question, is she saying that other countries that have refused to increase their contribution to Afghanistan are threatening NATO cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e600	It is precisely for this reason that it is so important that these discussions are taken into account in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee before a decision is taken. I record and remember well that the previous government – it was then a minority government – was sometimes criticised because it brought too many cases before the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. But it was precisely because one was rather led and made sure to anchor the most decisions possible, rather than the opposite. And that's what I think the government should pay tribute to. This government has sometimes filed many cases for the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, but in this particular case, which one should have understood is of a special nature and importance, one should have brought it in before making the decision. Then one could have cleared the way out of any misunderstandings that the opposition was not able to clarify before the decision of the Government became known.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e609	I noted with great interest that Siv Jensen so clearly stated that there is no disagreement about sending humanitarian aid, sending contributions to building up Afghanistan civilly. But then I have to ask whether it may be right that the Progress Party agrees, because in the 2006 budget they proposed cutting aid to Asia by 460 million. kr. And with just 50 million. Again, there wouldn't be much money to build up Afghanistan. So it's not right that there is an agreement on increased aid. But my question to the Progress Party is: Is it weapons and military contributions alone to help secure peace and democracy in Afghanistan? Is it not the case that international society now needs to spend more effort on civil society, on political processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e614	I think the representative, Valle, is going to read the alternative budgets of the Advance Party a little more thoroughly before she goes into that kind of statement. What is a fact is that after 11 September 2001, the Progress Party broke down to provide further appropriations for Afghanistan. Of all the parties in the Great Britain, we were the party that proposed the highest amount on the humanitarian side. We have done so in many other contexts too, because we stand by what we have said about the need for reinforced efforts in neighbourhoods. In areas by region, the Progress Party has done this in repeated budgets, and we have nothing to be ashamed of in this respect. If Ågot Valle is to be attacked because the Advance Party cuts parts of the aid budget, yes, I will accept it. We will certainly do that in the 2007 budget as well. But we are very focused on where we cut and where we strengthen. One of the areas for which there is clearly an agreement to have an reinforcement is Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e623	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e626	This debate gives the impression that the situation in South Afghanistan is as it has been for a long time, that there has been no change. However, the situation in South Afghanistan has deteriorated significantly over the late summer period, becoming considerably more unstable. That is why NATO has asked for further strength. So there's a new situation, which we've seen in the last few days, that has made NATO so committed to making extra contributions to the operations in South Afghanistan. We think it is sad that the situation has not evolved better in Afghanistan. I think everyone thinks so. But it's not that the answer to a worsening situation is that everything should be as it has been before. That is also why the Government’s decision not to send the Norwegian Special Force to southern Afghanistan has brought international attention. The news was quickly captured by both Reuter, Associated Press and French media. There were press reports of our own in Canada, one of our allies, who are present in South Afghanistan, and who need our help in common war against a common enemy. NATO Secretary-General, Jaap de Hoop Scheffers, expressed its opinion in the NRK on 19 October worldwide: the Special Forces would have facilitated the implementation of civil reconstruction measures in southern Afghanistan. In other words, the civil reconstruction effort has become more difficult because of the Government’s decision. Also, the United States and the United Kingdom have criticized the Government, and last week, NATO's spokesman also spoke out and said, "If we don't get more strengths and better contributions, it will take longer, and it will cause greater losses to carry out the operations we're set to do. Greater losses – that is, greater losses for the United Kingdom, Denmark, the Netherlands, Canada and the United States. So the countries that we in NATO define as our closest allies, and with which we operate the most, are those that are now getting more losses because we don't contribute. However, none of the entries in the international news agencies mentioned the Mongstad case, the relationship between SV and their coalition partners, or, for that matter, the gap between SV and the rest of the Stortinge in foreign and security policy. Internationally, there are only two points of interest: what NATO is asking for, and what Norway is responding to. And the question is asked: Has Norway changed its policy? This government talked a year ago a lot about openness to the Storting, openness to the voters and about being friends of theirs. Wholeness assessment, that's the answer we get repeatedly from the Government when it comes to why we don't participate. But we don't get a response to what the elements of this overall assessment are. Is that money? Is there a lack of strength? Are the strengths to be used elsewhere? What are the negatives and the reasons why we don't participate now? It doesn't answer the government, no matter how much time they spend answering. The truth may be that when the newspapers report from dinner talks between NATO Secretary-General and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, the SV's participation in the Government is obviously one of the most important elements. I'm actually going to give praise to Bjorn Jacobsen, who in the class game last Thursday said what we all knew: ‘This is a great relief. Here we approach the pain limit of the party.» But I think it would have been clearer if the government had talked out openly about its motives and its reasons and not ashamed of its own actions, as they obviously have to do, when you don't dare to talk about what was the real reason. The government has probably now learned that the Storting also has a pain limit. It was exceeded by a good margin by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence last Wednesday, but I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs takes self-criticism on behalf of the Government. I'm going to leave it alone, but I have to say, based on the consultations that have taken place with the Great Government about Afghanistan, that it should not surprise the Government that we thought we should have been informed about this. You can't even talk away from it. I do not want to refer to the content of the debates of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It's almost five years since NATO's defence war on the Taliban-led Afghanistan started. On the way, we've got victories and setbacks. The country has been given a democratically elected government, the construction of national army and police, the payment of services such as health and education, the improvement of women's position in several places in the country, and the construction of infrastructure. Nevertheless, it is descriptive when the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence admits that Norwegian soldiers will have to stand in Afghanistan for a long time. Some key aspects of the allied effort have not led to the desired results, at least not yet. For there is an infrastructure that still screams after upgrading, that the electricity grid in Kabul does not have more capacity than in the time of the Russian occupation, of increasing drug exports to Norway, with all that it entails, and of continued corruption in Afghanistan. There is also a situation in which the Taliban is increasing its strength in South Afghanistan and Al Qaida is following heels and has not yet announced its agenda for terrorism far beyond the borders of both Afghanistan and the Middle East. That is why we all agree that a genuine commitment to civil reconstruction, service provision and stabilisation is absolutely essential for the development, peace and predictability of the Afghans. We'd like to have a discussion about how to do it. It is both pro and counter to the choice that Norway has made, for example. by investing so much through the government of Afghanistan. But in the long term, we have done so, because it should contribute to the legitimacy of that government – the same discussion that we have had about the relationship between Hezbollah and the government of Lebanon in terms of reconstruction there. But at the same time, I believe that the Government, through its public statements last week, is involved in building up a kind of contradiction between civil and military efforts, when we actually need more of both. Olav Aksensen said that the security situation in Afghanistan is hampering the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Yes, then the answer should be both money for reconstruction and further participation to improve the security situation. Today’s Afghanistan is a place where civil efforts cannot be carried out without military back coverage, because unfortunately there are strong forces in the country that will not have peaceful development, stability and economic development and the fight against poverty, unless they themselves sit with all the cards and reap the gain themselves. Also, the voluntary organisations at home, which make an important effort, seem to believe that civil efforts require the security that military forces can provide, either in the north, in the south or otherwise in Afghanistan. One question the voluntary organisations are asking – and I think that is quite timely, we can agree to discuss this – is how the division of labour should be between civil organisations and military departments, and not unnatural how large the aid portfolio should be from Norway to Afghanistan. The situation in Meymaneh showed us that we have great soldiers in Afghanistan. If there is one thing this debate should not contribute to, then there is what each young SV representative has done, namely to harass one of the tasks he is doing in Afghanistan, and to burden the Norwegian soldiers with the fact that what they are doing should not be legitimate. It is also important for us to say that it is important for Norway that NATO succeeds in Afghanistan. If NATO fails to succeed in Afghanistan, it will contribute to a weakened NATO. It is important for Afghanistan and for the Afghan people, but it is also important for our future in an allied security structure that NATO succeeds in the work being done in Afghanistan. And then we should not forget that the war on terror is also our war. Someone's trying to claim that we're engaged in a war on behalf of the United States or others. No, the war on terror is also Norway's war. It is the war to make all countries in Europe safer against terrorist attacks on our earth by reducing the space and the opportunities for terrorist organisations to build up. These are elements that we must not forget in the discussion that is. But the question that remains after the speeches I have heard so far is: What must happen in the future that the Government will change its attitude? When does the overall assessment change when we don't even hear what the content of the overall assessment really is?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e680	Let me first make it clear that today's government has not taken any decision to withdraw from Afghanistan, so Norway will be present and take responsibility for the security situation in the country. I respect the fact that Right has a different view of the question of whether one should send additional forces to Afghanistan now. What I have more difficult to understand is why an attempt to resolve this matter is not to make a specific request to send forces to Afghanistan, but actually Norway's relationship with NATO. Norway has said no to NATO's calls many times before. It's a situation that also applies to many other NATO countries. It has often led to disappointment and disappointing announcements from NATO representatives. Such was the case when the previous government withdrew from Kosovo in a very dramatic situation. My question is, why is it unproblematic when the Right is in government, to take these kinds of decisions in relation to NATO, while when today's government decides to carry on an activity, it's actually a danger to our relationship with the same organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e689	I have previously in a line change reverse road with the Olav Akssen explained the reason why we were ‘getting out’ of Kosovo. We didn't pull out. We sent helicopter forces instead of military forces. We did it because we built up in Afghanistan and were going to participate more in Afghanistan, and it was with the Workers' Party's support that we did this. Yes, NATO would like us to have more forces to deploy in total. But we justified it with – and we were open about the justification – the total amount of strength, and we prioritised at that time another operation, another participation, in Afghanistan. There are no answers from the Government now on what they prioritize instead. Everyone knows that the 150 special forces have been waiting to travel. Everyone can read in the newspapers that this has been a domestic policy issue. Then it becomes like we said in the election campaign, that with SV with the foot inside, with SV in the government offices, one will weaken our participation in NATO. That's what we see, because now the government has bent away, as the Labour Party promised us in the election campaign that they would not do to the Swedish Security Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e698	We're in Afghanistan, we're going to be there for a long time, and we're going to be there in the long term. There's no doubt about it. I see that the right is also trying to make a very good point of this with SV. Yes, I was happy when the decision came, assuming that we had been heard, our arguments were good enough to also tolerate a government treatment. But if you read Bergen's Official Journal today, you will see that I also admit that yes, we can in future also consider special forces. But let's start discussing what's important, how to solve the problems in Afghanistan. We also know that there is a lot of politics in this. In the 1980s, the slogan ‘Soviet out of Afghanistan’ was. In the Afghanistan Committee, the Right and RV were the most active. We also know that then a campaign started to build up the Taliban, to build bin Laden, etc. Well, we know that's our own gimp we're now fighting. We know that Colin Powell, former U.S. Secretary of State, says it outright: he doubts the moral basis of this so-called war on terror. Does Right also see that maybe we should change course a little, stick our finger in the ground, consider how Norway can contribute humanitarianly and civilly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e705	We contribute humanitarianly and civilly. We have had a high priority in Afghanistan for many years. We sat in the chair to make contributions to Afghanistan when we were in government. I wish we'd spent more money internationally building up also the civil sides of Afghanistan. It is a problem that the Taliban pay cash to its soldiers, while the soldiers in the government army do not fully know if they are paid. It creates a little different motivation in a country of this kind. There's a lot we can discuss more about this, but it's not at the expense of the question: can we create security too? We also need to create security, and that is the question of participation with the special forces. Should you create security while taking other initiatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e710	The representative Erna Solberg said many things in his article, but among other things. Yes, thank you, both, we need more military efforts and more civil efforts. I guess we don't have a direct disagreement with that. But if we look at what these two parts cost financially, we see that the military effort has cost significantly more than the civil effort. Then I wonder, if we say uncritically that we want more to both sides, there's still a gap between civil and military efforts. How does the Right consider the possibility of success if this bias is maintained? Or does the Right agree that to succeed militarily, there must be a further effort on the civilian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e715	It is that military forces are more expensive than many other activities when they are first deployed, apparently. But they're the prerequisite for actually getting in with civil help. That's the same discussion about whether we're going to contribute to Darfur. So we're not going to be able to be safe around the civil aid in Darfur, for which I understand that the government is very concerned, but we also have forces that contribute to a security situation where one gets to the end of the killings, on the rapes, on the hierarchy of people going on. That's what needs to be done, while providing food, education, infrastructure and building up a development. To do something else would be to say that we accept the return of women in Afghanistan to a Taliban regime. I don't think we should do that, that once again we make Afghanistan an area where the terrorists engaged in terrorist acts against western targets actually get a new safe area to be in. That is why we have to do both, and I have never heard from the government parties before that there was money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e722	I don't think anyone in this room thinks that women in Afghanistan are going to have to reintroduce a regime of terror under the Taliban. But when you listen to Erna Solberg, it sounds like Norway is not contributing forces to Afghanistan at all. But we're one of the big contributors, and this government has actually increased the number of forces in Afghanistan, setting up the ISAF forces as first priority. It also appears that Norway is the only country to be asked for forces. When I sat and heard the representative Solberg go through the entire international press, it seemed that Norway is the only country that has been asked, and that we are the only ones who can contribute. Now, in fact, there are a lot of other tone-provoking NATO countries that have just said no – others have said yes. At the next intersection, it could be the opposite. But I would like to ask the representative: can it not be that Norway's ongoing assessments of what operations we are going to participate in, and responses to requests from NATO, are an indication of our loyalty as NATO ally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e729	In my opinion, and I would have understood that was also the Government's opinion, Afghanistan is our main international commitment. In addition, Afghanistan is currently one of NATO’s major international exposures, and it is essential for NATO’s development and for NATO’s strength in the ongoing discussion, for example. in Europe, where the focus is on defence and security policy, that NATO is also proving itself to be an organisation capable of meeting these challenges. That's why, when NATO so earnestly asks for extra help, and we have the strengths -- it's something completely different when we don't have the strengths, if we don't have the capacities, but we have the strengths -- and we say no based on a diffuse global assessment, in fact, so that we know how NATO perceives Norway as a credible participant. Norway is more dependent on NATO — we are more dependent on proving internally in NATO that we are participating — than many of the countries that participate incredibly many other places in the world, and at the same time are involved in building a European security dimension that helps them to stand on two feet, while we still have one main foot to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e734	I would also like to stress that we, on the Norwegian side, contribute to a high military level in Afghanistan. I am not surprised that NATO of course officially regrets that we do not follow up on the further request, but it has done so after an assessment in Norway. Erna Solberg is trying, as Marit Nybakk was, to present it as if it were a changed policy, and that we were going to fail NATO cooperation in Afghanistan, while the changed policy has actually helped to increase our presence militarily. I'm going to repeat to Erna Solberg the questions I also asked to Siv Jensen, but I didn't get the answer: aren't those countries that have refused to increase their military strength contributions, their NATO commitments, and are they a threat to NATO cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e742	It depends on what kind of arguments they've used for why they've declined. Some do it because they're in a large-scale operation in Congo, with a lot of strength, to help with the situation there. Few countries have concentrated as much on Afghanistan as on Norway. There are countries that contribute more. There are some countries that have so far said no. And then the question is, how does the government think that, for domestic policy reasons, we have said no when we had forces available, will affect the other countries that might have participated, but that seem to be a little bit low on a global scale? What an apology is our answer for other countries. But the fundamental question is: if we want NATO to succeed in Afghanistan, we must contribute. Then we also have to contribute, as the president of the Center Party said, to the operations that make us dirty at our hands, and in the difficult tasks. Then I think that when we have free capacity, we should have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e749	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e752	I would like to thank both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence for their good presentation today, which shows that the Government has made a wise decision not to extend our military participation in Afghanistan now. Instead of saying that the Government will not send special forces to Afghanistan, the opposition should ask whether the contributions of the international community over the past five years have been of benefit to the Afghans and to the fragile Afghan democracy. According to the think tank Senlis Council, which also has offices in Afghanistan, and many other sources, the international community has spent ten to eleven times more on military operations than on development in Afghanistan. The American-led pursuit of terrorists has overshadowed humanitarian efforts. The red-green government does what the previous government should have done. We are correcting the imbalance between the effort on military operations and the contribution to building up the nation of Afghanistan, the contribution of the steady Afghans to the belief that the international community will actually help him or her to a better life. This trust must be promoted. I'm actually proud to have a foreign minister who says what it didn't do before, namely that there is no unilateral military solution for Afghanistan, just a political and civil solution. The Bondevik government was so busy contributing to the US war on terror that they never really took over the difficulties in Afghanistan. What the government is doing now is promoting a comprehensive strategy. Its focus is on the reconstruction of the country, the development and establishment of democratic constitutional institutions. The ISAF forces shall do what the mandate says: contribute to stability and support the elected government. We must listen to the debate that is taking place in many NATO countries. It is the overall strategy in Afghanistan that must now be discussed. The former British defense chief says to The Observer: ‘I don’t think we have a clear strategy, either in Afghanistan or Iraq.’ The same goes for researchers Arne Strand and Astrid Surkhe from CMI. And they add: it's the strategy that needs to be discussed, and not the number of soldiers or Norway's duties towards our military allies. This is important for NATO's part, but not least for Afghanistan's part. If NATO does not succeed, it may have dramatic consequences for the country. That is what the international community, NATO and the UN included, must contribute to. Let's see what happened in Afghanistan under the U.S.-led Operation Enduring Freedom. The consequences have become clear in South Afghanistan, where the OEF has been responsible for a few months ago. Warfare and the hunt for Taliban soldiers have made the population feel worse, not better. For each bomb that has fallen, for each resident who was injured or killed, the Taliban engulfment increased. Instead of waging war against hunger and poverty, the war against terrorists has been superior to it. «When you first came here, we were happy to see you. Now we have lived with you in the country for five years, and we have seen that you have told us lies and made a lot of false promises." This is what a former Mujahedin commander says in a report published by the Senlis Council. Another commander says this: "The foreigners came here and said they would help the poor people and improve the economic situation. But they've only spent money on military operations. The poor are poorer than the Taliban.’ It is obvious that this is part of the explanation that the Taliban and other rebel forces have been strengthened, the explanation of constant attacks, unrest and uncertainty. The UK Minister of Defence recently warned of the danger that more Taliban-killers could motivate others and thus make the conflict even worse. Hamid Karzai has asked several times that NATO forces take greater account of the civilian population, not later than after 20 people were killed in NATO attacks last week. According to the Refugee Aid, unrest and attacks have led to 80 000 to 90 000 now being driven on an internal flight. In total, there are 200,000 internally displaced persons in South Afghanistan. It is this situation that undermines the position of the Afghan Government. Several of those who know Afghanistan strongly warn against combining military and humanitarian contributions. Those who assist are clear that military missions and assistance must not be confused, but that it is NATO's task to secure the humanitarian space. NATO must follow the international law of war, which the US-led OEF has not done. The Bagram prison has become a place of horror, with its many stories of torture and gross assault. It is therefore a good starting point for Norway that the Minister of Defence has concluded a bilateral agreement for the treatment of prisoners with Afghanistan. The overall strategy for the international community must now follow three lines: building security, political processes and assistance to build confidence in central government and the nation of Afghanistan, ensuring that Afghan women and men see results now. Karzai's government must be strengthened and made visible, so that the Afghan people see that it is the one who builds up the nation and makes improvements for people. Security means, among other things: strengthening the judiciary and the police, the base of a legal state that people can trust. It was also the clear message when Special Adviser Kai Eide recently visited Kabul. A report from Amnesty International states: ‘The police, prison system and justice system in Afghanistan are in no way capable of protecting the civilian population’. That is what is now recognised. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a good and thorough statement showing that the efforts of the international community need to be strengthened and coordinated. One important aspect he had in mind was that more of the efforts have to be made through Afghan authorities and Afghan NGOs in order for the civilian population to have confidence – seagoing with the necessary control, because corruption is widespread. A good example is the national solidarity programme focusing on rural development and, in particular, cooperation with women’s committees. These are 1325 tasks, women, peace and security, put in the system. The situation of women is alarming and even more so if the Taliban returned to power. 70 pst. girls in Afghanistan are not allowed to learn to read and write. In Norway, one to two in 100,000 women die in pregnancy. In Afghanistan, the number is 1,600. If you take on average every woman has six to seven children, that means every ten women can expect to die in pregnancy. A political process involves the need for Afghan authorities to have dialogue with all key opposition groups with whom it is possible to have dialogue. Gradually, we have recognised that in most conflicts, dialogue is better than total isolation, if possible. The progress party is high on the track with its criticism. Siv Jensen was deeply shocked when the government would not send special forces now. In the change of line with Siv Jensen, I concluded that the 2006 Progress Party proposed to cut aid to Asia by 460 million. kr. With only 50 million. kr back there would not be much to build a nation in Afghanistan. Since the exchange of lines with Siv Jensen, I have checked the comments from Siv Jensen on the support for Afghanistan. So there is not a single word in the 2006 alternative budget of the Progress Party on Afghanistan and the importance of strengthening humanitarian work there. If this is a policy that the Progress Party and Siv Jensen have joined in the course of the last few days' debate, I think it is positive, but it is indeed true that there is nothing about Afghanistan in the alternative budget of the Progress Party. The Progress Party and the Heavy People of the Other Civilian Parties are distinguished by the use of Krass word for the Government's decision. It's worth noting. It's a saying that in that case affects a majority of the population, we should believe the polls, and a majority of our allies as per. Today, the same position has been adopted as in Norway. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for good and reflected presentations. The government takes the situation in Afghanistan seriously and has recognised the need for a comprehensive strategy of reconstruction and development at the centre, and with a necessary military presence supporting this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e812	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Left with the winner. SV's NATO resistance was well known to all of us, but there's a big difference between being an opponent of NATO membership and not having to stand up for our allies in an organization that we're actually a member of, and where we have perfectly clear commitments. Is it really comfortable in the Socialist Left that we here to the degrees undermine our security policy credibility, as we refuse to stand up in a clearly defined Article 5 operation, which also has a UN mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e821	Now this is not an obvious Article 5 operation, as the Minister of Defence has also said earlier. SV has come through with good arguments, but there is, of course, an overall government behind the decision that has now been taken. And then I think that what has emerged in the debate, and which is now also part of the Progress Party, will be too small. It's getting too small in that way that you don't ask enough questions as to whether it's Afghanistan that's at the center here. So we have to ask ourselves: has enough humanitarian aid been spent on the construction of the nation of Afghanistan? No, it doesn't. When the international community has spent 10–11 times more on military operations, it means that there is no balance in that build-up. And that's what the Progress Party and others now have to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e831	Ågot Valle said we had used strong words. I believe we have covering for every word we have used. But let me say that those who have really used strong words about the situation in Afghanistan are representatives from SV and SU. Those who have used strong words to degrade the work of Norwegian soldiers are SV and SU — especially the latter. On the day of the rejection of NATO, the head of Socialist Youth, SV’s youth organisation, stated that the Norwegian soldiers were not to be sent to South Afghanistan to ‘swallow down the civilian population’. Is this the SV's perception of what the mandate given by the United Nations is, and what is the involvement in Afghanistan? Or Ågot Valle may lament this on behalf of SV and SU, and make sure that the head of the SU does not continue to limp down on the involvement of Norwegian soldiers and on the important work they do, among other things. to provide a basis for women in Afghanistan to have a future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e836	It's freedom of speech in this country. And SV has not at all trodden down on the efforts of our ISAF forces in northern Afghanistan. But I'm asking that Erna Solberg and others relate to what we're saying here in the hall, and what we're saying is, we're going to be in the north, and we're going to support under the ISAF forces. The ISAF forces have as their mandate to patrol, secure the civilian population and secure the space for the humanitarian contribution. Then I'm very happy that Erna Solberg said in her post that she would be involved in the discussion about the role distribution. It is very important to be clear that the military are going to do their part of the job, and that the humanitarian organisations are going to do their part of the job. I would like to say once again that the contribution of the international community must now have security, building up under political processes and building up under development as an overall strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e845	There has been a lot of focus on SV in this debate, and it's not that strange, based on the SV's known relationship with NATO and with the United States. We have heard in the debate that we have more soldiers in Afghanistan now than we have ever had. There are no restrictions on where these soldiers can participate, in the north or in the south, and there are no restrictions on the type of personnel. That's the time. It's not today, but it can be tomorrow. We have heard the representative Ågot Valle say that it has been wise to speak both from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and from the Minister for Defence. Then I assume that SV is behind what has been said here. Then is my question to the representative Ågot Valle: is it so that we can welcome SV in the large NATO family on Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e854	I have to say again that I think, frankly, that this is getting too small. It is therefore not about whether SV supports NATO as such, but about the overall contribution we have to make in Afghanistan to give the Afghan woman and man a viable life and that they really need to have confidence in what the Karzai government is doing. That is when we say that the ISAF forces that we have in Afghanistan must both secure the civilian population, and that have a clear mandate to patrol and secure the civilian population, and build up under the political processes – which also means that the Karzai government must engage in dialogue with the rebel forces of different denominations. And then we have to increase the rate of humanitarian aid, so that we do not get the situation that I described again, with comments from the Afghan people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e859	I notice that Ågot Valle has repeatedly thought it is too ‘moderate’ to talk about SV in this debate. However, I choose to make myself so small, by just stating that the core of this debate is the concern that SV in the government has succeeded in turning a wedge into the broad security alliance we have always had in Norway, and that has included everyone outside SV. That's the nucleus. For example, in the 2005 budget for SV, it was proposed to cut the defence budget by DKK 3 billion. A few days ago, I sent a question to the Minister of Finance, also the head of the SV, about the consequences of this proposal being promoted this year, in the 2007 budget. The answer came Friday. It says that there is no feasible policy. It is not possible to propose it in one financial year; it requires a long-term budget in order to achieve it. The SV’s leader and finance minister then said that SV stood in opposition in the area of security and defence policy, which is not feasible. I hope to get some insurance from Ågot Valle that the opposition should not worry about SV. Will she stand behind what SV's leader here has said, that we should not notice what SV did in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e865	Of course, I am behind SV's leader. What she's saying is that here it has to be long-term. And then we get back to that discussion. But what I'm asking Lars Sponheim and others to deal with is what we, together with the other government partners, have proposed in 2006 and what we are proposing for 2007. So I'll never in any way think of saying that Lars Sponheim is small. It's in the debate it's getting too small, because that's Afghanistan we have to focus on. We need to make a contribution so that the Afghan people can be confident that the international community will actually help them get a living life, so that they won't once again be disappointed by the promises given and not kept. That is what must be at the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e872	The representative of Ågot Valle continues to give a distorted picture of the relations between the Progress Party and humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. In the autumn of 2001 we were very quick to propose a reasonably large amount for which we did not fully appreciate, among other things. SV would not follow us on that. But back to the military support we've been in Afghanistan for years now, which is not SV's profit from the beginning. Does SV recognise that the military has also played a role in Afghanistan to at least initially get rid of a Taliban regime in Kabul and provide a basis for a positive development in that country? Then we agree that there are many challenges. Ågot Valle has illuminated several of them in an excellent way. But military presence is also a necessity for a free Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e881	I refer to what the Progress Party proposed for 2006. It is a fact that when it came to regional allocations for Asia, the Progress Party proposed cutting by 460 million. So it's going to be 50 million kroner. kr again to Asia, and there won't be much to build a nation in Afghanistan. Then it is that SV has constantly supported the ISAF forces, with the mandate of the ISAF forces. SV has been involved in increasing the contribution to the ISAF forces in this government. Yes, we recognize that this must be a military contribution. But then I want both the Advance Party and others to take part in the discussion that is taking place in NATO: is the strategy correct? Because that's absolutely right, NATO cannot fail in this contribution right now. Neither Afghanistan nor NATO can afford it. We have to be able to cost ourselves the discussion about how is the strategy to succeed in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e890	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e893	Unfortunately, this big debate has forced itself for three reasons: the government has dealt badly with the issue of Stortinget, and with our allies and Afghanistan, and the government broke with the tradition of seeking broad agreement on security policy. Therefore, my first critical point is this: in this case, the government has deviated from the good tradition of seeking broad consensus on the lines of security policy. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important objective to contribute to a responsible security policy and seek broad consensus. Having broad support within external policies is important for any nation. For a small country such as Norway, this is of particular importance. To work effectively for peace and security is a broad anchoring, predictability and action of great importance. There could be reason to add to this criticism of the Government. However, the Christian People's Party will not contribute to the matter being more polarized than it already is. Instead, we want to help the government now get the chance to correct the mistakes from yesterday, as it has today clearly stated its intention. Secondly, the matter has been handled badly against our allies and Afghanistan. First, the Government commits itself to giving priority to Afghanistan with regard to Norwegian strength contributions. But when NATO asks for strength contributions in a critical situation, the Government decides to say ‘empty’ no. If it were the case that we had not had the relevant strengths or capacity available, it would have been easier to understand this. But the defense's political as well as professional leadership had confirmed that we had available forces. This, of course, knows our allies. Therefore, the rejection of the enquiry creates extra reactions. It is easy to see the heartache of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Espen Barth Eide, who said before the weekend: “Of course, it would have been better if we could come to NATO and say that we could send more people. It had been noted positively, especially when it is known that we have a resource of 150 special soldiers available." In the Christian People's Party, however, we choose to focus on the following three aspects: the government's security policy management was initially prepared to contribute. The decision was presented as a situational one. The government has opened up to contribute the strength contributions in question if they are re-requested. That possibility may be given to the Government in a relatively short time. We will not contribute to the fact that at the next crossroads it is more difficult for the Government to act more solidarity than it has done at this crossroads. Thirdly, it is obvious that the government has handled the matter badly against Stortinget. Here I have noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement, is dealing with an unfortunate situation, the Government has learned from what has happened, and he will base the opposition's understanding on this point in the future. That's wise speech. I will give the Foreign Minister credit for the admission and attitude he has expressed here to the Stortinget. It would also have been possible to have a debate that was more focused on how best to fulfil the mandate of the NATO-led ISAF force, if the Government had been able to answer the question more openly: what is behind the overall assessment that has led to the rejection of NATO's request by this crossroads? So far in the debate we have not received an answer to that question. I think the government would have made good on this point, too, to show a somewhat greater degree of condolences to the questions raised by the opposition. The basis of international law for what we do in Afghanistan is strong. The UN has given the mandate to ISAF, the international stabilisation force in Afghanistan. It is also the UN that has given NATO command responsibilities, and all NATO countries have supported the current Afghanistan Operation Plan. This is the most demanding task NATO has ever undertaken, and it is vital that the mission succeeds – both for Afghanistan, for the fight against terrorism and for NATO’s credibility. If peace is to be won, a broad approach and great resources are required. This broad approach calls for a dynamic interaction between three basic areas of action: peace building, national construction and economic recovery and development. It is essential that this benefits the smooth Afghans. To date, these elements have not been well balanced and the world community has not contributed the required resources, either to military stabilisation or to development assistance. This will make the political reform process more difficult. The consequences should concern all those who are engaged in peacemaking. The nation building is moving slowly. The government of President Karzai has control over a limited area and a small part of its economy, while local warlords and fundamentalist Taliban groups exploit the vacuum of power in the regions. Economic recovery and development are slowing down. In the absence of progress, opium production, crime and corruption are gaining pace as shortcuts out of human hopelessness. Peacebuilding is facing new problems. Weak security increases the play area for the armed opposition. The Taliban exploits this, and bullys road bombs, suicide bombers, and other attacks. It leads to military countermeasures. As always, the people are affected by the warfare, from all sides. Stability and security are not enough in themselves, but it is a prerequisite for political and economic reconstruction to be rooted. This context is underlined by NATO's commander-in-chief in Afghanistan as well as by the Norwegian commander-in-chief. Former NATO top Wesley Clark pointed it out recently: the real war is not military, it is political and economic. In our view, the government must follow several lines in parallel in order to give the Afghan people a future of peace: Norway must work actively to increase the humanitarian aid of the international community and strengthen economic recovery in Afghanistan. I particularly encourage the Government to better facilitate the efforts of our own non-governmental organisations. Norway has to work actively to ensure that the UN mandate to ISAF can be implemented and the mission is successful. We must actively contribute to the strategic discussions in NATO and in other forums. We must show solidarity with NATO allies and assist when necessary – we have available forces. It's one of the pillars of the defense alliance that we contribute with other allies when it's necessary, simply because that day can come when we depend on our allies to stand up for us. The scope and arrangement of Norwegian power contributions is the responsibility of the Government to provide us with reasoned proposals. Unfortunately, this matter came out in the relationship between big business and government. This was due to an unprofessional handling of the relationship with the bodies of the Storting, and it was due to a decision that came very surprisingly on the whole political opposition. There was an open debate in the media on these issues, but the government did not find it right to come to the bodies of the Storting before the decision was announced in public space. I have noted this with satisfaction that the Government has learned from, and that it will align itself differently in the future. What matters then is the opening that the Government has given itself, that it is basically open to taking action across Afghanistan, it is basically open to all sorts of personnel, and it is basically open to any time to reconsider the strength contribution that Norway has today. There is an important conclusion from this process. That means that the government has given itself a foundation for responding to new requests that had to come from NATO. We will, on the part of the Christian People's Party, support such an open attitude. We will support an increased commitment to nation-building, development and humanitarian contributions, and above all we will expect another type of interaction between magnification and government in this important security policy area than what we have seen in this case, which was so full of misrepresentation. Only with a good interaction between different bodies, both civil and military, can the people of Afghanistan get a new hope for the future, poverty overcomes and democratic national construction gains confidence. And so peace can be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e940	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e943	The representative Højbräten said that the Christian People's Party would not help to polarize the matter further. It is to be praised by the Christian People's Party, for no one is worthy of it. We have heard in the presentations today that the challenges in Afghanistan are great and can only be solved through broad, long-term and international engagement, and that stability, reconstruction and economic and social progress in Afghanistan cannot be achieved with military units alone. And the better we succeed in the civil field, the less we will be dependent on military instruments. Therefore, my question to the representative Højbräten: Does the Christian People's Party think that there is a need for a change of pace now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e950	It should be apparent from my statement that the Christian People's Party agrees with the assessment that a change of pace is needed. But we believe that there is a need for a shift of pace along several dimensions, not only along the humanitarian and development policy, but also along the military dimension. We believe it was unwise for the Government to reject the request to make a contribution as it stands in our power to make, when the request comes from our NATO allies, from which we rely upon the support of. We say yes to a change of pace, but yes to a change of pace along a whole of politics, both military, developmental and humanitarian.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e955	In a chronicle, the Afghanistan authorities Arne Strand and Astri Suhrke say: ‘In the villages they now join the resistance side for several reasons’. An important reason is ‘a sense of unfulfilled promises of assistance and security’. Further: ‘Foreign forces are flashed like scapegoats, and many feel a legitimate sense after seeing the bombs of mosques and villages, invade homes and kill or arrest the inhabitants.’ To date, over the five years that have passed, ten times more has been spent on military operations in Afghanistan than on development. Why did the Christian People's Party never ask itself in its time of government, when one had a Minister of Development from the Christian People's Party, if one was on the right path in Afghanistan, if not too much was focused on the fight against terrorists and too little on the fight against poverty and for a decent life for the Afghans?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e970	To say it that way, I'm happy to get this question. If the representative Valle has the idea that the Christian People's Party has thought over time that everything is very well in Afghanistan, and that no adjustment is needed by the policy, then she is completely wrong. Of course, all those who are close to these issues see that developments in Afghanistan, especially in recent times, have not gone in a positive direction and that it is not perceived positively by many Afghans. That's one of the main problems. But we can't pick one here either-- or. We need to focus more on development and humanitarian aid, as the Government has declared it will. And I have from the first day when this became known in the hiking hall, in all I've said, supported the government at that point. The problem is that the government will not invest in the increased security effort that NATO believes is necessary, by saying no to send forces we have ready and could have sent in the day. This is the problem of the Government and the SV in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e975	I note the criticism that the representative is making, and it takes us seriously. I still feel that this post had a completely different value than the previous posts we have had from the opposition party, and I think it is very commendable that the Christian People's Party's leader today says that he will not contribute to polarising the debate today further. To me, it seems, unfortunately, that other representatives from the opposition have had it as their goal. I could well imagine that the Højbråt could comment on whether it is such that someone has tried to exploit this matter for domestic policy reasons. I could also imagine knowing whether it is the Christian People's Party that has contributed to the opposition today not making any suggestions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e981	In a debate it is important to listen to each other, and in this debate I have listened to a humble foreign minister who has taken self-criticism and said he has learned. And it's clear that we have to base that on. When you hear such a strong political statement from the Parliamentary Chair, you can't go on as if you haven't got it with you. The Christian People's Party is responsible for the criticism that we have made in this matter, both in terms of the handling now on Stortinget, and in terms of the content of the matter. We have never planned to make any proposal in Stortinget. It would be a little strange to criticise the Government for creating a division in an important foreign and security policy area by not taking into account the pursuit of a broad consensus, if the Christian People's Party would then promote a proposal that would just demonstrate such a division and disunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e991	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e994	Let me begin by saying thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to the Minister for Defence for a very thorough presentation. The Central Party will reject the attempts made by the opposition or by others to make it appear that the Government’s decision on NATO’s request for additional troops contribution is a change in Norway’s relationship with NATO or Norway’s willingness to stand up to the Afghan people. Norway shall take heavy lifting in Afghanistan. We knew that when we went in. This exposure would become a long-term commitment to nation-building in the country. We're not just going to build, but we're still going to facilitate, and we're going to contribute. This is the main line of Norwegian military and Norwegian humanitarian aid. Norway is the country that, together with the Netherlands, contributes most militarily to all NATO allies in relation to the population, with about 550 soldiers. I note that other countries have said no to expand their strengths or to contribute strengths. It is, and will be, an ongoing debate on what is best served by Afghanistan and the rest of the world in this matter. Norway is thus not in any particular class. Norway has agreed to stand still in Lebanon, and we are prepared to stand still in Darfur. The centre party is not in principle opposed to sending Norwegian forces to South Afghanistan. We already have some sanitizers in the area. Our efforts are concentrated in northern Afghanistan. However, in principle, the Norwegian rapid reaction force in northern Afghanistan may be deployed in all parts of Afghanistan if a critical situation needs to be addressed. This could be a situation similar to that of Meymaneh in February of this year, when the Norwegian PRT force received reinforcements from a British rapid reaction force. Norway is a major contributor in NATO and to ISAF in particular, and there is no drama about the fact that we are not sending special forces to Afghanistan now. Norway has a significant contribution to the ISAF operation in Afghanistan, which has increased during this government. This government has provided for an escalation of our total military foreign exposure, compared to what was when we took over after the previous government. When our UNIFIL contributions begin their service tomorrow, we have about 790 soldiers in international operations. In comparison, we had about 520 at the end of the period of the previous government. In Afghanistan, as I have mentioned, there are 550 soldiers serving in ISAF. The previous government had about 470 soldiers in Afghanistan, but only about 390 of them participated in ISAF. Norway’s contribution in Afghanistan must also be viewed against other operational needs and against priorities for Norway’s contribution to other international operations. We have a significant contribution to the UNIFIL operation off the coast of Lebanon. In addition, we are planning for a contribution to a possible UN operation in Darfur. It is also important to have access to staff in Norway who, at short notice, can reinforce our outpatient departments if there is a need to do so, as we learned in Maymaneh. Let me therefore repeat that I see nothing abnormal in answering neither confirmatory nor confirmatory to a request from NATO. Such enquiries are regularly made by all Member States and are carefully and seriously assessed on the basis of an overall assessment. That's how the government did it in this case, as it did in Lebanon. The Afghan people have lived for centuries with warlords and occupation. It is quite natural that they seek security and peace. It must be clear to them that ISAF is a more trusted actor than the Taliban in the short and long term. Our and the other ISAF forces in Afghanistan shall be associated with such a visible difference. Unfortunately, we're not quite there yet. Therefore, a clear and clear division of roles between civil and military activities and actors is important. The main problem in Afghanistan is not military, but that the international community has failed in humanitarian efforts. The expectations of civil action have not been met. If we continue like this, we may end up losing the final battle, no matter what military contribution. It reminds me of the Greek army commander Phyrros, who experienced that he was victorious in the battlefield, but was tapped for soldiers and material. He said, "If I win the next battle, I lose the fight." I find it strange that the opposition is not similarly concerned with the civil construction in Afghanistan, but is so concerned only with the military. Humanitarian aid — water, food and schooling with much more — needs to be provided. The UN has launched a drying appeal for North Afghanistan, which is planned to be extended to South Afghanistan. From the Norwegian side, we will grant substantial funds through this appeal. It is a general wish for the Central Party and for the Government to strengthen the United Nations' coordinating role in Afghanistan. This is why the Centre Party is pleased with Norway’s long-term development cooperation with Afghanistan and that it is concentrated in education — with particular emphasis on girls — well managed, public administration and rural development, including drug control. Furthermore, Norway has a significant humanitarian commitment, among other things, to refugees, humanitarian mine action, democracy and support for police and judiciary. Norwegian aid to Afghanistan between 2001 and 2005 amounted to approximately 350 million. kr per. years. The level in 2006 will be 400 million. kr per. This makes Norway the eighth largest donor. I feel secure in the Government's assessment that at this point there is increased civil assistance, training and humanitarian work that is central and most important. The international community has to show and prove that what we're contributing is a difference, so that we get something better. As the Centre Party sees it, the Government’s decision is not a principle decision, but based on an overall assessment of Norwegian efforts and how best to channel it. Norway is part of the NATO alliance and will, of course, always evaluate all enquiries thoroughly and seriously. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken the initiative in extending and coordinating humanitarian efforts, and this will be discussed at the NATO meeting in Riga in November. Such coordination – and the Central Party believes that the UN has the best competence to do so – is essential for our military contribution to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1035	I think there might be reason to initiate this article by reminding all of us of the relationship between magnification and government in the security, foreign and defence policy, the need to have an enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and the importance of the fact that over many years we have been able to establish such a broad consensus on security and foreign policy in this house as a basis for obtaining operational governments – regardless of colour, and regardless of majority or minority. In many ways, a government has a slightly different relationship with the Greatness of Security and Foreign Policy than in other areas. There is a need to be more active, to respond more quickly and to be more operational. It is therefore necessary to consult the bodies of Storting – as is the extended Foreign Affairs Committee. It is also important to bear in mind that the experience of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee over many years has shown that one in matters where the government comes with a view and a position to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, receives reactions to it and in reality anchors the position and makes a decision in the back – even in cases where one in and in particular may disagree with the government in their assessments – has given the government back coverage, because broad consensus is more important than exploiting or playing on what may be of disagreement in the matter. I believe one point – for those who have not yet received the strong reactions last Wednesday in the Government’s way of announcing this – is precisely that the opposition was deprived of the right or opportunity it has always had to give the Government back coverage and get information to be able to respond to this in public, which has been a quite bearer element, at my discretion. On the way, there was probably a lot of background for the strong reactions that came last Wednesday, which I think are quite timely, and which I believe the government parties have in fact completely taken over, as has been said in this room today both from the government team and from the government party in this house. The second important thing that is the background to these reactions is that it fed the uncertainty that I think has engulfed many in the opposition, but also in many others, about the role, the power, the importance of SV in the Government of Security and Foreign Policy. For those of us who remember so far back: in the campaign just over a year ago, this was also a central theme. There were very sound assurances from the head of the Workers' Party, the current Prime Minister, that SV would all become a full member of the Government, but Norwegian security and foreign policy would remain firm. The proud people. I think it was quite crucial that today's majority government got the government they got. I also believe most people experienced that this view from the election campaign was confirmed when the government was formed, by the Workers' Party having the Prime Minister also occupied the Foreign Minister's and Defence Minister's chair with safe and solid people. In many ways, there is probably much of the concern that SV should have significant influence on security policy. It must also be understood as a background for the reactions and uncertainties that occurred last Wednesday about what really happened. Anyone who has been in this room for many years knows SV as a party with both deep scepticism of the United States and resistance to NATO membership – it was central. There have been many interesting seminars, as well as some exchange of views here in Stortinget, but this was not due to the broad consensus we have had on safety policy in Norway. The new thing is that what was always a security policy opposition has escaped in a majority government – and therefore also a fear that SV would be able to push through its line. Since it is kind of blown away that there was some basis for that turmoil, and that last Wednesday gave it some kind of nourishment, I think it is important to remember that it was a special day. It started for all of us with news that SV threatened to stand in the plenary once again in the Afghanistan question. We got a newspaper headline in which the leader of the Central Party stressed the need for Norway to also take on the burdens – I think she called it the crap jobs – also in South Afghanistan, which had to be interpreted so that the Central Party, one of the parties in the Government, was very ready to make a positive decision. We've also seen similar from the working party team. It was the current background of what we saw under a little panic, arranged and perhaps also improvised the press meeting in the hiking hall to remove what could have become a bomb during the government. When at the same time we have reason to believe, based on what comes from many different sources – one must even go back no further than Wednesday before – that there was a significant uncertainty in the government about the gas power issue and the government's survival, one must understand last Wednesday that the government needed to bring down that uncertainty very quickly. There must be reasonable grounds to believe that there was a background for strong opposition reactions. It's enough that many of us have a growing concern that the government has bought some kind of inner peace in the hope that the problem will go away by itself, even though today's debate has helped to bring this down. But it's left's assessment that the price can be high for what we're all involved in paying. The influence and credibility of Norway as an alliance partner in NATO may be weakened by this. I'm not saying it is, but it can be. A solidarity we should have shown with hard-pressed alliance partners has been lacking. The shock in NATO and the most affected Member States has also been clearly expressed. It can't dismiss as ritual, something we've seen attempted on the part of the Government. The left looks seriously at this. If you're going to go through some of the explanations we've got from the Government, and all the words we've been met with, I've managed to catch up with five possibly bearing elements: it's a situational decision, it doesn't represent a change, the government will focus more on humanitarian action, other countries have also said no, and Norway is among the biggest contributors per. capita. So one could say, what is really in the government's emphasis that this is a situational decision? I have to admit that when I was standing in the hiking hall and then this arranged, the press meeting improvised and heard the word ‘situation-determined’ being used as often as ‘hallelujah’ in the Pentecost, my imagination was limited to Norwegian politics and to believing that it was the situation within the Government that was the basis for the situation. I thought it was a very honest foreign minister who stood there, and was on the verge even to comment on it like this. But there's clearly another situational determination, another situational relationship that lies behind it. I have a concern that the government has not had the really big picture in mind, because ISAF is one of NATO's largest operations – the first outside Europe. ISAF is thus a test piece for the alliance. About 31,000 soldiers from 37 countries inside and outside NATO are involved, and the U.S. soldiers have submitted to a non-American command. This is a model that may point towards future out of area operations. If NATO does not pass this test, Afghanistan is likely to be quickly taken over by the Taliban and local warlords. A new temptation for terrorists and gross violations of elementary civil rights, which will go hard on women, we will then be able to expect. Furthermore, extreme Islamists throughout the region will be able to sail in co-wind. So we risk a lot. In the wake of this, NATO is likely to have to reconsider its policy on out-of-area operations, and this is likely to raise the threshold for similar operations in the future, and to a large extent contribute to shaping the NATO of the future. Much is at stake for NATO and for us. Put in such a light, the government's situational no does not work well enough thoughtfully, after the Left's view. In my opinion, much indicates – because one has had to interpret a lot of what is in the overall assessment, since we have not received it in clear text – that the Workers' Party and the Centre have had a positive impact on the emphasis on ‘situation-determined’, so they have not been fully committed to the SV's line. I therefore hope that the Government will be able to reconsider the situation quickly. I have also noticed that in the days that have gone by after the last Wednesday, it has been a central point for central SVs in this area to underline how very situational this was, and how fast they are ready to assess it differently. Time goes by, President, I just want to end by saying that one should understand the strong reactions, which from the position has been called overplay, one must understand two relationships. One is the uncertainty as to whether SV has started to have strong influence, and whether the election promise given by the Prime Minister has been broken. The second is the importance of maintaining agreement on Norwegian security and foreign policy, the crucial consultations with Stortinget and the anchoring of the opposition, and the uncertainty about SV has been able to enter a wedge there. It's in that context that you have to understand the strong reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1063	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1066	Norway shall continue to support stabilisation and reconstruction in Afghanistan. It's clearly fixed. In the debate on the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence on Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan on 15 November 2005, the Left stressed that they agreed ‘that military efforts themselves will never be sufficient to resolve the kind of conflicts we see in Afghanistan’. The Left also expressed satisfaction at the invitation of the Government to open the way for Norway to make civil and military contributions to international operations. Such support is important. Can we then interpret the Left there, after hearing the article today, that they also largely now support the Government, and that what is left of the criticism and the uprising that came last week is largely limited to the fact that the matter did not come to the Storting in the way you see it as right? Is this correct? Or what is the Left's approach to the Afghanistan challenge? I'm asking because I'm a little insecure after the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1075	Let me first say that I think it would be wrong of the position to minimize the way you met the Stortinget. That, I think, has been admitted by today's debate in the regrets of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is not just about how to talk to the opposition, but it is about the willingness to maintain the broad cross-policy base for Norwegian security and foreign policy that has been there. I'm placing a decisive emphasis on it. Only there is a basis for strong reactions. Then to the reality around Afghanistan. I'm going to be so honest to say that if the Government had come up with its position, even though I, in my opinion, should have done it differently, I would probably have contributed to supporting it in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. I would say that I believe it would be right to answer yes, but would support that line because I think it is important to ask the Government in difficult questions. I would probably do that in this context, as many people do -- you take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1082	I have two moments for Lars Sponheim. One is that I felt that his post was very much lacking in constructive, clarifying expression of what is Left's solution to how we can succeed in Afghanistan. The second thing I want to spend time on is to say that I am reacting to the representation that is almost such that there is a broad consensus in the Great Britain about foreign policy, where SV sits on the sideline. That's not right. Firstly, there has been disagreement about many things going through on foreign policy issues. We in our government have focused on that we should contribute less to coalitions of willing. We have said no to it and withdrew from “Enduring Freedom” instead of focusing on ISAF. We have said that we should give greater priority to the UN than the previous government did, which used little force on it. In addition, the Progress Party, on a case-by-case basis concerning Israel and the invasion of Iraq, has placed itself on the side of what is the large, wide majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1091	Let me first say that this is my 14th big session, and I have experienced very strongly in all these years that there has been a broad consensus on security and foreign policy in this room, with the exception of SV. It's been going on all these years. It must explain the background and the concern that SV has now managed to shoot a wedge into this important cross-political consensus. This, I thought, was important to emphasize in the article, because I do not think the background to the turmoil that has arisen has come to a satisfactory conclusion. So to the Left's view, our opinion is that the Government must put a great deal of effort into the civil, the soft, the humanitarian part. We'll give all the support for it, but the point is that that effort needs to be given a room. A type of security and security must be created in South Afghanistan through the necessary use of military means to accommodate humanitarian efforts. And the SV's words in this debate that we have to rebalance, that we have to say move from rifles to food packages, are going to be wrong, because enough guns and weapons are needed to ensure that there is room for humanitarian and civil efforts. Here it's about raising the balance to a higher level, and not rebalancing the level that's there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1098	There came a very interesting information after the line from Arnesen, that the left under other conditions could actually think of supporting the government's arrangement. In that case, it must be interpreted so that the Left believes that the decision of the Government has taken does not give cause for concern, for example. in relation to NATO. Then my question to Sponheim is: does he mean that other representatives from the opposition party have overreacted when it comes to that decision, because the Left could actually have our agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1104	I stressed that we have the tradition that matters come in the right way in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. The government does not make a decision, but they come up with a position, a position, it anchors, and the opposition is willing to extend its positions to provide a broadest possible basis for the Government's subsequent decision. That's the tradition of that. I say I don't rule out that both we and maybe others would have reacted in such a way if the government had had had the necessary and traditional association with the Storting as it is common to have. Not for that, I think the government should have agreed to send forces to South Afghanistan in this context. But it may well be that I would evaluate it so that having broad political agreement on this could be an equally important position if we had been sure that someone could come back to the position in another way. I do not believe that the opposition has overreacted, given that this is about the Government's way of dealing with the Storting, and the uncertainty about SV's role in security policy. It requires strong reactions from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1109	Last Saturday I had the pleasure of participating in the Globalisation Conference, together with the former leader of Gunnar Garbo. He is now one of the prominent people in the organisation No to new NATO, i.e. No to NATO's out of area. His main point was that we should pull ourselves out with everyone right away, based on the argument that we shouldn't go on with a war that doesn't work. I had to say, of course, that SV's position is very close. We think we should be in Afghanistan, we should be there for a long time. Pulling out now could bring with it a humanitarian disaster. They advise me that I have received from aid organisations and others who are there, that it is not possible to have an Afghanistan without one having military forces in place to support a civilian attempt. But what is it like, does the Left share its current leader SV's view or the previous leader's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1116	The leader of the Left brings up the Left's view on this issue, which is about the need for the world community to take responsibility in Afghanistan. We have entered there, we have removed the rulers who were there, we have hope, and the Afghan people now need to create a better life and security for their lives. Then it's impossible for NATO, the world community and the UN not to succeed in Afghanistan. Something else would be a disaster. If you want that goal, we have to use the means that are needed. That's what the Left stands for. The funds make the increased military effort requested by NATO necessary and the increased humanitarian and civil efforts proposed by the Government and supported by us. It is not about rebalancing, but it is about increasing the effort that will ensure that we reach the objective of security and security in Afghanistan. It's Left's vision. It's not crucial to me what the Left People else might think, as long as I have this view deeply anchored in today's Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1123	Like his colleague Dagfinn Højbrätten from the Christian People's Party, the representative Sponheim was much more propitiatory in his post than what we have heard from the Right and Christian People's Party. Although I understand that the representative was very dissatisfied with the handling of the relationship between Stortinget and the Government, he went far in saying that he could have intended to support the decision that had been made, if this had been handled properly. This is also in line with the position of the Left on 15 November last year, when the Left supported the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in that we went out of Operation Enduring Freedom, but reinforced our efforts in ISAF – as opposed to Erna Solberg, who thought it was a serious signal to NATO and our allies, and that it would almost destroy the relationship between Norway and the United States and Norway and NATO. Does that mean that the representative also agrees that ongoing assessments of which operations we are going to participate in are hardly relevant to our relationship with NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1134	If my post has been a propitiatory one, I'm happy for it. There is nothing I want more than that the intermesso we have had over a few days in Norwegian security and foreign policy becomes an intermesso, and that we come back on the main track where there is a broad consensus on our security and foreign policy. I would normally – as I have said sometimes now – in a meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee I would have gone a long way towards contributing to such a broad consensus. I could imagine that I could use words like that in isolation, the Left would think that it would be right to answer yes to this enquiry, but I would accept – situation-determined – the Government's decision, to keep a political Norway as united as possible behind such. It's also from many teams of tradition to say in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. I don't think this has led to any lasting damage in the relationship with NATO, if you're sure you're coming back on this track, and that there's no uncertainty that SV has got some kind of veto in the security policy in Norway – because it doesn't tolerate our relationship with NATO in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1141	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1144	The word ‘honour’ has been used extensively in this debate. I have contributed in the middle of my post, and it has come from several other teams. I am amazed that the question of overall assessment is constantly coming up. It is an honest matter to disagree with the decision of the Government, but I think it is quite thoroughly argued. Let me repeat – other representatives have tried to do so: when we consider this issue, we assess it against other commitments in Afghanistan, especially in the north, where we are internationalised with other operations, other countries' contributions, the situation in the south, which is today somewhat different from it a few months ago, and this element that the special forces are now our only flexibility in what we can broadcast in international operations. I respect that people don't share that view, but I don't see that we haven't given a good explanation about it. But let me say: when it is made so that the Government's decision here threatens our loyalty to NATO – especially from the Right and the Advance Party it comes again and again – I just want to make it very clear to the Labour Party that if we had thought that this decision was of such a nature, we would never have taken it. We believe that this resolution is good, it is factually justified, and it is in line with the many other NATO countries that have taken similar action. So the role of SV is tinged. I believe that a government's responsibility is to make a decision after internal assessments. There are representatives in this room who have been in multi-party government and know something about it. This government has increased its contribution to Afghanistan since it took over, it has clarified last week’s press release that we are open to participate in the whole of Afghanistan, including with special forces. And we've made it clear that we want to contribute if there is a UN operation in Sudan. The country that is most strongly encouraged by the United Nations to make such a force possible is, for the sake of order, the United States – for those who are concerned about what they may think. So I want to say that if this is so intolerable in relation to NATO, it is a problem that Spain, France, Italy and Germany have made the same decision, and they do not have an SV in government! And yet it's made the decision. What, then, is driving these countries? Well, that's an independent assessment. It was perceived that Lars Sponheim was propitiatory. It's possible. But I noticed that he almost didn't speak a word about Afghanistan. He was busy with the internal game back and forth, and he went so far as to say that if we had been in the enlarged Foreign Committee, he could thus have given support to the Government's position after a certain discussion. He said in the last reply that he does not believe that this is a decision that threatens our relationship with NATO. I think that is a good clarification, and it shows that here the opposition has different views on the reality of the decision that has been taken. Then to the representative Jensen, who is not here in the room now. She was also deeply shocked that we are using the wording ‘pr. "inhabits" in a lot of what we do. I think Norway has very good reason to do that, because we per. The population contributes a great deal in the military, a lot in humanitarian terms and a lot in aid. I also think that is a very good example of what we have in terms of size of the public sector, contributions to health and other things. It illustrates Norway’s total contribution to supporting the development of conflict-affecting countries. But I mean, when we talk about honesty, that we also need to have room, in this room, in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in the social debate, to ask the question: are we on the right path in Afghanistan? Is NATO in the process of success or failure in Afghanistan? Is Afghanistan in the process of success or failure? It is not the case in Norway that it is a blind automation that we answer yes to NATO's requests, to the UN's enquiries, or to the EU's enquiries, which also sometimes come. Last week there was a strong argument, also from the representative Petersen, that this was an Article 5 operation, and it was argued quite strongly. It has gone away from the debate now, but it illustrates a bit of the sketch that is still in the Norwegian debate, namely that we are in Afghanistan in an Article 5 operation closest to defending the United States after 11 September 2001. That's not the case. We are in Afghanistan following a UN resolution, which has a very broad mandate, where the military is one part of the issue. I believe, as the representative Højbräten said, that here it says about a broad picture of politics, economics, civil construction and the military. This almost automatic, which I believe is left in the back of many years in our relationship with NATO, prevents us from having a realistic debate on NATO's challenges, Norway's contribution to solving those challenges, and not least the challenge facing Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1168	When it comes to how this overall assessment started, I don't know if we're getting so much longer. I would rather take up the call that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made: let's talk about Afghanistan, let's talk about the way forward. Totally absent in the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, was the close region. With the exception of schools in Pakistan, Pakistan was not mentioned. With regard to Pakistan, Iran, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, how do we get the destructive forces in these countries to disappear? How do we get these countries to tackle their own militant groups, which are now working actively in Afghanistan, through the UN, the OSCE, NATO and through the whole picture? What policy and strategy do we have for this? This is probably one of the steps that must be taken, in addition to the military and humanitarian efforts, to secure the future for Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1175	I welcome the fact that the Progress Party is now raising a substantive question about Afghanistan. I said in my statement that a significant problem is that the Pakistani border is not close, and that there is free access on the Taliban from there. I said that one of the reasons we have to be in Afghanistan also military is that we have to prevent this region from developing negatively. It's not easy to give a one minute answer to this. It is clear, at least, that if we are to be able to deal with the participation of neighbouring countries, it is not, once again, NATO's military participation, but it is a broad political solution, where one has the UN and regional bodies and the capacity for dialogue to engage these complex structures of power in the region that not only go on national states and state authorities but also tribes and groups that go across borders. It's a complicated game, as I said, that requires a focus of a political nature, and that we need more discussion about. I welcome the fact that the Progress Party is involved and is taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1182	I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is trying to say what the overall assessment is. It's a progress that you can concentrate it down to say what it was. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what is it to do to reconsider the position? Is it the case that the situation has to get worse in South Afghanistan? Is it the case that other countries have to contribute? Is it that we have to reduce our participation elsewhere? Or is it that we need to know that we're not going in with special forces in Sudan? I've never heard that it's ever been planned, it's never been planned that there should be special forces in Sudan, it's not at all part of the kind of mission that's in Darfur, so I think it might have been to draw the meaning of the arguments a little bit far. So then the question is, are these things going to have to change? The second question I have is: what does the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence in NATO say when they are going to sit and discuss the need for strength integration in Afghanistan in order to carry out our foreign operation No. 1 with the highest priority? Are they saying that the others are going to attend, but we're not going to participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1192	If all countries had contributed per. The population as Norway does in Afghanistan would not have been a topic. That's a good answer. Sudan is an irrelevant issue in relation to special forces, but it is part of the image that the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government sees us as to how far we are stretched. I underlined in my post that the special forces are now closest to the only flexibility we have. I think it is difficult today, on 24 October, to give hypothetical assessments of what is the situation next time the issue of increased Norwegian strength contributions comes, if it comes. I am convinced that Norway will be engaged in Afghanistan for many years to come. That means that there is an overall assessment that must be ongoing, and I have underlined the importance that we now have a close dialogue between the Storting and the Government when we make those assessments. I'll give my contribution to that. But I think it's hard to take out the individual factors that say that comes that way, we say yes. That's not the right way to advance such decisions. But that analysis must be thorough, and that it should be divided between the Government and this house, I will stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1201	I heard what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said to the undersigned. I would like to reiterate and say that in relation to the rest of the debate today, it has been a bit of a relapse to call the game to point to the importance of the formal relations between government and corruption in these issues – the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, consultations and an opposition that is willing to extend far to address a government on these issues. So to what was called. I must also be so honest to say that my post was probably even more atoning than how I produced it, how much of what we agree on in this debate had been repeated. But I think there was something missing from this debate: the understanding and importance of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs to establish a majority that may not be there in the first place. But let me ask: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the security situation on the ground in South Afghanistan is so poor now that it has not been possible to get the humanitarian effort going well enough, and that NATO's desire to increase the forces there with a Norwegian contribution is a timely and necessary wish?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1210	I believe that when ISAF has taken over responsibility throughout Afghanistan for a few weeks now, it is important that we are able to have the strengths to solve the problems there. That's why NATO, the Secretary-General and we all have a duty to ensure that those objectives are achieved. It is also right – and I fully agree – that security is important in order to provide assistance. I also believe that we need to have a discussion – as the many professionals who are doing in Afghanistan today are bringing out in the Norwegian media and in the public – about the nature of the way we carry out our military mission to provide security and to counteract major civilian losses, to discourage recruitment to the Taliban and insurgent groups. It's a nice and difficult balance. But I fully agree with what is now NATO's task, namely to stabilise also south and east and to contribute to the development of those areas of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1217	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1220	The debate has evolved to this extent. But when some representatives from the government parties try to ignore the criticism the opposition came with, and do not take what is material, I think it's a mistake. I think the government is fooling in both taking in the way the Storting got this information, and the substance of it. Now, when you think that our relationship with NATO is not at all suffering, it is to the extent of a happy enlightenment, absolutely. We'll take that with us, and we'll keep up with it in the future. But that's not the first decision that we think has been negative in relation to our allies. The fact that we withdrew from «Enduring Freedom», among others. a year ago, was also part of such a decision. So we'll follow. But I want to talk a little bit about Afghanistan, which I also mentioned in my reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is to a large extent commendable that the Government, with its decision, invited to a broader holistic approach around Afghanistan. I think that's what everyone deserves, not least all of the international actors that are now in place in Afghanistan. From my point of view, it is at least difficult to envisage a lasting solution for Afghanistan without first addressing the border problem and, secondly, the whole of regional instability. And it's pretty unstable. We know that Iran is on the Afghanistan border, with the challenges they face. Then it's Pakistan's internal problems -- Pakistan now got a truce with its Taliban followers. With the absence of Pakistani soldiers in the border, it has created new problems and a safe haven for Afghan Taliban supporters, who can now move back and forth across the border. And then we have Central Asia, which is at the top of this, which is a transit point for drugs, weapons and other destructive elements. It's a question of whether we have to rethink about our whole commitment to this region. There I look at both the Minister of Development and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because this brings in more elements, and there are several international organisations that can play a role. So that challenge I think we're going to take with us. I'm referring specifically to Central Asia, because it's a fragile region. It affects this in a specific way, and I will allow myself to mention two countries. I mentioned Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, which are particularly important in relation to Afghanistan, but where the political situation is very, very difficult. It is somewhat more promising in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, and it is a question of whether we should not give these countries a handshake in order to contribute to stabilisation throughout the region, which will have a positive impact on Afghanistan's situation. Now you get the impression that most things are going in the wrong direction in Afghanistan. That's to the extent that part of the picture. But it is therefore also important to say that everything is not hopeless, not least for girls and women in those areas that can be considered safe, and to the extent that it can, it has been raised to a higher and better level, and girls can today move to school and they can go to work. The oppressive regime we had under the Taliban, and the basis for it, is removed in large parts of the country, and it's a happy event. The choice of Parliament and the origin of democracy are therefore joyous. So we're going to bring along the good stuff. At least I do not belong to those who believe that starting this action was wrong. That's right, and then it's important to balance the military with the humanitarian. I take with me the lines and speeches that have been held in criticising the budget management of these issues by the Progress Party. We have to go inside ourselves and see if we are in any context fully in line with the challenges this region is facing. I will take that with me, and we will try to answer that in the course of the year's budgetary procedure. Nevertheless, I would say that there has been a relatively unbalanced presentation of our position on these issues. I think that's the basis for moving forward, but I'll also be allowed to repeat what I think Sponheim expressed in a very good way, that if SV is to have a lasting influence on security policy, then we have great challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1233	I have the greatest respect for the fact that it is possible to reach different conclusions as to whether it is right to send a Norwegian Special Force to South Afghanistan. What I don't have respect for is the lack of seriousness associated with such a decision that I seem to see at parts of the opposition, and especially the Progress Party. Sending forces into one that the most dangerous areas in the world today, where there have just been hard fights, can be right, and that may be wrong, but in any case it is the largest, most important and most difficult decision a government and a national assembly can take, and it must be dealt with with with with the necessary seriousness. There is no seriousness when the opposition's prime minister candidate and leader makes a statement here and makes the whole question a domestic policy pingpong. There was a word that was almost absent in the post, and that was the word ‘Afghanistan’. At least the opposition leader’s installation did not contain a single element of analysis of what it is right to do in Afghanistan, what is the situation now, and how we do it, could lead to victory in the sense of stabilising an acceptable regime in Afghanistan that could prevent new terrorist attacks against the world. It becomes too easy now to say that you will send a special force to South Afghanistan when it is not yet clear what the Progress Party believes about the special force they would send to Iraq. It is the same special force they wanted to send to Iraq a few to three years ago, which is now to be sent to South Afghanistan. I assume that the Progress Party is very pleased that the current government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and parts of the opposition, prevented a Norwegian Special Force from being deployed into Iraq with all the difficulties we can now see that would result. If that is not the case, it is of interest to know whether the Progress Party still wants to send a Norwegian Special Force to Iraq. So the Progress Party, the leader of the opposition, says that we agree on the economic and social reconstruction of Afghanistan. No, we don't agree on that, because in last year's budget, the Progress Party wanted to cut $9,200 million. kr on the aid budget. It is very nice that Morten Höglund will now revise this – I appreciate it – but at least it is the policy of the Progress Party until now. You'd cut $9,200 million. And now they're going to add up to 155 million. kr. As my employees and I have been able to figure out, it's not a single place with a small font that you cut 9 200 million. kr, but that Afghanistan is excluded, because there we have to bet. After all, we must assume that the same cuts would apply also to Afghanistan. It would be a strategy that limped on one leg — just the military, without the economic and social being involved. It is possible to say that you would be taken from anywhere else. But let us remember that for the Americans, Sudan is as important a matter as Afghanistan. Robert B. Zollick, who was number two in the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs until recently, was on me again and again. He had all the world's time. There were no time limits when I came to the US State Department to talk about Sudan, because it was so important to them – just as important as Afghanistan. The reason is quite obvious: bin Laden spent the 1990s in Sudan, the 2000s in Afghanistan, and if you don't stabilize more places on the globe, but just take one place at a time, you don't get stability. I would like to say that the Afghanistan general is not the military, but it is not the aid, because neither military action alone nor economic and social progress alone can contribute to the stabilisation of Afghanistan in the sense of a decent regime with control over its territory, which cannot be the site of international terrorism, and with a gradual economic and social improvement. The policy is crucial. Military efforts and assistance can support policies. Military efforts may be necessary to ensure that policies can work, and assistance may be important for people to see progress. But unless you achieve a stabilisation of policy, that is. underpin today's Karzai regime – giving it the opportunity to link the regional alliances it might be with warlords or others that can ensure lasting stability – you won't make it all work. Finally, I would like to say that we are going to put a lot more emphasis on aid in Afghanistan, but we are going to contribute to the absolutely necessary debate that is now taking place in NATO on how this can underpin a political solution in Afghanistan. Some countries go completely beyond the Afghan authorities in their assistance. It does not contribute to long-term stabilisation. We have to look at some of the dilemmas that are difficult. It's e.g. not manifestly that the necessary stabilisation of Afghanistan between the current regime and traditional leaders in Afghanistan is readily compatible with the view of this assembly on the liberation of women. So to education policy. I'm not saying that I have any clear answer to that, but it's of the kind of dilemma that we have to take over if we're going to be willing to look forward to a solution in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1253	That Erik Solheim and SV, who were in opposition throughout the last period to everything that happened in this room related to Afghanistan, now raise their voice so completely and attack me, I think I'm surprised. Erik Solheim may not have heard any of what I said in my post. Firstly, I underlined the importance of both humanitarian and civil reconstruction in Afghanistan. At the same time, however, I made it quite clear that the domestic political pingpong, as the Council of State itself referred to as, is not the party that has been in charge. It has been done by the government itself by creating uncertainty as to what is their policy. I think Erik Solheim should respond to the following: Is it true, or is it not true, that SV has pressured in government that Norway should not send special forces to South Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1260	I notice that the leader of the Progress Party does not now take the opportunity to respond to the two clear challenges I presented. The Progress Party says that they agree with the Government that it should contribute to getting two legs in Afghanistan, a military and an economic and social. But they don't contribute any of the money to get the economic and social leg up. You cut the aid budget for the world down to half, without – as far as I could record – saying something about Afghanistan being an exception. It wouldn't give any money to the economic and social reconstruction. Nor does the leader of the Progress Party use the opportunity to clarify the light-wine relationship of the Advance Party with the use of special forces in some of the most dangerous areas of the globe. You went in to send a Norwegian Special Force to Iraq. As far as I know, there were no other parties in this room that did it. It is possible that the right hand was a little fuzzy at that time. But in any case, Christian People's Party and Kjell Magne Bondevik – along with what was then the opposition – helped to prevent something that had been so harmful to Norway from happening. It might be interesting to know if the Progress Party is willing to take self-criticism on something that was so obviously wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1269	It may be known that I am not of those who most often defend the Progress Party, but I have to say that the post held by the Council of State in relation to the Progress Party, I thought it was entirely on the side of what this matter is about. The matter is very clear, it is about the strength contribution to Afghanistan. It was the only government council that didn't respond. Now Siv Jensen raised a question about what SV thinks about the special forces of Afghanistan, which is at the heart of the matter. I don't know if he might be able to clarify a little what he really means about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1276	This issue has been clarified by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a very good speech, further in the Minister of Defence's speeches and by a number of speakers for the SV throughout the debate. We are firmly committed to the government's policy, which is a clear commitment in northern Afghanistan. We contribute more per. Residents than I think any country in NATO does. I understand that this is something the Progress Party and possibly the Right is responding to, but I guess no one thinks we should contribute as much, either economically or militarily, as the United States or other major powers do. So the only real measure is what Norway does per. the population. We have a large and heavy contribution in North Afghanistan. But we, and the Government as a whole, have come to the conclusion that we will not send special forces to South Afghanistan now. It must be allowed to point out that the Progress Party is failing on two crucial points. They have not been willing, when it comes to their budgets, to put up with the money that makes economic and social progress in Afghanistan possible. And they have this light relationship to send special forces, with possible Norwegian deaths as a result, even to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1286	I record that the Council of State will not answer questions – that is obviously unpleasant. Ågot Valle said in this debate that SV has reached through to the Government with good arguments. What did she mean by ‘SV has reached through with good arguments’? There must be just proof that SV has pressed for a different position from what the Government would otherwise take – in line with what a majority in this Chamber really thinks. I think the Council of State should be fair enough to explain that. Then it's not right that the Progress Party has not set up. We broke up when the Afghanistan crisis was a fact a few years ago, and we were the party that proposed to give the most money on the humanitarian side of Afghanistan. We're going to follow it up in our alternative state budget for 2007. So let that doubt be gone. In the case of the deployment of special forces, it must be better for Norway to send special-interest forces experienced in this type of very dangerous operation than to do what appears to be government policy, namely to send out people with four months of experience through the protection obligation in very dangerous operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1297	Now the opposition has used this whole debate to ask questions to the Government. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has replied to this in an exemplary way, as we in SV share 100 pst. The same thing I'm sure the Minister of Defense will do in his next post. Then I allow myself to ask two important questions to the head of what is the main opposition party, and to a person who aims to become prime minister in Norway. One thing is, what comes out of the fact that it's only when this question of military strength comes up that you start talking about economic and social reconstruction? When the question arose in connection with last year's budget, you halved the appropriations for economic and social reconstruction in the world – not only in Afghanistan but also in Sudan, which, as I said, is as important to the Americans as Afghanistan. You would have this down. You didn't say a word then about Afghanistan being so important to you that it was the exception. So I ask, how can you have such an easy relationship with sending special forces that you wanted to send them into such a dangerous situation as it was then in Iraq? You haven't even clarified whether you have withdrawn that position and regretted it, or are still standing by that Iraq is also a current place to send Norwegian special forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1306	With the Council of State, we have had repeated discussions on development policy where the Council of State has gone a long way in admitting that development is much more than a dollar and an ear. I have met with a government council that has been willing to go through various elements of development policy and look at it. Here we have been on a constructive path. Now it's presented as if we're on a completely different track half. In relation to Iraq, we are now to be placed on the Security Policy sideline, on which SV has been on for all years. What we can criticise is how the Americans have operated in large parts of Afghanistan and Iraq. They had needed Norwegian special forces with their competence in Iraq. With regard to the situation that has been in Iraq, I don't see it as wrong that we wanted Norway, with its competence, to help the people of Iraq. That we're going to stand and take self-criticism for it becomes very, very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1313	I welcomed what Morten Höglund said earlier in the debate here today that the Progress Party is now willing to review its history in this area and is willing to enter into a constructive discussion both on how much we are going to spend and how we are going to use it within the aid. But it is an undeniable fact that, in your last year's budget, you would halve the economic effort of the Norwegian side for international aid. I don't know if you think it would cheer in Washington. I can assure you that it would not. If there's anything the Americans, with whom you want to be closely allied, are very concerned, then this is it. Madeleine Albright was in Norway yesterday. She belongs to the Democrats, but they may well have the president after the next elections. Madeleine Albright was filled with gratitude for the difficult efforts that Norway is making. She said Norway is an exemplary nation in terms of what we do internationally on the aid side, because it contributes to peace. That's what the Americans are concerned about. The progress party has as its main concern to be close to the United States in foreign policy. We also want to have a good relationship with the Americans and be close to them. But if that is important, you need to change your view of aid policy, because the Americans understand what the Norwegian government sees, namely that economic and social development is crucial for peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1322	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1325	Norway is and will in the future also be a peace-building nation. This is also the background for the Christian People's Party to support the participation of Norwegian defence in international prevention operations. We want Norway to contribute to international peace, stability and reconstruction of countries that need it. It gives extra substance to this debate that it is the UN Day today. The ISAF team has a UN mandate, and in Norway we have deep roots planted in the UN and tradition of being involved and taking responsibility when requested by the UN. Through participation in international operations, we also show solidarity with our allies and close supporters, and we strengthen Norway's own security position. But first of all, in this context, we are doing what we think is right for the Afghan people. We want to contribute to peace and stability. We have agreed to join ISAF for this reason. The risk of participation in the ISAF forces in Afghanistan is high. It is a great responsibility, and it is a very serious matter. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that Norway should contribute militarily in Afghanistan, as well as that of course we should contribute humanitarianly and civilly, which has been strongly underlined in this debate. First of all, consideration is given to the local population in Afghanistan. There is no doubt that the civil and humanitarian part of what we can contribute is most important, but there is no doubt that a certain level of security is necessary as a precondition for civil reconstruction. And that's where the military forces come in. The situation in Afghanistan is difficult. The population lives under harsh conditions, and the Taliban is once again strengthening its position. Because of the miserable security situation in large parts of the country, refugees and internally displaced Afghans cannot return home. Many international relief organisations cannot work in the country either. If humanitarian organisations do not have access to the civilians of South Afghanistan, this could lead to unnecessary loss of life, damage and destruction. In addition, poverty and suffering lead to increased reluctance from Afghans to international actors and have serious consequences for the stability and reconstruction of the country. If the international community is unable to restore and develop the country’s viability for the population, the unrest will be maintained and the Taliban strengthened. That is why Norway must also contribute militarily. Military presence is necessary to enable humanitarian action. The responsibility is great. This is precisely why it is so important that the decisions relating to it are taken on the broadest possible military professional and humanitarian basis. There is real cause for concern when those who know NATO's needs and who know Norway's capacity, what we have available, say that the Government's decision is not based on available knowledge, but on a compromise to preserve the government coalition. State Secretary Barth Eide tells Evening Post that ‘we have a resource of 150 special forces available’. There is little doubt that NATO needs these forces. Many suggest that irrelevant considerations have been included in the basis of the decision. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has some irritation that we drilled in the so-called overall decision. But is it so strange when the Workers' Party's defence-political spokesmen said, as I mentioned earlier in a reply, that in a tripartite government you win something and lose something. It's not that long since we've been cheering over Mongstad. The Mongstad Jubilee has cost the Workers' Party something, but more importantly, it has cost Afghanistan and our relationship to the NATO Alliance more. If we actually have strengths available that can contribute, it is very worrying that motives and motivations other than purely professional and security policy are crucial for Norwegian authorities. Finally, I would like to highlight some important points. Norway must give clear signals of support to President Hamid Karzai's call for NATO to take precautions during military operations to protect civilians. Furthermore, ISAF must ensure that there are no attacks on civilians, including arbitrary prisons and torture. Peace, democracy and reconstruction of Afghanistan are the objectives. We must not lose sight of it. As NATO's Secretary-General recently said, NATO can only succeed if we can really help the Afghan government improve people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1356	The Norwegian contribution to the NATO-led stabilisation force ISAF is now about 550 soldiers. This is an increase of 150 ISAF soldiers only in the last year. We know that our efforts are concentrated in northern Afghanistan. The Norwegian forces have a demanding task in the north and have until now been in a build-up phase in this area. It is also important to stress that Norway is one of the countries in NATO as per the population contributes most in Afghanistan. Last week, the Government made it clear from an overall assessment that it would not at present extend our participation in ISAF by sending special forces to the southern parts of the country now. The Labour Party agrees. This decision created a violent mob in parts of the opposition, with accusations that the government had thus embarked on a new course and made a clear breach of Norway’s traditional foreign and security policy. During the debate, the use of words from the opposition has subdued significantly. But what was it really our government prepared last Wednesday? The government decided, as stated in the press release: ‘Norway concentrates its military efforts in northern Afghanistan but may in principle participate with forces throughout the responsibilities of ISAF. Nor are there any restrictions on the type of contributions that Norway can make, including special forces. Norwegian contributions will be based on an overall assessment of needs and capacities, and the commitments we have made in relation to other ongoing international operations and a possible future UN operation in Sudan/Darfur.» In addition, the Government made it clear that it would continuously assess the security situation in the country and the need for further strength support if this were to be necessary, but not a further troop contribution at this stage. Can this be called a new course in our security policy? No, of course not. As I know, it's not unusual to refuse requests to increase participation in an international operation. Each country receives such requests on a regular basis and must always be subject to assessments in the country receiving the request. Like other countries, including close allies, Norway has rejected such requests before, including under other governments. One of many cases is for example: Norway’s refusal to extend the deployment of the infantry battalion in Kosovo in the summer of 2004, i.e. under the Bondevik II Government. However, that said, it is important to stress that the situation in Afghanistan is very serious. The Taliban and other rebel groups have been on the offensive in the autumn to undermine the democratically elected government. It must be combated.Reconciliation is too slow. It must be carried out.The Afghan institutions and the government's authority must be strengthened, and respect for law and order must be established. It has to be stepped up. This will and must be done by Norway. The Labour Party believes that in order to achieve lasting progress in Afghanistan, the social structures of the country need to be strengthened and the Afghan government is able to take primary responsibility for the country's woes and well-being. Achieving this objective requires broad international assistance. Afghanistan needs continued military assistance to establish and maintain security. However, military instruments alone cannot solve the major and major challenges facing them today. Therefore, civil assistance for reconstruction and development needs to be strengthened. The steady Afghan must experience hope for the future and that they will get better. Only in that way can we succeed. The Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway shall have a long-term involvement in Afghanistan. The declaration also states that the main lines of Norwegian security policy are fixed, including NATO membership. I therefore believe that it is important for Norway's reputation and, based on our dependence on the NATO alliance, that we, as a group, are striving to avoid too many political games around the issues that we have discussed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1402	On 11 September 2001, a great deal of turnaround took place. Soon we became aware of both our own vulnerability and the worldview or values of others. The time after which the new time frame was amplified. London and Madrid have been subjected to terrorist attacks. However, several others have been averted in time. Al Qaida and bin Laden pose a global threat today. Terror is a threat we have to deal with, it concerns us all. NATO membership requires cooperation, and it provides security. Norwegian NATO policy is based on the belief in solidarity between allies. We've always been counting on the help of NATO if we were to be subjected to war or other pressure. I grew up with that. NATO has actually represented our security. It is the support pillar of Norwegian foreign and security policy. But close cooperation and loyalty in an alliance must of course go both ways. We also have clear commitments. We have a clear self-interest in setting up an alliance that we can also need help from once in the future. Once the situation in South Afghanistan has become a reality and the Taliban poses a major threat, it is a situation that concerns us all. It's serious to send soldiers out on dangerous missions. There's something that anyone would want to avoid human beings. But the fight against the Taliban and Al Qaeda, the fight against terrorism, is most relevant to us, for the sake of the threat picture, but not least because it is NATO that is set to secure the fragile government in Kabul. And when NATO now asks for special assistance and we have the opportunity to meet the need, it becomes something strange when the Government now folds away. Go outside, said the bend. And that's probably exactly what's happening in this case, even if government members say something else. It is through NATO democracy in Afghanistan to be ensured and humanitarian aid to be carried out. The military effort in any case does not solve all of Afghanistan's problems. It is worth noting all the signals that the world community has spent too little money on humanitarian aid and on the reconstruction of the country. The effort must be stepped up. Roads, schools, hospitals and other important infrastructure must be built and rehabilitated in parallel with military operations. The Afghan people must both see and experience that NATO's efforts are beneficial and that their own situation and living conditions are improving. NATO has also called for greater efforts in this important area, and it is positive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has emphasised that Norway will invest in better and more efficient financial assistance. But it must not be at the expense of important military efforts – both in part and in parallel. Not least for humanitarian reasons, Afghanistan must be supported. Human rights have bad conditions in the country. Children — especially girls — are deprived of the opportunity to attend school. The situation has improved since 2001, but much remains. One cannot in any way talk about an educational society. It's actually the man's world. I'm just referring to female oppression and warlords. Other challenges in the country are drug traffic and corruption. Border control is also a solution. In addition, we should note that infant mortality is highest among the countries in Asia for which Norway provides assistance. The health of women, the education of women, the influence of women and the future of women must be paramount when Afghanistan is to be built up. I don't think, unfortunately, that either the Taliban or Al Qaida are going to be gone by themselves. It is therefore no solution to leave the country alone or to be too badly manned in the south. Now, when NATO needs increased efforts, there is a reason for this, and then I think we should set up and discharge our obligations. We should contribute to stabilising the situation in the country in the south and rebuilding it. Poverty, unrest and instability are giving rise to terrorism. An educational society, a country in growth and development, will be a counterweight. Building a society is the most important way to ensure peace. There must be room for prosperity development in those countries that are the poorest today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1423	Many have stressed the importance of consensus on foreign and security policy issues. I fully agree with that. I am also of the opinion that consulting Stortinget is a strength. Especially when we talk about international operations, it is important that we have the widest possible political support in the Grand Duchy. It's not least important to our soldiers. So, of course, we're going to continue consultations. The first thing I know about is about our international contributions in the years to come. It will focus on both Afghanistan and other contributions to international operations. There have been many comments on how the Swedish Government is affected. Then I would say that we are three parties in the Government – SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party. We have a joint government statement, the Soria Moria declaration, which says very clearly: ‘The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firmly established, including strong recognition of the United Nations and international law, membership of NATO; [[...]] We also say in our budget that NATO and the United Nations are the cornerstones of Norwegian security policy. So to the extent that we have strengthened or changed the policy, it is by our very clear expression of the UN and NATO commitment – that the operations we are going to participate in must be clearly anchored in international law. As the previous government justifies the withdrawal from Kosovo in 2004 with escalation in Afghanistan, I would like to stress that in the assessment of the strength contribution that has been in this debate today, we have included a great deal of responsibility in the north. This responsibility – our efforts in the north – has increased considerably after the last government. When we took over in Mazar-e-Sharif and Meymaneh, we took over after the British. We took over after the British so that they could release their capacity to participate in South Afghanistan. In the north, both in Meymaneh and in Mazar-e-Sharif, we are in a build-up phase. Unfortunately, the safety situation in the north shows that there is no positive development. It's a negative development -- it's really a deterioration. What is good about this debate is that there is a great deal of consensus about our contribution in Afghanistan. There's a lot of agreement that we're going to be there. There is great support for our soldiers, for their mission. There's a lot of support for the job they're doing. And I'm glad, for the Norwegian soldiers, who every day are in demanding assignments on the ground in Afghanistan, deserve this support. The presence of our forces prevents conflicts and helps improve the security of the population. Not least, they support the Afghan authorities, the government, the President, the Afghan army and the Afghan police. We will continue to take responsibility and remain in the task we have undertaken. We cover with our presence a large area in northern Afghanistan. We've increased our military presence. When we took over after the previous government, we had seen a total of 520 soldiers out in international operations. From tomorrow, when we get to UNIFIL, we have 790. It shows that there has been a change of pace for increased efforts. The government is very concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. We are concerned that NATO will succeed, and we are concerned that Afghanistan will succeed. The Afghan people have lived for decades in war. The country is demanding to operate in, not least because it has a difficult geography. Poverty makes an impression, also on our soldiers, and they are the foremost speakers for the Afghan people to actually experience a better security and a better everyday life, better infrastructure, better health care, school, etc. There has been a big point made by some that we did not answer yes to this request. To that I would say that we received a request in June as well. We have 550 soldiers who every day contribute to better security for the people of Afghanistan. It's a big contribution to our population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1451	The Defence Committee visited NATO headquarters in Brussels a few weeks ago. There we met Vice-Chairman of NATO forces in Europe, Sir John Reith. He was very clear to the committee that NATO needs approx. 2 500 additional personnel for the operation in Afghanistan. And even though Poland and Romania have promised 1,200 men from January 2007, Reith wanted Norway to send its special forces, which previously participated in Operation Enduring Freedom, to Afghanistan. It was clarified that the next six months were critical of NATO's operation in the effort to build peace and society. The latter is necessary to convince the steady Afghans that support for the government is the best. My question to the Council of State is therefore: how does the Government defend, on the basis of its holistic approach to the situation in Afghanistan, not sending Norway's special forces to the area, now that NATO is asking for this support and the need according to the NATO command is very great?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1458	It's clear that when we get a request from NATO, we do a thorough assessment of the request. It is also true that there are 2 500 soldiers missing in South Afghanistan to meet the need for strength that was set. But I would like to remind you that with the Norwegian contribution we have in Afghanistan, we contribute significantly. We're among those who contribute the most if we see it in relation to the population, and we have to do that in this case. Our contribution to the ISAF operation is significant. We've made a thorough assessment. The request made to Norway also came to all the other NATO countries. This is a responsibility that rests on everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1467	I don't miss the feeling that the Council of States is responding very well to all the other things that are the very central thing: the fact that NATO has been through a very difficult time in South Afghanistan. More forces are needed. Norway had the opportunity to respond positively, and yet we said no. That's the main problem. All other arguments and what happened in ours and the like are really irrelevant to that. We had the opportunity, but we refrained from it. That is why we have also been interested in the question of what this ‘wholeness assessment’ now consists of. After listening to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it probably does not consist of so much of the world. But there's one thing I'd like to drill a little bit closer to, and it's that he said it was also for other exposures, that other exposures were also part of this holistic view. Then my question is, is it that it could have been possible to transfer strengths from other exposures to NATO and Norway's main priority No. 1, Afghanistan? Or wouldn't this be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1474	Our government has made it clear that the ISAF operation in Afghanistan is our first and foremost priority. But we have also made it clear that we will contribute to the UN in its operations. We have done so by implementing UNIFIL II tomorrow. In the case of other engagements, the representative Petersen is aware of our preparation for the contribution in Darfur. You could probably say that you could use all the cancers, everything you have of resources, in Afghanistan. But this is a priority for just being visible and contributing more places than just in Afghanistan. I would like to stress that with regard to all the capacities we can contribute in Afghanistan, we are making it absolutely to the limit. It is a reality that many of our capacities are quite stretched, not least because we have a strong objective that we should be able to contribute in Afghanistan over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1483	The Council of State said in its last reply that the army’s capabilities are ‘drawn’. What does the Council of State mean by the word ‘stretched’? And what will the Council of State do to make Norway's defence force, in this case the Army, large enough, so that when NATO asks for help, Norway has enough strength to contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1488	When we talk about our contribution in Afghanistan, it is not least that we can manage to stay in Afghanistan over time. It's hard if we don't have a certain level of the Army and the number of soldiers. I am pleased that we are now increasing the army's capacity, and we want to increase by 1000 officers and officers at a lower level until the end of 2008. It will make a significant contribution to increasing our presence – our efforts – also in international operations. With regard to the second element, whether we are «stretched», the support elements, which are absolutely necessary no matter what capacity we need – whether it be army, sea or air – are quite well stretched, because we have assumed a great responsibility, and because we have increased our efforts significantly in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1497	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1500	Until last Wednesday, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs came famished into Stortinget's hiking hall, the most exciting question in Norwegian politics was about the Socialist Left after a year in government was going to be in the Guiness Recordbook for political camel closure. After SV was overrun in the question of gas power plants and cleaning in Mongstad, there was a big question of SV being overrun also in the question of whether Norway should make increased strength contributions to NATO operations in Afghanistan. So now we know that it was SV's turn not to lose another thing. Just that there is not always an SV to be run over, someone will probably claim. But what kind of government of the country is it going to be like, that now it was SV's turn to get a winner, because now obviously SV didn't tolerate more political pain in the form of being overrun? In the class struggle, the cat is released from the bag. Under the heading ‘An SV Jubilee Day’ it says: ‘SV celebrates the Government’s refusal to special forces in Afghanistan as a major winner.’ And SV’s defence policy spokesman, Bjørn Jacobsen, says straight away: ‘This is a great relief. Here we are approaching the pain limit of the party." Thus, we have had a very special and serious situation, that SV has been granted a veto in the security policy of the majority government. And now the result is that SV's policy becomes Norway's policy, because the Workers' Party and the Centre are yielding. With its 15 representatives on the Stortinget, SV is the only party that is opposed to Norway contributing to increased forces in Afghanistan. In reality, therefore, there is a massive majority on the Stortinget against the line that the Government has chosen. This majority, however, will not be expressed, because the Workers' Party and the Centre were sweeping out when it was really hot. This provokes me strongly and, in my opinion, represents the worst outcome so far from the policy of the red-green government. That SV would have a decisive influence on the country's foreign and security policy, probably not many would have thought when they voted on the red-greens at the elections a year ago. It is worthwhile and good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been humble and, in today's debate, lamented his actions by not listening to and consulting the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee in advance. But at the same time, I have suspected here the Foreign Minister to have made a cold calculation, based on the principle that it is easier to get forgiveness than permission. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had to know that he would receive clear and unambiguous advice from the opposition to say yes to NATO's request if he had asked for advice from the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, and if one first sought such advice, it would be impossible not to follow it afterwards. Therefore, Jonah Gahr stumbled instead into the Vandrehallen. That should be unnecessary, but because there is reason to believe that many in the political environment have also forgotten what we are doing in Afghanistan, why NATO is at all there, I think it is necessary to remember the background and the close history. On 11 September 2001, in the United States just called ‘Nine-eleven’, there was a dramatic terrorist attack on New York and American society, killing thousands of innocent people. Since then we have seen cruel terrorist attacks also against London and Madrid. Those responsible for these cruel terrorist attacks are Al Qaida terrorists, led by Osama bin Laden, based on bases and training camps in Afghanistan. Thousands of innocent people — children, parents, uncles, aunts, grandparents — have been killed by these perverted and mad terrorists. They only have one agenda, and that is to wipe out our societies and our way of life. Thus, it is not Afghanistan NATO and Norway that are at war, but these extremely dangerous and extreme environments, which have mainly held in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border areas and which, until NATO joined, held almost the whole of Afghanistan in an iron grip through the Taliban's authoritarian, anti-female and dangerous regime. Fortunately, Norway is a member of the world's leading peace organization, NATO, which has ensured peace and freedom in our continent since World War II. The United States is also a member of NATO, and when one of NATO's member countries was attacked, as happened on 11 September 2001, it meant that Article 5 of the NATO Pact, one for everyone, was activated for the first time. NATO and Norway are therefore contributing to the fight against terrorism through military operations in Afghanistan, although the ISAF force is not a so-called Article 5 force. We simply cannot afford to lose the military battle in Afghanistan, either in relation to NATO, the Western world or the Afghan people. Because without a clear victory militarily, all work and resources are spent building a civil society based on democratic principles, completely meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1517	I can't resist repeating to the previous speaker that if CO2 becomes as big a problem in the world as I think it will be, the decision that the government has made with Statoil about the Mongstad plant will stand, and it will be a future decision. Let there be no doubt about it. In the 1980s, the slogan ‘Soviet out of Afghanistan’ was. I guess there's no doubt that everyone in this room was a few of them. Then, of course, we experience resistance to our presence there. What, then, should be the question here today? Yes, it is: how do we legitimise our presence in Afghanistan? How do we build a basis for our being there and contributing? The British army commander, Dannatt, said a few days ago right out about Iraq: we're in a Muslim country, we're not welcome, and maybe we should start thinking about getting home in the best possible way. I don't think that's the right strategy for Norway's policy in Afghanistan. I think we should be there, but we should be so humble that we get along that we should be there in a way that doesn't create resistance. Because that's what the British learned from their two invasion attempts, and that's what the Soviet Union learned. That's the civil road we have to go. There is no other way, but of course it should be supported by military decisions. When we sent the United Nations forces to Lebanon a little while ago, it was probably not because someone believed that the military contributions would solve anything in Lebanon. Because we know that it's not Israel, it's not Hezbollah, nor is it the UN that will have power in Southern Lebanon. It's the Lebanese government. It must be the long-term work in relation to everything we do in Afghanistan as well, that the Afghan government becomes legitimate and thus will be able to do something reasonable for its own people. What I'm most afraid of in Asia nowadays is what's happening in North Korea. The situation there is known, but what we also see, is that one now begins to reconsider its view of weapons and the use of weapons power in Japan. We may be in the beginning of a new upgrading period in Asia. We also know that we are moving on towards Afghanistan, Pakistan is the nuclear power. We know that in Pakistan there is also a broken image of how power is controlled. We know that Musharaf the one hour wears a uniform and the next hour a dress, to balance this country. Here in the hall, we talk a lot about the Taliban. We know that in Afghanistan it is pashtunar, c. 11 million, and in Pakistan it's probably 20 million pashtans. We know that we must start a dialogue with them on their role in future Afghanistan. This will only be solved through political channels. We also have Baluchistan, who can well imagine taking over the government, gaining more power in Pakistan. With Pakistan's nuclear weapons, with the Kashmir conflict and with the old partition of Pakistan in the back, we know that nothing will be worse than if these kind of people were to come to power. That's the big picture. Then we should start a place, and it did not least the Minister of Defence last week when she was in Afghanistan and signed a bilateral agreement between Norway and Afghanistan on the treatment of prisoners. Some people here today have asked why we, for example. from the SV's side, doubt whether it is so wise to send forces. I don't think it's a good idea to send forces until we've arranged the conditions better for it to be the international law of war that will be the basis for what we're doing. About the same day – one may or may not – that our Minister of Defence signed an agreement with the Minister of Defence of Afghanistan, also signed another party to the NATO Pact, the President of the United States, a new law on how to treat prisoners in Guantánamo, which, in my opinion, is not in line with what we consider to be the international right of war. But we have started on this road by building on it. Of course, this bilateral agreement should apply to all NATO Member States. That is the debate we must have in NATO internally. That is the debate we have to raise towards the Riga Summit. Then Norway has something international that can really affect future conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1539	First, I must be allowed to say to Martin Engeset that it may be good to have followed the debate before going up to the pulpit, not least about how the individual parties here would behave if the matter had been up in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It might also be nice to know a little bit about how the same committee works. Otherwise, on the brink of this debate, I will first try to clarify both the concepts and the facts, because someone has used Article 5 here in time and without time. If we go back in time, 12 September 2001 NATO took its famous Article 5 decision that the alliance would support the United States after the terrorist attack the day before. So it was the first and only time this article was used – that is, the solidarity article in NATO. However, the United States was not prepared to accept NATO's outstretched hand. Instead, they started working on a Coalition of the Willing, which led to Operation Enduring Freedom based on Article 51 of the United Nations Charter on the Inherited Right to Self-defence. So the UN established the ISAF force, by decision of the Security Council. It was established by the UN, not NATO – in the extension of the Bonn conference on the future of Afghanistan and on the establishment of democratic institutions in the country – as a stabilisation force. ISAF was initially managed by individual countries, among others. Germany and the United Kingdom. In August 2003, NATO took over the command at the request of the United Nations. ISAF as such is not an Article 5 operation. It is a UN mandated peace force that we believe should prioritise within our limited capacities for international operations – as we do. Of course, the fact that we are not changing the Norwegian strength contribution right now does not mean that there is a basic decision taken, whether what kind of strengths Norway can contribute or where they can be. In more and more international operations, we also see the need for robust strengths as part of the rest of the setup. It also applies to purely UN operations. Ever since the Bonn Conference, the responsibility of the world community for Afghanistan has been underpinned by the need to strengthen social structures and to enable the legally elected government to take primary responsibility for its development. Massive efforts for reconstruction, including infrastructure, industrial development, welfare systems, legislation, police and security, are still needed. The UN, NATO, the EU and other donor bodies need to coordinate assistance to ensure that the improvement that becomes visible receives the stamp of the Kabul Government. And why do I say that? Well, because we have to contribute to the legitimacy of the regime by ensuring people's prosperity development and humanitarian assistance, and it must be that people understand that this is the government behind it. Civil and military efforts must go hand in hand. Norway is taking the lead in achieving such coordination, and I refer to the initiative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in New York on 21 September. Norway has for several years had Afghanistan as a cooperation country for Norwegian aid. A combination of military forces, humanitarian work and long-term development measures makes Afghanistan a key area of foreign policy today, in other words, together with Sudan and Palestine. Much of our efforts are women-oriented and include a follow-up to UN Resolution 1325, as Ågot Valle also said. Finally, I can only go back a little in time. – Once in the 1990s, I sat on a plane and read the gruesome description of the first stone of a woman after the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan. This led to a long-term commitment to human rights and, in particular, to the situation of women in Afghanistan. However, there was a great deal of silence in both national and international media about Afghanistan after the Soviet Union withdrew. The exception was when the Taliban crushed Buddha statues. At least it got the French newspaper Le Monde to ask the following questions on the first page of the paper: Yes, okay, but what about the women in Afghanistan? Now the Taliban is out of power, and it's important to make sure they never get there again. Should Afghan women have any chance of development, that is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1558	Our commitment in Afghanistan is about helping to help another country and people to a better future. It is about strengthening democratic forces against terrorist groups. Listening to SV likening this to the old Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is pretty motivating. That the government no longer stands by its previous promises to our NATO allies was a very regrettable, if not quite surprising decision, but SV had to get something left to avert more demonstrations in the lawn. That the concern for work peace within the Government should determine key elements of our foreign policy is something new, and it scares. We are a small country in a complex world and depend on mutual trust and credibility. With this resolution, we are undermining the interests of our own and of our allies. Norway has not exactly strengthened its credibility and attractiveness as an alliance partner through the decision now taken. When our soldiers were shot and in danger of life in Maymaneh in February, other NATO countries came to rescue. Now it's those who need help in the south. But this government does not hear. It is a great responsibility to send soldiers to other countries. When this is done, they must also feel that commitments are being followed up and that they are being given the necessary support throughout the mission. It will weaken both the morals of the soldiers present and put them under increased pressure if the terrorists in Afghanistan get the impression that NATO does not have enough endurance. That means, as I see it, that with its decision Norway is clearly increasing the pressure and danger of the soldiers who are still in Afghanistan. It concerns the Norwegians and the Allies. In addition, civil society is being dragged down there into further dangers. The experiences of the 1980s hijackings and other terrorist acts are quite clear. Permissiveness generated additional actions. Norway will expect someone to present it to us if necessary. Most of the people I've discussed this with take it for granted. NATO is our closest ally, and we depend on that security to effectively defend our interests. For our allies, it must be strange to see that a country that depends on external support to defend its own interests to the degrees is not willing to stand up for the community. It's another country's ability to develop democracy and a society based on mutual respect and tolerance that we participate in an action for in Afghanistan. It is by helping to create the ground for development that we can create peace. It's high-value targets, and it deserves endurance. The Norwegian soldiers sent down are well prepared and trained. We had the necessary forces clear, but we do not follow up on the necessary decisions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the need for a change of pace, both in terms of creating peace and in terms of building infrastructure. If there is something that this Norwegian resolution contributes to, it will be that things take more time, and that is not what I meant to understand that the Minister of Foreign Affairs added to the need for ‘a change of pace’. State Council Solheim introduced Sudan as a challenge. It is indisputable, but Norway’s capacity is limited, as the Minister of Defence also stressed. It must be better to complete one action first, before spreading attention and efforts even thinner. So it doesn't work very well. We have a tendency in Norway to want to solve all the world's problems based on our good distance vision. As a small country, it may be possible that we can better contribute to creating the prerequisite for lasting peace in which we participate, because we are hardly perceived as a threat in the same way as many major nations, but then it is endurance, trust and credibility as an ally partner in the actions we participate in, that apply. That is not what the Norwegian Government has contributed to with its decision, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1580	A few weeks ago, the red-green cooperative government presented a government budget with a framework of NOK 712 billion, which we are going to distribute on about. Four and a half million Northmen. In Afghanistan, some 28 million inhabitants live, and the Afghan state budget for 2004 was about 28 million. DKK 3.5 billion. So with more than six times the population of Norway, they have a government budget of about 1 pst. by the Norwegian Government budget. So Afghanistan is one of the world's most desperate countries, where war has been going on almost continuously for 30 years. 45 pst. the population is under 15 years of age, infant mortality is above 15 years of age. Over 50 pst. of the population living below the poverty line of the United Nations, and unemployment is about 40 pst. Life expectancy is an average of 43 years. That's how we can keep going. There are simple things that are involved. It is a matter of sleeping safely at night without being afraid that someone will plunder the house and kill the family, getting medical help, so that the kids do not die of easily curable diseases such as: Intestinal infections due to contaminated drinking water, learning to read and write, getting a job from which to live, or a justice system that punishes people who commit criminal acts, not to talk about getting a whole welfare society. All of these goods that we take for granted do not exist in Afghanistan today, and in fact, before such goods are in place, there will be no peace in Afghanistan. This is some reason why the Government will not give priority to sending new special forces to South Afghanistan now. Now it is more important to contribute to civil reconstruction in order to curb the growing dissatisfaction and insecurity in the country in order to stop the recruitment of the Taliban and Al Qaida than it is to face the insecurity with arms in hand in an increasingly aggressive way, a way that resembles regular warfare. Norway is a major contributor to ISAF. We're going to keep going, but it's time to have more than one thought in your head at a time, even now that the resistance to the West's high-tech soldiers is increasing in Afghanistan. Today we have heard a concerned opposition. I think I hear that they are more concerned that no to the NATO Party SV is in government and can even have influence, than they are in the situation in Afghanistan. We hear concerns like jeopardizing our relationship with NATO because of the decision that has been made. There are two issues that have arisen. One is the fight against terrorism. Should we not allow ourselves in Norway to ask the same questions as they do in the rest of the world, as they do now in the United States, in Germany, the Netherlands, France and England – yes everywhere? The opposition in Norway would prefer not to realise that the plightful questions about the fight that has so far been waged against terrorism actually work, because in Norway it has been the SV who have traditionally asked the annoying questions in such contexts. There is and should be a difference between politics and mechanics. Are they concerned about the debate that is coming, or are they concerned about the conclusions, that SV as an anti-NATO party should actually also have influence? Then to the concern of the North. If we get help, they're asked. And then I say, "Help against what?" There are people who are now pulling up old enemy images. Had it even been helpful to solve climate problems or environmental problems in the north. No, that's not what it's about. A little suspicious, we just hear that we need help to secure ourselves in the North. We are putting Norwegian security at risk with the decision that has been taken. Yes, there are some issues in the North that we have to solve together with our big neighbor in the East. Personally, I have more faith in dialogue, trade and enhanced cooperation. I think the idea of a pomor zone in the north, where we're going to get significantly more cooperation and flow between us and Russia, is the way. That's the future. What doesn't solve the problems is to reproduce and exhibit old enemy images.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1606	It is a good thing to get to grips with this debate, which shows that there is a broad consensus that the situation in Afghanistan is difficult. We should not restore a state of peace and democracy in Afghanistan. That's not what the job is, it's a lot harder than that. We are in the process of introducing a form of Western democracy that is very different from the systems that have run Afghanistan for decades, not to mention centuries: clan systems, tribal systems and tribal rule. In this situation, we also have a state of war with Taliban forces, where we see interference from forces in neighbouring states. It's an inexorable situation. We also know that many have tried to control Afghanistan and create a state of control throughout the country, but no one has done so far. After decades of war, it turns out that it's still a very difficult task. Clearly, the introduction of democracy, peace and development in a country such as Afghanistan cannot be done with weapons in the hands of outside forces. This is a process which must take place primarily on the basis of the Afghans themselves and through the elected Afghan government. It must be our aim to support a development that strengthens the Afghan Government and the dawning democracy in Afghanistan, and we do. The current government has increased the workforce that contributes to the military part of this work, and we are increasing financially with humanitarian aid and assistance. Then there is a request from NATO for additional forces, but the Norwegian government answers no after an overall assessment. So the opposition is going to be in shock. It even goes into deep shock because you say no to this request. We're told that we're failing NATO, and if NATO fails and loses its ability to do the job in Afghanistan, we'll be able to lose in Afghanistan, and the terror will take over. We get the almost impression that the Taliban will one day knock on the door of the Norwegian collapse and introduce its government here. It's a cruel development we're facing, we're told – in a slightly caricatured version. There's been a big deal around this question. When we're discussing this today, we're told that at least parts of the opposition would agree to refuse this enquiry from NATO if they had only been taken on board. Then my question is, what's the big point here? Then we get the discussion of military action against economic and humanitarian efforts. All agreed, it is said, while the largest opposition party, having been summed up, must actually admit that in the treatment of the last year's government budget, they would reduce this aid. Then you don't agree on this anyway. I believe that here at last we are left with a political game, where it seems to me that the opposition has one goal: to try to split and discredit the government and almost criminalise a party in the government, SV, and make it a small scandal that those who are the government party actually have influence on politics. That's crazy. We actually have a choice behind us where the government parties went to the elections to rule together. We had no exception for any part of the policy in that way. This is a political game that fortunately, as the opposition does not promote any suggestions, does not have the lives of Norwegian soldiers in the pot.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1621	I think the last speaker should take on board that it is legitimate to criticize a government for making wrong decisions simply because it has wrong decision makers. It is the content of the decision that is the point itself. You have to stand up for what you do in that case. To hide behind that you have had a choice, just don't go. You have to stand up for the content, and that's what we've been trying to figure out today. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in two important statements in his statement. One is that the Taliban must have been on the offensive in the autumn and must be combated. The second is that our efforts for a stable Afghanistan are at the same time an effort for a safer world. We cannot allow Afghanistan to again be a haven for terrorist movements. Yes, that's very correct and very pointed. The problem is that this challenge has come in the last few months. This has led to NATO having to step up its efforts. This led to Norway having a question, and the government chose to say no. That is the reality of the matter. We've tried to figure out why the government has said no. Several representatives from the government parties have said that this is a so-called holistic view, and it is absolutely excellent if we just get to grips with which components this holistic view is made up of. But with all possible goodwill, I probably found only two such components in the Foreign Minister's presentation. One was that you want to be left with some residual capacity for other things. If the special forces are the right thing to do, you can philosophers. The second was his reference to so-called other exposures. So there had to be other exposures that went at the expense of the Afghanistan operation. Now, the Minister of Defense wasn't exactly what it was supposed to be. I think we all agree that a maritime involvement outside Lebanon is not in conflict with the Afghanistan exposure. But what else was going to be in conflict is a little unclear after the Minister of Defence's answer. That means that this isn't the whole world for reasons that are given. And I have to say that is true, that I think this so-called general reasoning turns out to be the seventh and last to be quite thin. Then the question arises as to what other reasons might be available here. I'm not going to spend the time going into it right now. Then the Foreign Minister had a little visit to me when it came to Article 5 exposures, and he's certainly formally seen right. But what was my point was that the entrance to our engagement in Afghanistan was solidarity with our main allies and the fact that the fight against terrorism concerns us all. That we have been in Afghanistan under different mandates and different forms of organisation, that is a completely different side of the matter. That's not the point. That's the problem, and why it's so important to fight back, which is the core itself. So you have to go to SV, which is so interested in just the umbrella for this, to find the same kind of reasoning that the Foreign Minister has. I sincerely hope that there was nothing more in his remark than a wish in and for himself to address me on a formal question. The reality is that that's why we're there, no matter what form of organization, that's what matters. That's why Right has never seen any difference whether we're there in ISAF context or Operation Enduring Freedom. The important thing is that we put the Taliban and terrorism back on track. I sincerely hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes the same thing. Then I would like to say briefly to the Minister for Assistance that one thing is that he had not got what the matter is about, namely the strength contribution. It's clearly on today's map. It is probably valuable that he contributed from his angle, but then I had actually expected that he had contributed. As far as I could register, it was not a single new initiative, not a single new thought, not a single new reasoning. It seems that the only purpose of coming here was just to take the Advance Party. If it's the task of a Council of State, you can philosophize over. I just notice that here it was not much new, to say it carefully, other than a not insignificant self-confidence in the performance of the attack on the Advance Party. Now I dare not be known as one of the very largest defenders of the Advance Party in this room, but I must say that this stands for me as perhaps a little bit on the side. The main point of a State Council's action in the Storting is precisely to defend the government's policy and to present what to come here for approval, or rejection, of, not in and of a turn of one of the parties in the Storing, although it is entertaining enough in and apart.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1638	It seems that the people who were most eager to get this debate have lost some interest in it, but now it is. The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party said in his speech that it triggered a major crisis when the Workers' Party broke with the broad security agreement around the so-called double decision in NATO in 1979. But, she said, since then, the Workers' Party has kept its path clean. When I saw the exhilaration and the dramatic statements of the Right and Advance Party representatives after the Government's decision last week, it also reminded me of the security policy debate we had over 25 years ago. The starting point, as the representative Jensen said, was the double decision in NATO in 1979 to deploy new medium-range missiles in Western Europe, in response to the Soviet Union's new SS20 missiles. First you had to rust up, then it was to be invited to conversations to rust down. This triggered strong engagements, not just in Norway, but in Europe and the United States. Among other things, we received: the freezing movement. At that time, it was also mentioned on the Right that the Workers' Party undermined our credibility as an ally. But the end of that debate became a unanimous attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the so-called Disarmament Communication, in the spring of 1984. This led to a change in the way Norwegian security policy took into account, among other things. by the Palm Commission’s Safety Report. In that setting, the freezing of the nuclear arsenal was an important tool on the road to disarmament. The idea of a corridor in Europe free from nuclear weapons was included, and the work to make the North a nuclear-free zone was a current possibility. The experience of that debate is not, as the representative Jensen seems to believe, that the Workers' Party created a crisis, and since then has remained on the carpet. No, the tuition was the right one. At that time, the Right from the Government Offices tried to add to a debate that would create difficulties for the Workers' Party in the security policy. Instead, the Right who sat back with a black man and would be standing outside a broad security agreement, if not Arne Schauge, as the Right's main actor had moved, was to great surprise to many at the time, with the attitude the government had taken. But as Schauge said at the time, when you get a new insight, you can't pretend everything is like before. It has also been the subject of this debate. The right-hand side does not hesitate to use foreign and security policy in domestic policy markings. This time it's the SV that's the target. There is concern that one of the government parties has an influence on Norwegian security policy. The representative Dagfinn Højbrätten said that the Christian People's Party would not help to polarize the situation. It is a constructive approach if we really want the broad security agreement we have in Norway not only to be maintained but to cover all the parties in the Stortinget. Then those who express such a strong concern that SV should have a hand on the steering wheel of the security policy should perhaps have more attention to what the SV has accepted through the government platform than to what view the party has had on NATO. After the Soria Moria Declaration, security policy polarisation has been considerably reduced. This debate has at least subdued the most dramatic allegations about the consequences of the Government's refusal to NATO's request. The representative Lars Sponheim said that the decision does not threaten our position in NATO, and that he would support the Government's proposal if the enlarged Foreign Committee had been consulted, even if his primary advice would have been that Norway should answer yes. The proposal that was announced in this matter has given way to the sun. There is a clear difference between the tone of the contributions from the Advancement Party and the Right and from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The criticism that remains after this debate is more about the lack of contact with the bodies of the Storting than about the content of the decision. As you can see, this debate has been useful and clarifying. On this basis, it is not helpful that the representative Martin Engeset felt so strongly provoked by the Government’s position that his statements clearly indicated that, if he has listened to the debate, he has not heard after the speeches either by the Government or by several of the opposition’s speakers. A brief comment to the representative Gundersen, who thought it was frightening that in the interests of what he thought was the inner unity of the Government, the governing parties were affected by the government's policy: I think Gundersen might start by reading the Sem-Declaration, and see if the Right's views were not affected by the government's being in government with two other parties. He might also ask Kåre Willoch why his involvement with the Palestinians was somewhat more subdued when he was in government with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1664	This debate has shown one thing: there has been a very pleasant complaint on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the process. But what has unfortunately also appeared here is the serious change that has taken place in Norwegian foreign and security policy, in the light of SV's entry into government: one unfortunately goes beyond such an important consensus in Norwegian foreign and security policy as one has had, by going to the step of swallowing one camel, it is mostly made if one imposes on the same party to swallow a new one in such a short time. It is of little benefit that Norwegian NATO membership is not accepted by all parties on the Stortinget. But that's something you have to pass. But in a government like this, there should be no doubt that Norway is and will become a good ally. If you have strengths, you should – if there are no other, weighty arguments. Such arguments have not been presented at all in this debate. You have money to build up South Afghanistan. That's good. There are strengths to contribute to South Afghanistan. Nevertheless, the Government does not choose to follow this up. The conclusion that comes out of this is essentially positive. The government is sorry about the process. It's important. But what should also be regretted is that you do not put up with the strengths you already have, and follow up with the necessary funds to Norwegian involvement in South Afghanistan as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1673	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 will be treated together. [[Food, see page 329]] - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1702	Initially, I would like to point out the joy of the fact that all parties represented on Stortinget seem to agree on the great importance of Nordic cooperation. I am pursuing a genuine desire to continue cooperation and adapt it to the new challenges facing us. The post-war period has shown us that common languages, common values and equal social models provide a good basis for cooperation. Over the years, the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have produced significant, albeit not always spectacular, results through their calm and solid work. This should not necessarily be seen as a problem. Many of the results we have taken for granted, such as: the possibility of travelling freely – without passports – between the Nordic countries, a free labour market and the right to health protection and social protection for Nordic citizens living in another Nordic country. Furthermore, the Nordic Council of Ministers may refer to fruitful cooperation in areas such as the environment, equality and integration, as well as culture, education and, in particular, the development of democracy in the Nordic countries and in the Baltic countries. I want to stress that cooperation is largely based on serving and involving a wide range of individuals, large and small enterprises and organisations. Specific problems related to everyday life have often been the focus of attention. In other words, Nordic cooperation has not been a project reserved for politicians or a small elite. Just this has given Nordic cooperation an outstanding anchoring in the population, which I think is constantly connecting this with something solid and safe. In addition, Nordic cooperation has a very good reputation far beyond the Nordic borders. Many look to the Nordic region to learn and to be inspired by our model of cooperation – and, not least, by the Nordic welfare model. All of this constitutes a significant political capital. It represents values that we should take with us in order to streamline Nordic cooperation and adapt it to new challenges. I would like to stress here that this work should not be seen as a shipper's roof to be taken now, to resume a retreat, but be seen as part of a continuous process. We live in a changeable world, where development is taking rapid steps, which requires a sustained focus on adaptation. Some key keywords are ‘promoting sustainable development’, ‘new social welfare requirements’ and ‘stability in our neighbourhoods’. Furthermore, globalisation and internationalisation make it necessary for us to think through our Nordic identity and our cultural cohesion. A central challenge for us will be to take more of the capital accumulated in Nordic cooperation in use, so that it does not weary. In such a perspective, I would like to point out the new and regionalised Europe that is growing. In such a Europe, it is becoming increasingly important for northern European countries to identify themselves as a region of their own. Association with such a region becomes particularly important for Norway, which has chosen not to become a member of the EU. Through Nordic cooperation, we will be able to draw more effectively the EU's attention to the North, including ensuring comprehensive management and large marine resources in the North and addressing global environmental problems that particularly affect the North. In addition, our geopolitical position is facing great resources in the North Sea, the North-East Atlantic and the Barents Sea, and not least our common border with Russia. Not only this one, but the whole border of the Nordic region against Russia, is far on the way to a welfare gap that we will all be worthy of building down. Nordic cooperation can be revitalised along several axes. As a Presidency country, Norway has been responsible for implementing changes in the structure of the Council of Ministers. A key challenge is to find the right balance between renewal and continuity and between tasks primarily aimed at strengthening cooperation within the Nordic region and cooperation with neighbouring regions of the Nordic region. With regard to changes in the structure of the Council of Ministers, the number of Councils of Ministers has been reduced from 18 to 11 years, giving remaining advice on major issues. This is expected to provide better coordination and flexibility, as is efforts to simplify the budgetary work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The focus has been on promoting transparency and transparency in order to see more closely which policy priorities underpin the budgets. Revitalisation should also take place through thematic and substantive adaptation to new challenges facing the Nordic region. I would like to highlight, in particular, social security, preparedness for civil crisis management and measures against international crime and terrorism. It will also be of interest to identify a possible Nordic dimension in the interface between the fight against terrorism and human rights. Furthermore, I would like to point out the strengthening of forensic research in relation to the new opportunities and challenges opening up in the northern sea areas. More specifically, the Left has proposed that the Nordic Council of Ministers, in cooperation with the Arctic Council, work to establish a legal regime in the Arctic. A last theme I want to present is trafficking – or trafficking. Unfortunately, this has become a problem that has become increasingly topical in Norwegian and other Nordic cities, and that also occurs only a few quarters away from where we are now. The Nordic Council of Ministers has addressed this problem, and I look forward to following this work. The Nordic Presidency has prioritised cooperation in Europe's northern regions, the Nordic welfare model, and knowledge, innovation and value creation. These areas have been commented on in the Committee's comments, so I don't want to get any closer to them here. The same applies to the follow-up to a previous Presidency initiative aimed at improving opportunities for cross-border activities by individuals and businesses in the Nordic region. Instead, I would like to make some final comments on the Nordic Council of Ministers' cooperation with countries in the surrounding regions of the Nordic region. Here, cooperation with the Baltic countries has moved into a new phase. It is now fully equivalent in form and content, with enhanced political dialogue and the disappearance of aided project funding as a feature. The Baltic countries can thus participate in a framework programme similar to that of the Nordic countries, such as Nordplus, which is engaged in networking and short-term study stays. This is a joyous development, witnessing that the Nordic Council of Ministers has been involved in breaking down old dividing lines in Europe. At the same time, it is important to continue cooperation with Russia. Social and health issues, sustainable development, democratic social development and the development of a regulated market economy should be central. In addition, the promotion of a free press, which unfortunately has become an increasingly topical issue in Russia. I also want to highlight the importance of following up the work undertaken by the Nordic Council of Ministers in relation to Belarus, in particular with a view to promoting human rights and democracy. Belarus is a dictatorship in the surrounding regions of the Nordic countries, where elementary civil rights are not respected. We should therefore keep Belarus in focus and do what we can to promote democratic development. Finally, I would like to thank everyone for their constructive input into the work of Nordic cooperation. I look forward to further working with other representatives to promote precisely Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1749	In the previous article, the rapporteur of the case has taken the breadth of Nordic cooperation into account. In my post, I want to focus my attention on some of the cross-border challenges facing us in the north. I am also very pleased that through Nordic cooperation we also focus on Barents' cooperation and Arctic cooperation. The 7th Arctic Parliamentary Conference took place in Kiruna from 2 to 4. August of this year. The main themes of the conference were: the Northern Sea Route, the International Polar Year and the possibility of establishing a legal regime for the Arctic. I would like to make a few comments here on the last theme, the legal framework that is relevant to the Arctic. Today, a number of treaties apply directly and indirectly to the Arctic. In the final document of the Conference in Kiruna, we ask our governments to review existing legislation affecting the Arctic and to look at how to strengthen it. The background to the Decision is climate change and its major impact on the Arctic. If the ice continues to melt like the last few years, we'll see about that. 50 years have very little ice left in the Arctic in the summer. Polar bears and seals will lose their habitat, and the indigenous population in the area will lose its livelihood. Smaller ice will lead to increased human activity in the area. It is important that, in advance of this, we can have a regulatory framework setting the framework for the activity in this vulnerable area. A recommendation from the Lahti meeting of the Nordic Council in September of this year provided for a decision which also concerns this issue to a large extent. There, the Nordic Council of Ministers is asked to strengthen the legal science research on the north and to work together with the Arctic Council to establish an Arctic Treaty. It is therefore a broad international parliamentary commitment to a review of the Arctic legislation and an assessment of how this can be strengthened. This week, Arctic Council meets in Salekhard, Russia. Here Norway will take over the presidency of the Arctic Council after Russia. At the corresponding meeting in 2004, a project support fund for Arctic projects, also known as Arctic Project Support Instrument, was decided upon at Norwegian initiative. This shall facilitate the financing of good Arctic cooperation projects. We Arctic parliamentarians working on these issues have thought that the creation of this fund is important, as it has otherwise proved difficult to finance good projects. So far, it has also been difficult to get funds to set up this fund. The forthcoming Norwegian Presidency of the Arctic Council is a good opportunity for Norway to remind the Member States once again of what has been adopted and, if necessary, to take new initiatives to implement the funding of the Fund. In addition to the work on climate change, in the Presidency period of the Arctic Council, Norway will focus on nutrient cooperation and on increased knowledge of the common challenges facing Arctic countries. It is important that Arctic cooperation, through knowledge and concrete policies, helps to secure the livelihood of the people living in the Arctic and enables local communities to meet the major challenges that we see coming. Good resource management in the north will be crucial for the development of the north in all Arctic countries. Norway has gone ahead with the adoption of a comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea, with a coherent view of different industrial interests and the environment. We must have the ambition that, in the future, comprehensive management plans will extend beyond what is Norwegian borders in the northern regions. In the fisheries we harvest from common resources, and only a sensible common management can secure us against predatory fishing and stock-reduction. The use of energy resources in the north also raises cross-border challenges. At the same time, it must be an objective that the population of the areas concerned will also participate in the value creation that the extraction of energy resources will represent. Petroleum activity in major fishing areas requires knowledge and sound management. Norway must be a driver of good international cooperation for just responsible resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1775	I see in the Committee's opinion that in the case of frontier barriers, they say: ‘The Committee would stress the importance of removing barriers to the Nordic population’.» It's in the chapter that goes on the usual man in the street. It has become so that more and more people have to travel to Sweden or Denmark to act, because we have some strange border barriers to these countries. Will the Workers' Party, which has joined this note, ensure that these barriers too are made easier, so that the ordinary citizen can act where he finds it too good, or so that the products can be sold in Norway as in Denmark and Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1787	I don't know if we have the exact same understanding of what we put in the word frontier obstacles. When the representative Nistad is just using border trade as a sign of border barriers, it may be that it is an expression of the very opposite, that there are few obstacles to the Nordic citizens being able to act on the other side of the border. I guess that's exactly what makes us have a significant degree of border trade. I would also like to say that the work on other border barriers for the Nordics has been ongoing for many years. We're going to keep doing that. It is important in a number of areas, related to working life, social security issues and a number of such issues that are important for people such as: wish to work in other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1794	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1797	The Nordic Council and the importance of the Council of Ministers for relations and cooperation between the Nordic countries are not determined by the cooperation itself, but by what we contribute to the cooperation and how committed cooperation should be. Common languages, values and equal social models provide a good basis for Nordic cooperation if we facilitate cooperation with a good and realistic content. For several years, the Progress Party has focused on improving the efficiency and revitalisation of cooperation and has called for more content and commitment in this cooperation. We are therefore pleased that a unanimous foreign committee is in favour of the process of streamlining the work of the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers in order to adapt it to new challenges. As a result of this process, cooperation ministers in 2005 presented proposals for changes to the structure of the Council of Ministers, precisely to promote a clearer prioritisation and more effective cooperation. As a Presidency member, Norway has been responsible for the implementation of the reforms and as a result has had the opportunity to express its cooperation in the new structure. A challenge for the Norwegian Presidency of Government cooperation is to find the right balance between promoting and improving cooperation between the Nordic countries and cooperation with countries outside the Nordic region, mainly in our neighbourhoods. This part of the activities of the Nordic Council of Ministers has increased in importance. Conversions of cooperation structures include, inter alia: to reduce the number of Councils of Ministers from 18 to 11, which has given remaining advice on major issues. This will help to improve coordination and flexibility. The same applies to the simplification of the budgetary work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. We are also pleased that a unanimous committee particularly points to the need to promote transparency and transparency in the budgetary process and in the budget itself, in order to see more clearly the political priorities underlying the budgets. The focus on smaller administration in the cultural field to ensure that a greater proportion of available budget resources go for cultural purposes rather than for entirely different purposes is a good example of follow-up. A unanimous committee also suggests that Nordic cooperation can be revitalised along several axes – not only structurally but also through thematic and content adaptation to new challenges facing the Nordic region. New societal security challenges, preparedness for civil crisis management and action against international crime and terrorism have emerged in recent years. It is therefore important to identify a possible Nordic dimension in the interface between the fight against terrorism and human rights. The Norwegian Presidency of Government Cooperation has prioritised cooperation in Europe’s northern regions, the Nordic welfare model and knowledge, innovation and value creation. It is also important to continue the initiative of the previous Presidency. A central area has been to improve opportunities for cross-border activities by individuals and businesses in the Nordic region. This is considered an important task, as there may be significant efficiency gains in reducing border barriers in the Nordic region. This is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, and should be seen in the context of efforts to develop the Nordic region as an industrial region. Finally, like the rapporteur, I would like to point out that a unanimous committee underlines the importance of following up the important work of the Nordic Council of Ministers in relation to Belarus, with a view to promoting human rights and democracy in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1818	The rapporteur has presented this unanimous setting for Stortinget in an excellent way. It has obviously been doing a good and thorough job in the last year, because – those who remember last year’s debate may remember that it really sparkled under the roof of this room – it has happened in several areas, if not wonders, so great progress. The government's communication on Nordic cooperation shows that, in almost all sectors, Nordic cooperation is taking place. We also know that voluntary organisations work closely across borders and often go ahead in the development work of which the various parliaments are so concerned. Enterprises in the Nordic countries are now pioneering, together with voluntary organisations, in promoting cross-border cooperation, and the Nordic countries are perceived in many ways as a unit. Then, as there was a slight exchange of lines about here in the past, it's important to reduce the barriers in the Nordic region. This is a work that must be ongoing. When a new law is adopted in a Nordic country, it can form the seed of new barriers between countries. It is therefore important that the Council of Ministers try to avoid such distortions. The same Council of Ministers has for some years had former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter as a special investigator to push the governments of the Nordic countries to break down the obstacles. A central area of the Norwegian Presidency has been the improvement of opportunities for cross-border activities by individuals and businesses in the Nordic region. However, in one of our neighbouring countries, which is not a member of the Nordic Council – Russia – we experience the diametrical opposite, namely that we have a limit that is closed large parts of the day. It is difficult to cross borders because of visa arrangements – expensive schemes – which may be one of the main obstacles to developing mutual relations and building up development and activity in our neighbours in the east. Here the challenge lies, also through a common forum for the Nordic countries, in strengthening cooperation and development and perhaps doing everything possible to reduce the border barrier that we have with our neighbours in the north-east. It is enough early to draw a final conclusion to the Presidency programme which has given priority to the north, the Nordic welfare model, knowledge development and innovation. However, the delegation has had good cooperation with the Minister for Cooperation, and it is a citizen of good cooperation and further work for the common cause. The delegation is also trying to increase interest in the northern regions and the Barents region of the Nordic Council. Finland will follow the Norwegian example from 2005 with the invitation to a Barentsparlamentarian Conference, which will take place next year. This will be a good forum to discuss further cooperation with our Russian colleagues, and not least the implementation of the Programme of the Nordic Council of Ministers for Russia, focusing on the development of cooperation with non-governmental organisations and the establishment of democracy – not least the last. As far as democratic development is concerned, as we now see in Russia, there is no doubt that this could be better – not to say much better. The murder of journalist Anna Politkovskaya just shows this. However, there is good cooperation between Nordic and Russian parliamentarians through the Nordic Council, Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation and Baltic Sea Cooperation. The Baltic countries have now become safe and credible members of NATO and the EU. The Nordic Council strongly contributed to this development. This year it is 15 years since the Nordic Council was the father of Baltic parliamentary cooperation. This cooperation with the Baltic countries is a strong, common ambition to further develop, whether in the fight against crime, increased trade, cooperation, the downscaling of terrorist threats, trafficking or other. As the representative Hill-Marta Solberg was also involved, the Nordic Council actively participates in the Arctic parliamentary cooperation. On the basis of the adoption by the Arctic Parliamentary Conference in Kiruna in August of this year, the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs was asked to actively follow up several of the decisions and thus inform the Norwegian delegation. We have also seen from opinion polls in the Nordic countries that Nordic cooperation is well founded in the Nordic people. It is necessary to have this in mind, at a time when there are actually some people in Norway, both in the political environment and perhaps in the media environment, who have a more sedentary tone — not because it is a main point, but you often like to see Nordic cooperation. I think it is necessary in such a situation to ask us the question: What other arenas are what we have to develop the cooperation? We all know the answer to that question. We do not have so many other door openers to just Nordic cooperation to continue the dialogue that in many ways reaches much longer than the five Nordic countries each stand for. Nordic cooperation is the door opener for our bar collaboration. It is now the door opener of our cooperation with the Baltic nations. It is also the door opener to have a parliamentary dialogue with the EU. It is also through Nordic cooperation that we have an opportunity to meet parliamentary colleagues from the United States and Canada. I think it's important, when we look at all the obstacles and the resistance we often encounter in developing trade and cooperation for the rest, that contacts with authorities must be exercised precisely in those areas where we want to strengthen it the most. What ultimately is most crucial for the nation of Norway when we include concepts such as ‘environmental cooperation’, ‘climate issues’, ‘resource management’, ‘ur people’, etc. is that we need to learn to take care of the forum that we all have and that is best able to open the doors. Finally, active cooperation and Nordic participation are primarily in our interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1841	The concept of the Nordic welfare model has been discussed and noted several times in the setting. That's also something that we're still talking about. But what is the Nordic welfare model? Well, it is a policy developed in the Nordic countries, especially in the post-war period, where Community solutions have been put into practice. When you're looking and you're going to create the ideal society that we're never capable of, but that we're constantly striving towards, there's an increasing number of nations looking at the Nordic welfare model. I think that one of the most important things we can do in Nordic cooperation is to further develop the Nordic welfare model – because it's not constant, there's a lot of changes happening all the time. What was good in 1990 doesn't have to be good in 2006. And if we are to take one of the areas that we now absolutely need to develop further, where there is actually a lot going on, not least in Norway, it is in relation to the concept of work. What is work? How do we work? Should all work seven and a half hours until they're 65 or 67? This is done through the pension reform, through the NAV reform and through other reforms in Norway. We have the same discussion in Sweden. The main thing in the Swedish election campaign was work. I think it's one of those areas where we need a lot of Nordic cooperation to further develop the Nordic welfare model, so that we're constantly looking for the ideal society. It's one of the most exciting things in Nordic cooperation, I think, at least in the five years I've had the pleasure of participating in it. Next year we are so lucky that Norway will have the President of the Nordic Council. The representative, Dagfinn Højbrätten, will be President of the Nordic Council from next year. I hope that this very development of this welfare model will be taken into account. But something else that I'm concerned about is that we probably have to eat something more. Nordic cooperation goes very far. It may be an advantage many times, but based on the modest resources that we have after all – we spend a billion a year on the entire bet – I think we're too well-known. There are so many different projects. If we look at the book that the Budget Group produces every year, there is a sea of different measures that we are doing. I think we could have better fed the measures a lot more and gone into fewer areas, among other things. the representation of Hill-Marta Solberg in the North, which is perhaps one of the most important areas on which we should focus in the future. We're north-facing. We're right above the North Pole, and it's quite natural that we focus on the challenges of being a neighbour of the North Pole, whether it's climate change or other things, that Hill-Marta Solberg so pointed out. The discussion about whether we're going to have a Nordic cooperation, I think, is ridiculous. It is clear that we are going to have Nordic cooperation! After all, we're good neighbors who've been working together for years. That we're going to have Nordic cooperation is a matter of course. The discussion has to be about how we're going to make it work together to get as excited as possible, so that we address challenges that really matter to people in the Nordic region. Then I think, with the modest human and economic resources we have, that we could feed something more, and that there are other bets that have to be set aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1855	Nordic cooperation has a long tradition, but many characterise it as a foreign policy blind lead. I think that is completely wrong. However, cooperation must be felt to be relevant to all participants in it. It is essential that not least the citizens of the Nordic region see concrete results in their everyday lives. In addition, we see new developments on the European scene that open up wider regional cooperation solutions. Nordic cooperation is then ready to play a role in coordinating views and being a driving force for raising the challenges of this region on the European and global scene. We see it clearly in relation to the EU and the EEA, where the Nordic EU members have their own meetings before meetings in Brussels, where Baltic ministers also meet – naturally. Norway and Iceland sometimes participate, and Norway must continue to participate more frequently in this coordination process. We also see this in relation to the UN, where we support each other's candidacy in different contexts. In my opinion, Nordic cooperation provides opportunities for Norway to seize. If Nordic cooperation is to become relevant in addition to consultations and coordination, it must be made more focused – here I fully agree with Ryan’s representative. We have a particular challenge in solving the challenges of people's everyday lives. The message we are handling today tells of a broad commitment, a lot of conferences and a lot of meeting activity. It is in many ways an annual report for the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, without actually outlining any new positions or initiatives, and perhaps the form of annual messages is driving in relation to such a perspective. The more important it is to put Nordic cooperation into the main priorities of Norwegian foreign policy and to use this instrument to create alliances for important Norwegian interests. An example of this is the initiative taken by the previous government in the context of a common alcohol policy strategy in the Nordic region. That initiative was almost preceded and called naive in the Norwegian debate, but this led to the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers being able to work together on a common strategy. There were two main points of this strategy: one was to put alcohol as a public health issue on the World Health Organisation agenda. The Nordic group in the WHO has succeeded in reaching a unanimous resolution in the World Health Organisation, and now the WHO is working on a new alcohol policy strategy for the first time in 20 years. The second part of the strategy was to influence the EU to put alcohol on the agenda as a public health problem – not just as a business policy issue, which has dominated the EU’s thinking throughout all years. Today, while we are sitting here, the European Commission is presenting a proposal for a strategy in the field of alcohol policy. Of course, it is not free from industrial policy; it should be lacking, but it addresses this important public health perspective for which the Nordics have been a proponent. This is an example that, in my view, shows that using Nordic cooperation as a tool when you have common interests, as in this case. The Nordic countries, with a slightly different alcohol policy tradition, had a common interest in trying to influence the forces that pushed the Nordic countries to pursue an alcohol policy different from what they really wanted. Here I believe that we have been shown in an excellent way that if you know what you want, and it is possible to build an alliance in the Nordic region, you can also influence the outside world. Many people experience problems when doing business across borders or stay over time in another Nordic country. For a long time, the Nordic Council has focused on unnecessary border obstacles. More have been solved, e.g. the rules which, sparingly enough, prevented ambulances from taking medicines across the border. But there are still many problems. They are often linked to different rules on pensions or taxes. There is a bureaucracy behind every provision that seems to be exactly the same in our country, and therefore they cannot be harmonised. It is a political task to look across the boundaries of these kinds of issues and to solve practical everyday problems for Nordic citizens. Another example is part-time cross-border work. For some enterprises in border regions, this may create difficulties in obtaining labour, and it may also affect the living capacity of those regions. Education is probably an example. Young people with Norwegian citizenship, who grew up in Sweden, do not receive study funding if they want to study in Copenhagen. Neither Sweden, Norway or Denmark will provide funding for studies. In these areas – social security and pensions, labour market and education – we have challenges that still require cooperation, but it also requires political will. As a government councillor, I received a visit from my office by the chairmanship's representative, Poul Schlüter, who challenged me quite specifically: what have you done with the things I took up in the letter I sent you? I have faith in a propelling role as the Schlüter had. In the last year, the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers has chosen a slightly different approach. The message does not indicate any success. I hope I'm wrong, but I have the impression that it has actually been the opposite – a failure! Earlier this year, I asked the Prime Minister how they would organise work on border barriers, and got a rather lucid response. The responsibility in this model is quickly powdered in my view. That is why we in the Christian People's Party believe that we must anchor this in a different way and that we should get a Nordic Ombudsman who can be a driver. There should be a central issue for the Nordic Council in the future. It would be exciting if the Nordic Council for the first time in history got an Ombudsman, because the very concept of the Ombudsman is linked on a global basis to the Nordic model and the Nordic tradition. Nordic cooperation must also be used to increase interest in the northern regions of our neighbouring countries. The geopolitical importance of the northern regions is growing. Oil and gas resources provide new opportunities for industrial activities for the north, but also challenge the vulnerable environment. At the same time, it can affect social development and the living conditions of peoples. The region’s interest in the powers is high when energy is on the agenda, and Norway has an interest in achieving a balance in the region between Russia, the EU and the United States. In this perspective, Norway needs Nordic alliance partners who are aware of the challenges in the north and the relationship between these different factors, who understand the geopolitical importance of the area and see the challenges it is travelling for the North and for the North. That is why we will put the north areas on the agenda of the Nordic Council and contribute to the knowledge-building and dialogue on challenges and opportunities among parliamentarians. The aim must be to create a common understanding and to obtain Nordic parliamentary alliances that can affect the EU, Russia and the United States. At the same time, we need a renewed debate on the Nordic Council of Ministers' priorities in the northern dimension, where the northern regions need to be given a clearer and more justified priority. I find reason to draw out Partnership for Health in the Northern Dimension, where we need reinforced political attention. The challenges of communicable diseases, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis are enormous in our neighbourhood, and public health work must therefore be central. Here it is possible to do a lot with small funds, and we need to increase cooperation and benefit between the professional communities. Finally, let me point out that much of the focus of Nordic cooperation is on the further development of the Nordic welfare model and the Nordic region as a winner region. At the same time, I believe that the time has come to strengthen the focus on border barriers, which concern ordinary people. In earlier times, all benefited from Nordic cooperation because of the freedom of passports. Today it is taken for granted and passport freedom has been extended to the whole of Schengen. I think we need to stick to the traditional cooperation on culture, common language understanding, infrastructure, research, etc., but Nordic cooperation must also focus on issues that are of great political importance and of utility to the population. The North has historical and cultural values that we can use in this work. Our Christian and humanistic values, our democratic starting point in the rule of peoples and our common thinking on welfare and justice provide a good starting point for further cooperation, and it commits. As a winner region, we must therefore be committed to showing international solidarity through joint efforts in conflicts, development cooperation, emergency aid, crisis management and peacekeeping. A winning region shall not create losers through competition but shall be open to cooperation and development. It will be in the bargain with the best Nordic values.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1891	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1894	It will be very interesting to get the Høybråt in the Presidential chair – not here, but in the Nordic Council. He held a very good and interesting post, which I appreciated. I fully agree with what he says about border barriers. But I have one question, and it concerns all the small businesses that pop up in the Nordic countries. In the nutrition committee, in which I myself am sitting, we have said that they should have the Nordics as a market. They're going to get the whole Nordic market as their first market, because they have the same culture and traditions, and it's going to be easy to sell these products in the Nordic region. Then you can go out into Europe and sell your products. But it is a well-known fact that all these small businesses have problems when crossing borders with their products, and in the profile of the nutrition committee, and also in the Nordic region, one of the areas of activity is food on a smaller scale. How will the Højbråten get this to? The other Nordic countries are likely to do this for small businesses, but in Norway, very serious problems are known when this is to be sold in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1903	If I stood here and said that this was simple, we would have somehow no need to engage in this field. This is in many ways a sisyphos work, because new rules and new challenges are constantly coming. But I think maybe I'll recommend that we focus on some areas where it should be possible to do something. I mentioned in particular what went on study funding, for example, and I mentioned the conditions where you work in a divided way, on the one hand and on the other side of the border. I also believe that it should be possible to make changes in relation to parts of the legislation on business. But it's clear that if you start producing food, you stick your head in the wall very quickly. The representative knows that, and that's why he's trying to bring it up with me. In fact, I think it's possible to create some solutions in other areas, and that we should focus on the areas where it's possible to have an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1910	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1913	In the general political debate, cooperation at the Nordic Council has probably lost some of its former principal and ideological character in favour of practical cooperation to facilitate the everyday lives of neighbouring people. An exception in this way is the new focus on the northern regions that I find one in Nordic cooperation and in the Nordic Council has taken on a very overall perspective, and where there is established cooperation with other countries in the northern region, where the Nordic Council can play a central role. This has to do with both the interests of nations and, to the most extent, with the daily lives of ordinary people. However, I would like to focus first and foremost on a few areas that are essential to the daily lives of the Nordics. Several speakers have already focused on removing border barriers between Nordic countries. Today, there is a great deal of labour exchange between neighbouring countries. In my home district, Rome, Swedish is soon as much used in the service industries as Norwegian. It's not just about Gardermoen, it's about the whole area. It's just that you like to work there as in Sweden, and it's easier to travel to Rome than maybe to go to the Gothenburg region or to the Stockholm region. It is simply that removing border barriers is important for businesses, but it is also very important to focus on how citizens are cared for in a region where the boundaries do not mean so much in terms of seeking work and living their daily lives. We have tens of thousands of week commuters between the Nordic countries -- we might have hundreds of thousands, for everything I know -- and we have a lot of people crossing the border every day to and from work. The main message shows that cooperation ministers have stated that it is important to keep the pressure to achieve concrete and tangible results in removing border barriers for Nordic citizens and for business. That's very good. It is therefore noted that one agrees to establish its own arrangements in some selected Councils of Ministers. The most relevant areas of this work are, in addition to the business area, the social and health area, the financial and fiscal area and the field of education. The main anchoring and responsibility for progress in the work shall lie with the expert councils responsible for the subject areas. It could be a way of following up, maybe a good way of following up. But – as the representative Højbrätten said – I'm afraid it's not a good enough way to follow up. For the many thousands of individuals who face practical obstacles in their daily lives as a Nordic citizen, more visible and easily accessible assistance is needed. The Nordic tax portal is such an offer. I share the opinion of the representative, Højbräten, that the idea of establishing a Nordic ombudsman regime should in no way be abandoned in order to assist citizens facing border barriers. People simply need a guide through bureaucracy. So we are not in the target when it comes to removing frontier barriers, and I would recommend the cooperation ministers to go into this with a slightly wider perspective than what has been done so far. In parallel with removing Nordic border barriers, we are establishing new ones. When, at the Nordic Council session next week, we are considering a proposal for a member on the Nordic neighbouring country television after the digitisation process, we have to acknowledge with shame that we seem to have missed out on the chances of getting a better system for the transmission of neighbouring country television as a result of the introduction of digital television. The various countries have not coordinated their work on digitisation and end up with different technical standards. We go into a time when our access to new television channels exceeds most of the needs in terms of number, but we are deprived of the opportunity to see neighbouring countries' leading television channels. I have a fellow Member of Parliament from Töksforss who has been able to take Norwegian television every year, and who complains that now it may be over, if he does not set up a satellite antenna. That should be unnecessary. I think it must be allowed to report from here that the Nordic Ministers for Culture should address this matter as soon as possible and say that this is a situation you cannot live with. You have to make it easier to access many more TV channels, but for commercial reasons, you do it in a way that shuts down neighboring country television. We can't have it like that!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1932	On the front of this year's big news, I thought I was showing some of the core of the Nordic work. She shows some kids who are out playing ice hockey, supposedly on a voluntary basis. It doesn't look very organized. Here we've been to the voluntary, but the point of the image is that one has to stand up as a layer, and then one has to compete, because then the result is good. That's just how I thought Nordic work is. We use human and material resources to produce good results, not just for each country, but for the Nordics as a whole and in common. Creating Nordic benefits is at the bottom of all the activity we have in Nordic cooperation. With an ever-changing world, demands are being made for more and more dynamic Nordic cooperation and a willingness to seek new and better solutions to meet our citizens. The government's efforts in Nordic cooperation meet that requirement. In particular, it has been important this year when we have rented work. The three main priorities of the Norwegian Presidency programme have been several. It's Nordic welfare model knowledgedevelopment and innovation Besides, it is also important that we continue what those who have had the presidency before us have done, so it is not as many people have been about, that we jump from tear to tear and are only occupied with our own projects when we have the presidency. For this reason, we have said that it has been important to continue this with the cross-border work. The effectiveness of Nordic cooperation would also continue under our leadership. Let me start by saying something about the reform work. The transition from 18 to 11 Councils of Ministers has been well implemented, but it is quite demanding. We've got some big committees. We have only received from one country three-four state councils that will suddenly cooperate in the same Council of Ministers. It is clear that this is demanding. Then we can't deal with new challenges at the same time, then a late ministers have to find a solution to challenge them. In the cultural field, under the Norwegian Presidency, we have implemented a very large sector reform. The combined effect of the processes that have been started, we believe, in all intents and purposes, will be a strengthened Nordic cooperation. On the Norwegian initiative, we have also started a reform work in relation to the budget. There have been several of the reps in there. In the Committee's configuration, it was also pointed out that it was important that the budgetary process should be open and transparent and that the budget should be able to show the political priorities. I totally agree with that. This has been the subject of many of the meetings we have had with the Committee on Budgets, and I look forward to the debate we are going to have during the next week's session, because I think we can meet some of the challenges that several of the representatives have faced in today's debate: how we can raise some lighthouses, and how we can concentrate on some areas and make them more important than others – perhaps to reduce the number of projects, which I believe it was the representative of the Højbrätt. However, we aim to make the budget clearer in its role as a political governance tool, to make it more readable, transparent, and to develop policy priorities. The ambition is that this will lead to changes already in the budget for 2008, and this is now being done by a committee of the different finance departments. I can also say that we've already started the job, by creating this priority pool that's underpinned by the co-operation ministers, and it shows that someone has started to sharpen the budget. The Council of Ministers' draft budget, which will be discussed next week, has an unchanged framework this year compared to last year. The representative Ivar Kristiansen had good cooperation. I just want to reiterate that we have had a very good cooperation with the Committee on Budgets. I have had very good cooperation with the entire parliamentary group in the Norwegian Grand Duchy. It's important. It is important when you are relatively new, at least new with regard to Nordic cooperation. It is a unique collection of Nordic experience among the Norwegian parliamentarians. For this reason, I am very pleased that we have had the good dialogue we have had, both with the Budget Group and with the parliamentarians who are now going to the Nordic Council next week. Elles has several aspects of neighbouring country policy, and it is clear that it is quite extensive. We spend a lot of time and effort on it. It includes the activities we pursue towards the Baltic countries and Russia, Arctic cooperation, cooperation with the Barents region and the Austerity region, and we are also in an inaugural phase in relation to supporting a more democratic Belarus. It is important to continue cooperation with Russia, on which the case-speaker was concerned. We're not just continuing, we're strengthening it. It is also in the priorities that we have done in the budget. North-West Russia must be a priority. Cooperation with the Baltic countries should now be characterised by a fully co-ordinated partnership. Within the framework of the Russian programme, the co-operation ministers have adopted a knowledge-building and networking programme with a total financial framework of 32 million. DKK. It's a pretty big budget line. The programme covers four headings: public administration, research and education, business and civil society. So the programme can allow up to 500 Russians to have a short break in one of the Nordic countries and thus play a role in the democratization of the region, where we, as many people, experience the paradoxical situation that large economic growth is combined with political restraints. The participation in the northern dimension is continued. The Council of Ministers opened in the autumn office of Kaliningrad. I myself was in Kaliningrad, and I experienced what many people have had in mind, that it was difficult with visas. But I got to Kaliningrad. That office, together with the St. Petersburg office, is now becoming important to strengthen and continue the efforts we are going to make across North-West Russia. In particular, cooperation with the EU and other Nordic regional councils – in particular the Barents Council under Norwegian and so-called Finnish Presidencies – has been strengthened during the work. In the area of social policy, cooperation with the Russian Presidency of the Council of Europe has been developed. Cooperation with NGOs in Russia and Belarus will be stepped up, and the Council of Ministers has also been involved in the democratisation of Belarus through, among others. support for the exile university in Vilnius. In the Council of Ministers, as I said, the focus is on North-West Russia. About 65 pst. of the resources in 2006 goes to North-West Russia, 25 pst. to the Baltic countries, 8 pst. for Arctic Cooperation and 2 pst. to Belarus. I am very pleased that several of the representatives have stated that there is a very strong interest that we should just have this kind of priority, and that Belarus cooperation is also reflected in the draft budget. It is also expected that the part going to North-West Russia will increase even more in 2007, as the focus of the new development programme will be in North-West Russia. In parallel with this, the resources for the Arctic have also been larger. Cooperation in the West has also been lifted by the fact that the path to NORA – the Nordic Atlantic cooperation – has been extended. So the West has now gathered around NORA as the most central traveler in Western Nordic cooperation, and we have taken the consequences of it by adding funds to that work. All of this is in line with the first main priority of the Norwegian Presidency Programme to focus on the north. We have pointed out to our Nordic friends that the relationship with Russia is important for cooperation across Northern Europe, and North-West Russia is an important area for Norway and the Nordic countries. Of course, there are many of the challenges we have seen and are facing when it comes to North-West Russia, which is not solved, and which may not be resolved by the relationship we are going to have between the North and North-West Russia. But it is quite obvious that it plays a role that we attach such great importance to this as we do in addressing democratisation, market economy, environmental security and international cooperation. Here we can work together and stay together, and it's important that we now strengthen that work. Several have been involved in the Nordic welfare model, and it works well. The Nordic countries are competitive, innovative and stable societies with relatively few poor populations. As the case spokesperson was in, there are also several countries that look to the Nordic region and want to learn something from what we have done. At the same time, the model is under pressure both when it is in the hands of economic authorities and when it is in the hands of political considerations. That is why we have said that in the debate on the Nordic welfare model, young people should have a vote, because it is the youth who is going to pass on the Nordic welfare model. Therefore, we create a Nordic Youth Panel, which is an initiative linked to the welfare player in the Presidency programme. The panel is composed of 14 participants aged 16-24 from all Nordic countries and from self-government areas. The idea with the Nordic Youth Panel is that it should stimulate debate and provide advice and input to the Nordic Council of Ministers and the national authorities in the countries on how cooperation and welfare modeling should be organised in the future, from the point of view of young people. I'll get the first advice from the panel a little later on in the fall. Another thing that I feel is that a lot of people are busy when I meet volunteer organizations or individuals, in my own country and outside Norway, is this with universal design. It has also been a priority as part of working with the Nordic welfare model. From the Norwegian side, we have taken a number of initiatives with regard to the Presidency programme, where we have seen some projects on universal design. I'm glad that the Nordic countries are targeting a community and raising awareness of creating an accessible society for everyone, because it's very important that people with disabilities do not encounter barriers that prevent them, for example. in taking up work, in using our welfare services, in travelling freely between countries. Not least when it comes to the development of democracy, it is important that everyone participates and has an active role in society. The Committee asks for feedback in a big message on how advice and recommendations from the recently completed Velvet Research Programme can be used to promote the Nordic welfare model. I can already say that the Presidency has arranged for the follow-up to follow-up to at least two tracks: firstly, we will focus on information measures for the dissemination of results in a short and easy-to-read report and, at the same time, link it to the current debates in the Nordic countries. Then we will also seek to communicate the results to the Baltic countries and North-West Russia. Then there is a plan to set up a seminar series on the Nordic welfare model and future challenges in a global perspective. We believe it would be of great value to launch the results of the welfare research programme to relevant actors such as researchers, officials and politicians in the Baltic countries and in Russia. There is a great deal of interest in the fact that we in the Nordic region have a high level of social security and a relatively high level of taxation, but still scorar as high as we do in international competition measurements. Secondly, the Nordic research on the welfare society will continue in a new research programme to be carried out by the Council of Ministers’ own research institution, NordForsk. It's going to go up to 15 million. kr every year in the period 2006 to 2011 for this purpose. The main objective is to strengthen cross-border Nordic research cooperation. The national research councils shall participate in their priorities and in their money. This is also a good example of the coordination and coordination mechanism envisaged by NordForsk. The third main pillar of the Norwegian Presidency is knowledge, innovation and value creation. On the Norwegian side, we have wished to strengthen Nordic cooperation on quality at all levels of training, both through cooperation on research, on the development of initial training and measures to increase the international competitiveness of higher education in the Nordic region. Furthermore, we have placed great emphasis on developing the Nordic impact of European cooperation. The aim is to promote research of the highest international quality, and in teams the Nordic countries can stand stronger in the competition for European research funding. In cooperation with the European Commission, the Nordic Council of Ministers, with the Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal as a host, organised a major conference, as late as the last week, to invest in research and innovation. Here, models were developed for how regional Nordic cooperation could interact with the EU. We are at the heart of the issues raised by several representatives, just how the Nordic region as a region can also be important in a dialogue and in cooperation with the EU. Otherwise, I would like to mention that under the umbrella of knowledge, innovation and value creation, we have large and important institutions located in Oslo: we have NordForsk, which I have learned, we have Nordic Innovation Centre and Nordic Energy Research. I've visited them all. It's exciting institutions. It's also part of Nordic work that we actually lift up and show out the Nordic institutions that are located in our own country. More have been involved in the work on frontier barriers, which have been in a transitional phase for so far this year. Poul Schlüter finished his work at the turn of the year after his own desire. It was time to think about how to proceed. We have been working to establish a so-called drivers' system in the individual Councils of Ministers, where work on frontier barriers has been seen as the most topical. As many people have said, when it comes to business, one has set up such a system. In the health and social sector, it is now right around the corner to get it in place. In addition, we are working to put it in place in the education sector and in the financial sector. It is not to conceal that this has been heavy, and it has our time required. We've got this in place in at least two areas, and we have to make sure that it's not also a good way to carry on the work. A representative seemed to have reached a saturation point. When the representative did, we had to take a time-out and look at how we would work on it. I would like to encourage everyone who has a strong commitment to discuss the work of the Nordic Council, both in the debates with me here in the Stortinget and in the session, and also the parliamentarians, to use the institutions through which we have, for example. The Grand Duchy's question time to challenge single-country councils on issues such as a problem here, and also challenge the Minister of Culture when it comes to the technical solutions to digital television – not waiting for the session, not waiting for the Nordic debates, but using Stortinget's own institute to get the Nordic debate to become a major part of everyday life on the Stortinget as well. So in the end: the Nordic region is an important driving force in regional cooperation with North-West Russia, in the Austersjö region, in the Barents region, in the Arctic and in the North Atlantic. However, I agree with the Committee's observation that Nordic cooperation can be expected to become more important in a Europe that is increasingly regionalised. Righting such a region is particularly important for Norway because we have chosen to stand outside the EU. So it's especially in Norway's interest that Nordic cooperation becomes so important and so interesting that the other countries also complete the Nordic work and not just work elsewhere where we're not involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1993	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e1996	In 2004, 38 000 people were diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in the Arkhangelsk and Murmansk areas. We know that the problem is great also in St. Petersburg, in the Baltic and in Kaliningrad. At the same time, we see that in the proposal under the 2007 budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers, the social and health dimension is reduced by 15 pst. It might have been very interesting to get a little bit more of why this particular piece, which is so important in our vicinity, is reduced by 15 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e2001	I must commend the representative Fredriksen for the commitment he has had and has in the field, in particular the work around HIV/AIDS and the spread of other serious diseases. That is what the representative Fredriksen has brought up with me both formally and informally in the past. Now, health work is an important element of Nordic cooperation with neighbouring areas. We write in the message that the health situation in North-West Russia is in many ways worse than in the Nordic countries. The incidence of serious infectious diseases is consistently much higher, and particularly alarming is the situation with regard to HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. The Nordic Council of Ministers took part in the working group of the Barents Council and the Regional Council, which will implement this cooperation programme on health and social issues for the period 2004–2007. That working group has approved an HIV/AIDS programme and has ensured effective cooperation between these different actors. The Barents Council's assessment is that there is no need for new structures in addition to those already in place related to HIV/AIDS.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e2010	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the Council of State. So it's not hockey clubs that are photographed on the first page of the big shot. They're bandy sticks. Now it doesn't do anything much better, as Norway, compared to our Nordic friends, is not very good in bandy either, at least not if we're going to compare ourselves with Russia and Russia's programme, on which the Council of States' merit was very much involved, especially the upcoming work to solve the obstacles to the borders that we have. My question to the Council of State is: what kind of approach does the Minister of Cooperation have to the issue that is particularly at our border in Storskog, so that the crossing can be made simpler, less bureaucratic and not so expensive for those who are going to cross borders?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e2018	Now, when I'm born on a roamed holme far west in Sunnfjord, it's not so strange that I don't have the right thing to do on ice activities. It does not help that Norway is not so good in bandy either, as the representative said. But it's not always helping to be good. It's more important to participate. Isn't that a win? Nordic Russia cooperation is going on a concrete array of challenges, which we have simply chosen from the fact that we know that we are going to face resistance from the Russian side in many of the areas we are dealing with. To replicate to the previous replicator, HIV/AIDS is also one of the issues that it says very specifically that we are going to deal with in relation to our Russia programme. When it comes to border issues and moving across borders, there's clearly a problem that we have to work on. I experienced, as I said, even when we were going to Kaliningrad to open offices there, that visa is not something you get very easily. Fortunately, it solved itself. But it's clear that it's one of the issues that we're working on further, and that the Foreign Minister and other government councils also have a constitutional responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e2027	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President then gives the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e2032	Let me first thank you for the flexibility. I'm leaving for the Arctic Council at the breadth of the Kara Sea in the morning. Then we'll have the opportunity to push on some of the questions we've been dealing with here today. I would just like to stress that a single government – several state councils, because we have different responsibilities – has put the northern areas on the agenda of Nordic cooperation. I think we've done that. Our common challenges and opportunities in the Arctic are now an integral part of cooperation between the Nordic countries in a wide range of areas. I would also like to highlight the cooperation we have between governments and parliamentarians in this area. Cooperation with parliamentarians in the Arctic has helped to raise key issues on the political agenda. I have noted the recommendations of the Parliamentary Conference in Kiruna from 2 to 4. August of this year. The contributions of the Arctic parliamentarians coincide with the government's priorities in the Northern Region policy and build well under them. Norway will take over the presidency of the Arctic Council after Russia tomorrow. This presidency is followed by Denmark and Sweden, so that there will be six years of continuous Nordic presidency within the Arctic structure. This is a good starting point. We have tried to cooperate on the main priorities for this six-year period. One of the elements is to have a common Nordic secretariat in Tromsø to support the country holding the Presidency. It is an important step that will provide Arctic advice with a firmer structure, and better opportunities to follow-up matters between ministerial meetings. The government's goal is that we should have a permanent secretariat. I think that is an important measure, in parallel with the fact that it is important for us to renew the structure of Arctic cooperation, which can now become unnecessarily bureaucratic. We have three main priorities for the Presidency of the Arctic Council: overall resource managementclimateschangeseffectivelyorganising the Council These are priorities that you will recognize from the Nordic agenda. The opportunities and challenges in the Arctic share the cross-border nature of them. We will therefore work to ensure that the Arctic countries base the principles of holistic and ecosystem-based governance on their activities in the north. Our task is to contribute to the creation of value and economic growth that does not undermine nature's carrying capacity. The Norwegian Barents Sea Management Plan will be the professional starting point for this work. I believe that this again illustrates that the management plan is good to bring as a tool into a new international arena. Climate change, as I said, is becoming a key issue for the Norwegian Presidency. Arctic Councils have provided comprehensive common knowledge of climate change, in particular through Arctic Climate Impact Assessment, a 2004 study. There are still more gaps in knowledge that need to be filled, and we need to learn how we can best adapt to the effects of climate change. We have launched a project to provide more knowledge of the local effects of the changes, and the international follow-up of ACIA – this study in the Arctic Council – has gone slower than we had hoped. Therefore, we will work to make progress in this work under the Norwegian Presidency. Last but not least, we will work for more long-termity in Arctic cooperation. We're going to help make Arctic Council a more efficient organization, and close Nordic cooperation is a very promising start. But let me mention that with regard to climate change, we are facing a challenge called the United States, which does not want ambitious wording in this area. We are also facing a challenge called Russia, which is following. And now we've got a new challenge called Canada, where a new government is also very careful with the formulations in this area. That doesn't mean we're going to give up, but that means we have a big challenge, and at least we have to use the Nordic card for all that's worth. The government places emphasis on living up to the expectations of the Norwegian Presidency of the Arctic Council, and we want to continue the good and constructive dialogue we have with the Arctic parliamentarians. At the Nordic Council's session next week, the Nordic regions are on the agenda. Among other things, there will be: climate change and the possibility of Arctic research cooperation being discussed. The government will work to ensure that Nordic cooperation continues to be a driving force in addressing challenges and opportunities in the north. Let me end by saying, in the case of the border station in Storskog, on which the Grande Røys Council was in, that is a very strong priority. We have just concluded a visa agreement with Russia which makes it easier to obtain multi-use visas, especially for journalists, business people, people who have many errands back and forth. It'll be easier for those who have family on both sides of the border. It also becomes more reasonable for more groups. It's a point of light when it comes to contact across the border in the north, a point of light in a world that otherwise has a slightly pessimistic view that very much becomes more complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24.ana.ud2181e2068	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. We shall end the debate and continue at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox Then we want the Foreign Minister to take a good turn.
