ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e35	The President will propose that a seat president be elected for the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not in line, and Kenneth Svendsen is in agreement with the President-in-Office of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative Anders Anundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e44	It's a pleasure to be able to make suggestions from the depositors Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt, Bård Hoksrud and myself to remove the requirement of compulsory membership in Student Cooperation for the right to graduate at universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e49	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, wants to make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e52	I would like to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Storing Petter Løvik, Bent Höie, Ivar Kristiansen and myself on the evaluation of national salmon fjords and salmon rivers and the removal of the binding of former temporary protection zones for the breeding of salmon fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e57	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e60	On behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein and myself I want to hand over a Document No. 8-proposal for a revision of the Ethical Guidelines for the State pension fund — abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e65	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 and 2 are processed under one – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e92	This year, Norway has chaired the Nordic government. The Presidency programme focuses in particular... [[EUROPEAN IN THE SALE]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e99	The president has to ask that there be peace in the hall, and that one move out of the hall in peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e102	Thank you, President! The Presidency programme focuses in particular on the renewal of cooperation with the neighbourhoods through the launch of the new cooperation programme with North-West Russia and the new Arctic Action Programme. In 2005, the Ministers for Cooperation presented proposals for changes to the structure of the Council of Ministers in order to promote a clearer prioritisation and more effective cooperation. The amendments entered into force on 1 January of this year. Norway, as a Presidency country, will be responsible for the implementation of the reforms and will therefore have good opportunities to express cooperation in the new structure. Parliamentary cooperation at the Nordic Council faces new challenges. Since the start of the Nordic Council more than 50 years ago, there have been fundamental changes in cooperation. The fall and opening of the wall to discuss foreign and security policy issues has contributed to this. The relationship between countries with the EU, cooperation with the Baltic States and Russia as well as Baltic Sea cooperation and cooperation in the Arctic regions may increase the importance of Nordic parliamentary cooperation. The challenges of social security, preparedness for civil crisis management and action against international crime and terrorism can also be met jointly by the Nordic countries. The challenge today is to find appropriate ways of renewing cooperation in the light of these changes. Common values, equal social models and a high degree of community language provide a good basis for Nordic cooperation, but it requires will and effort. It is important that Nordic cooperation becomes more dynamic and adapts to the challenges and tasks that need to be addressed in and between the Nordic countries, and between the Nordic countries and the neighbourhoods. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee agrees with the need for renewal of cooperation, but there is less consensus on what is needed to bring about renewal. In time, many have been calling for changes and revitalisation of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Council meetings have, in many cases, developed in a negative direction, with little content. Nordic cooperation works well in some areas, but there is reason to ask questions about the extent to which this is related to the Nordic Council. The Progress Party therefore considers that the meetings must be revitalised significantly if one is to continue them. We believe that there is no doubt that the potential for improvement of Nordic cooperation is high, and that more offensive action is needed to achieve more meaningful and committed cooperation. One of those who have been critical of today's Nordic Council is Denmark's Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen. During his last meeting in Reykjavik, he said, among other things: that we do not keep Nordic cooperation alive just by standing for good values like distributing literature and film prizes. He said there must be more dynamism in Nordic cooperation, and pointed to the need for ongoing renewal. He further argued that future generations would not find Nordic cooperation attractive if it was not reformed, and he called for closer cooperation with the Baltic countries and Russia if cooperation was to have a future. The Progress Party shares the views of the Danish Prime Minister. Of course, we are familiar with the steps taken to renew the cooperation and which existed after the Nordic Council session in October, but we do not think this is enough. If this form of cooperation is to be maintained at all, we believe that it needs to be considerably more offensive and that we will particularly point to resource management in the north, security and energy cooperation as important areas. We will therefore call for an overall review of cooperation at all levels in terms of content, form and commitment. Of course, we will also ask the Government, through the presidency of the Nordic government cooperation in 2006, to put on the agenda and to focus fully on ongoing renewal and revitalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e121	I'm going to come back to some comments from the representative, Mr. Waksdal's post at the end, first I just want to say what I was going to say. Nordic cooperation has a lot to do with norwegian policies. The Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers are working to increase the interest in the northern regions, since it is not obvious that all representatives of the Nordic Council are equally concerned with the northern regions; many are very concerned with the Baltic Sea alone. But this gives us results. An Arctic Cooperation Programme has now been established. The North-West Russia Cooperation Programme is under preparation. Through this, funds are allocated to cooperation in the north, and we are given increased political attention to the north. Through Nordic cooperation, we are working to increase the European focus on the northern regions and on the northern dimension of the EU. They will now review their plan – they have had plans, many beautiful words without money. Now we hope that we get both beautiful words and money. Only through cooperation with our Nordic and European neighbours can we solve the challenges we face in the northern regions. There are many possibilities, but the challenges are also great. I will briefly mention three areas, and these are actually the same areas that the representative, Mr Vaksdal, thought we should focus more on: the environment, health and business. In the northern areas of Europe, we find large areas of pristine nature. This northern environment is vulnerable to external impacts such as long-range transport of pollution and climate change. In addition, in some parts of the Russian North, there are major challenges related to cleaning up the industrial and military activities of the Soviet era. Climate change and the environmental challenges related to nuclear safety represent some of the main challenges facing us in the northern areas of Europe. It is a serious tuberculosis epidemic in north-western Russia today. The number of people infected has doubled since the fall of the Soviet Union. The situation is most serious in Arkhangelsk County, where 933 new cases of tuberculosis were recorded in 2004. It has been reported to be approx. 400 people infected with multi-resistance tuberculosis in Arkhangelsk County — this is very close to Norway. Much good international cooperation has taken place to improve health services, including those affected by tuberculosis, but there is still a lot to be done, and there is a need to step up efforts. In the field of health cooperation in the north, telemedicine should be used as one of many tools. Finally, cooperation on industrial development is also of great importance for the northern regions. We are now seeing the beginning of an oil and gas adventure for the northern regions. It's good and very important for the northern regions and for the nations. Subcontracting for the development of activities gives local businesses opportunities for growth and the creation of new jobs. However, in the oil and gas fever we must not lose sight of the other economic cooperation. A stronger cross-border economic development is important in order to achieve growth in the region, and there is still a large untapped potential here. Environment, health and business are also the themes when the Nordic Council and the Stortinget invite to the Barentsparlamentarikers' meeting in Stortinget on 26 January 2006, i.e. in just a few days, where there will be wide Nordic and Russian participation. The meeting is a follow-up to the second Barents Parliamentary Conference held in Bodø in June 2005. It is important to establish a good structure for parliamentary cooperation in the north, to make a clear prioritisation of cooperation areas and to clarify the existing parliamentary cooperation in the Arctic and the Baltic. The Nordic Council should be the driving force in this work. I fully agree with the Foreign Affairs Committee's comment that the Swedish Trade Union Committees should be more closely involved in Nordic cooperation, especially in the follow-up to the Norwegian Presidency programme. First of all, I would like to mention that we, on behalf of the Workers' Party, have placed great emphasis on ensuring that our members of the Nordic Council delegation are in the same Nordic as national committee. It is, in my view, a necessary, if not sufficient, condition for a better national anchoring of Nordic cooperation. Secondly, I would like to point out that the Grandfather sent letters to several of the committees inviting them to go through the parts of the Norwegian Presidency programme that are relevant to the Committee, taking this into account as far as possible in the Committee's ongoing work. But it's the way a committee chooses not to do anything about this, it's the committee's choice. Chooses one to do something, e.g. something as simple as assessing whether the Norwegian Presidency Programme has a Nordic dimension that fits in with the other issues dealt with by the Committee, it would be good if the Committee made the necessary enquiries and contacted the committees of the other national parliaments in order perhaps to achieve a more Nordic dimension in what is being prepared for the Stortinget. I think what has been done so far is a good follow-up to the committee position, and I think we will also be able to provide a basis for a better link between the work of the national expert committees and the Nordic Councils. Finally, I would just like to comment on a few things that the representative, Mr. Vaksdal, raised. He was concerned with renewal, and with a significant revitalization of Nordic cooperation. I very much disagree with the claim that the meeting business has little relevant content. Just what I said instead that Nordic politicians are now going to have a meeting with a large delegation from Russia to put, among other things. environmental and food issues on the agenda are an example of concentrating on this but also meeting with content. The second is that I think you use a very special statement – I have also read it in the vote – from Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, where, in my opinion, he says that the Nordic Council is just sharing prices. It bears witness with respect to reporting very little insight into what Nordic cooperation really is for something, on which basis it is dubbed, and not least what regulates it. But we've done a lot of things; we've changed a lot in recent years when it comes to content and the way we work. I've been so lucky to be here for a few years, so I've seen that development, and the cooperation over the last few years has been largely in the areas where the representative, Mr. Waksdal, is involved – namely increased cooperation with the Baltic States and increased cooperation with Russia. In fact, there has been more or less the majority of Nordic cooperation in recent years. I am therefore now committed to the active participation of the representatives of the Progress Party in the Nordic Council and to the constructive input into further improving and vitalising Nordic cooperation. It is not that the Danish Prime Minister, Fogh Rasmussen, believes that these are only price distributions and meet without content, he has also said many other things in his post. He underlines, among other things: that Nordic cooperation is also something we need, and that it is an important dimension of the other international cooperation that we have and that all the Nordic countries have. I would like to end with the words often used by Göran Persson, the Prime Minister of Sweden: Nordic cooperation may become more important and important in the coming years as more and more countries now become members of the EU, by seeing a regionalisation of policy within the EU, and that the Nordic countries need to find their place in regionalised EU cooperation. Therefore, Nordic cooperation may be even more important in the coming years than it was for a few years ago. I believe that, too, and that is why we are at the root of the development of Nordic cooperation – also between the Nordic countries and our neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e151	Last year I had the privilege of attending a visit by the Presidentship of the Stortinge in Armenia, with the President of the Parliament in Armenia as a host. It surprised me a little bit that one of the topics that the Armenian President put on the agenda for the political discussion was the Nordic Council. That is not exactly what you expect to be at hand in that corner of Europe. But it confirms an experience that I have had the opportunity to do in the past, namely that Nordic cooperation calls for greater interest in other parts of the world than in the Nordic region – paradoxically enough. There might be a lot of explanations: it could be the power of habit, that we have a bad habit of taking as, of course, what has been going on for a few years, and maybe looking at it a little from above and down. The fact is that regional cooperation developed over more than 50 years in the Nordic region is quite unique, not only in Europe, but also in the world as a whole. It therefore calls for interest from many regions where nations have difficult problems living peacefully side by side and even greater problems in addressing the common challenges facing the region. Interestingly, they are trying to ask how the Nordic countries have been able to develop such a model of cooperation between governments based on intergovernmental agreements, complemented by equally broad parliamentary cooperation, and which also correspond to popular cooperation between non-governmental organisations in the Nordic region. It also has a scale that is quite unique compared to such cooperation in the rest of the world. This leads me to another point that I think the case rapporteur would have favoured having observed and perhaps also reflected a little over. It is often said that international cooperation is an elite phenomenon, which literally goes far above the heads of the grassroots. That is something that the political elite is doing, and that grassroots is not only uninterested in, but very often also directly opposed, because you are fundamentally skeptical about it. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, the situation is interestingly accurately mirrored. There is far wider and greater popular uprising, well to notice in all the Nordic countries, than the politicians are able to live up to. That should actually worry us a little bit. Because it is quite obvious that in all Nordic countries, all questionnaires among ordinary people show the same picture. It is practically the only international cooperation to which it is not sceptical, which it is not counter-representative. And that's probably because in our corner of Europe we have some natural advantage and historical advantage that we should be more concerned with taking care of than we normally are. We have a language community that is unique, we have cultural traditions that are unique in the sense that they give us common reference frameworks, while at the same time the differences between countries are so prominent that you can get both parts into one grip, both difference and community. Then it becomes for me to look at an irresponsible, blazing attitude when you write into a committee position in the Norwegian Parliament that maybe we can manage without everything. The closer approach would have been to ask ourselves: can we expect in this kind of cooperation, or in the cooperation structures that have been handed over, to get more out than we are willing to invest ourselves? Here I have to say, since the Progress Party expresses itself as critically as you do, that maybe it would have been close to asking yourself the question: Have we invested anything in this at all? I have not registered that the Progress Party, in the years I have participated in Nordic cooperation, has excelled in something more than physical presence – not always so, by the way. Then maybe you shouldn't expect to get that much out either, when you're not willing to add anything. One of the elements that has contributed to the vitalisation of Nordic cooperation in recent years is that we have had party group cooperation – a social democratic party group, a left-wing socialist party group, a conservative party group and a middle group. It is also quite unique in many ways in this kind of intergovernmental cooperation. And perhaps the explanation of the relatively modest understanding of what is going on is that neither has there been any participation in that part of Nordic cooperation. I believe – just to conclude the small criticism of the fractional comment from the Progress Party – that perhaps the Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen has also been harmed to read in a way that takes out the very opposite message of what he actually said at the Nordic Council meeting in Reykjavik last year. It often gets like this when you cut some sentences out of context and don't see what context they're in. It is probably also right to recall the real challenge we face when we are going to exploit the political trust capital built up between the Nordic countries and in Nordic cooperation over 50 years. There are some obstacles that are not due to the development of Nordic cooperation, but which are due to other conditions that cross the inherited lines of the Nordic countries, by the fact that today we are in a situation where three of the five Nordic countries participate in NATO cooperation, while two of them are outside. Three others participate in EU cooperation and two are outside. And that is why those countries that are not full participants in these other cooperation structures have a particular challenge because they are providing disabled people in many ways. We all know that the cooperation that has had a dynamic development in the last two decades has been EU cooperation. There it must be said – regardless of the disagreement about Norwegian membership in this room – that Norway is a special challenge when we do not participate in those cooperation bodies where some of our Nordic neighbouring countries are laying down more and more of their efforts. The Nordic cooperation structures mean even more to Norway than they do, for example. initially do for Denmark, Sweden and Finland. This makes it particularly striking that a party which does not even have a position as to whether it is desirable for Norway to participate in EU cooperation may cost itself such a demeaning attitude to Nordic cooperation. The truth is that Norway needs all the cooperation forums where we are fully present today, and we need to exploit them for everything they are worth, not least in relation to our own national interests in the northern regions. If we do not even succeed in motivating our closest Nordic neighbouring countries to take an interest in those challenges and, if necessary, in supporting our Norwegian positions and principles in the administration of the northern regions, where can we expect some support? Is it serious to say that today, due to more or less random natural resources, Norway is able to penetrate as a private practice in relation to the global challenges that lie in our own neighbourhoods? I think it is almost shockingly irresponsible that such an attitude towards the cooperation structures built up by quite a few decades of politicians in all the Nordic countries is on their hands. Finally, of course, any cooperation needs to be vitalized at all times. It's just a matter of course. But if you're saying these things of course, you might want to take a step further and make a concrete statement about what you're talking about, what you're asking for, and how you think you can get the political vitalization you're asking for. I think that the Norwegian Presidency period is one of the occasions, which comes with the usual years intervals, which it is unusually important in the current situation that we are able to exploit. It is important that we are able to show that for Norway, Nordic cooperation is very important, and that we are willing to invest political energy in this cooperation, in the hope that it will also draw with the corresponding political energy from the other Nordic countries. I am convinced that there are not many places in today's world that there is as much finished political capital as it is possible to make interest-bearing, as it does in the Nordic structures. But no capital will bear interest on its own! It is those who are to be responsible for cooperation, who decide whether or not something should come out of the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e177	It is not always that I agree with Inge Wohnning – it is perhaps rare that we agree. But with regard to the post he made now, I largely agree with what he said most. His reflections around the basis of Nordic cooperation, with the popular commitment, I think are important reflections to include in the further work that we're going to do. I also agree with the Progress Party, and Inge Wohnning, that all organisations and structures must be open to changes in the course of development around them. We see this in the Nordic Council, that the Nordic Council is committed to adapting and changing its structures and organisations as development progresses. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have been important and necessary for the strong integration that has taken place between the Nordic countries. Border barriers have disappeared in the vast majority of areas, and close cooperation has been built in particular in the cultural field. This has been possible because the links between the Nordic countries are so close, with a common story, which included Inge Wohnning. But perhaps the most important basis for cooperation is the common political fabric that we have in the Nordic region, which has been the basis of the Nordic welfare model. Cooperation has gone through waves, and it has depended both on the commitment of the various parliaments and on the popular commitment. In certain periods, there has been less enthusiasm. We believe that in the globalised world we are now in, close regional cooperation becomes important. We see that there is close cooperation around the world at regional level. Here in the Nordic region we have the Nordic Council, we have the structures that lie there, as the basis for closer cooperation in a globalised world. The enlargement of the EU — even though we have different forms of association with the EU — will also force closer regional cooperation. We think it's important that we use the structures that lie there. Cooperation on Arctic areas, cooperation on extraction and resource disposal in the north, has in many ways become an alpha and omega. It's important. We have common interests, and we're going to use the Nordic Council for that kind of cooperation. But it is also important that we stick to and manage to promote the more traditional areas of cooperation that relate to culture, language and not least to education and research, and that we make it an important topic in Nordic cooperation. Last year, a major report revealed that the understanding of languages among young people has deteriorated between the Nordic countries. This was a survey done among school students. It revealed that Nordic youths no longer understand each other linguistically as well as they did before. This is quite serious, and we are going to take this seriously. It should have implications for our education system. Closer cooperation on language and literature related to our education system is a challenge. Research we promise nationally, and we all want to spend more resources on research in the years to come. We believe that even closer research cooperation is important. One of the major challenges in the years to come will be to gain more knowledge about our own welfare model — the pooling of knowledge, both to develop it and to defend it, is important. This should be given a wider place within Nordic cooperation. And then we're talking not just about research cooperation, about the Nordic welfare model, but about closer research cooperation in general. Building heavy and good research environments is becoming important. In some areas, this needs to go beyond our own national border, and then Nordic cooperation is important – in order to build that kind of research cooperation, in order to build research environments. The challenges are many. But I think it's terribly important that we put pressure, are busy and show commitment in strengthening Nordic cooperation. That is why I am pleased with the initiative that has been taken, in which we are going to try more strongly to anchor Nordic cooperation in the Stortinget and in the Stortinget Committees. Then we must also be willing to use financial resources in this cooperation. It is absolutely necessary that we show the will and commitment to investing resources in Nordic cooperation. We've seen the tendency for the budget to be reduced in recent years. For us, it is therefore important to call for Nordic cooperation, and we must be willing to use financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e196	Nordic cooperation is one of the oldest and most extensive regional cooperation in the world. Cooperation between Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden as well as the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and Åland strengthens the relationship between the Nordic countries and increases respect for national differences and similarities. It in turn offers greater opportunities for the Nordics to assert their common interests in the outside world and promote good neighbourliness. Nordic cooperation is strong in our countries – there have been several speakers. Our long and peaceful cooperation can be an inspiration for other regions of Europe. The Minister of Defence launched Nordic defence cooperation as a model for the Balkans by December, precisely because the countries of the Western Balkans have something to gain from the cooperation we have in the Nordic region. Cooperation between the Nordic countries is currently very good in many areas, and we can therefore safely recommend such a form of cooperation as an export article. Nordic cooperation, however, is not entirely without challenges. This can be improved in several areas. For many, Nordic cooperation is probably so natural that we don't think about it every day. We have a common history, we have a common cultural heritage, and we have a common language understanding. Many take the close cooperation and the open borders as a matter of course. The good community, on the other hand, has a formal anchoring. It's a result of a number of agreements. There is a result of a number of such meetings that, in this debate — from some quarters — there has been a tendency to characterise a slight decrease. So it's not self-evident what we take as a matter of course. The open borders of Nordic citizens over decades have come as a result of the type of activity in which the Nordic Council has developed and continues to operate. We're enjoying the fruits of such an effort, and it's not obvious that we're going to continue such a development, if we don't have an engagement that's actually going to happen. We're winning by acting together. Today, we probably do not make good use of the opportunities for cooperation and fellowship. There is still a lot in cooperation and exchange that is heavy and difficult. It has also become a challenge for Nordic cooperation with Denmark, Sweden and Finland as members of the EU. But in this there is also an opportunity, not least for Norway, which is not a member of the Union. In that context, I think Saturday's statement from the former Prime Minister of Sweden, Ingvar Carlsson, was very positive. He started a debate on the role of Nordic cooperation by stating that Nordic cooperation is at least as important as it was in the past and needs to be increased between the Nordic and European parties. If good cooperation is to be achieved, we need to meet the challenges of effective action. I think Norway has a unique opportunity with the Norwegian Presidency that is now starting. That's some reason why we have this debate. The Norwegian Presidency has chosen to focus on three main priorities: firstly, cooperation in Europe’s northern regions; secondly, the Nordic welfare model; and thirdly, knowledge, innovation and value creation. In addition, active action shall continue to be taken to ensure open borders in the Nordic region and more effective cooperation. The programme is underpinned by the Nordic Sustainable Development Strategy. The Christian People's Party supports these priorities. I'll say a little bit about a couple of the challenges. With regard to the north, the challenges are many and comprehensive. Therefore, it is also important that we have an overall and coherent approach to the key issues in the region. Today, there is a strong effort in relation to our neighbourhoods, but this needs to be strengthened. In particular, it concerns cooperation with North-West Russia, but also in the Baltic region. One of the most important things we need to focus on in this context are the living conditions of poor children and their families, and not least the health challenges. It's with the neighbor, it's on our stairs, this is happening! The description given by the representative Brørby relates to people who do not live very far beyond the Norwegian border, and who have a reality with an increasing number of street children, increasing prostitution, increasing incidence of infectious diseases, HIV and tuberculosis, not least among children. It is a very serious health situation, and in dialogue with Russian partners it is possible to do something. We need a continued strong focus on this. I would also like to point out the importance that it has, yes, how crucial it is, that we get to a greater degree of common management of the natural resources in the northern regions, so that we get sustainable and environmentally friendly development. We need to deal with the climate and environmental changes we see are about to emerge in the very vulnerable Arctic regions. As far as Arctic cooperation is concerned, it is important that we give priority to climate issues, environmental pollution and sustainable development, and that we have a specific focus on the living conditions of indigenous peoples. We have developed, and are continuing to develop, very stringent environmental requirements and follow-up and monitoring of these environmental requirements for oil and gas activities in the north of Norway. It can turn out to be pretty small if we don't get to a similar development in other parts of the north. Ensuring committed cooperation around this, I think it will be a very important environmental challenge for Norway and the Nordic countries in the coming period. Let me say something about the welfare model. The Nordic Working Life Magazine recently ranked Nordic countries as winners in meeting globalisation challenges and changes. Our welfare model is a success, even though many have seen globalisation as a threat to a strong welfare state. The challenges are many, and we have to meet them. The Nordic countries have a high level of well-being, which can be difficult to secure in the future. We want to take care of the Nordic welfare model. We have to renew it and develop it. I am also fully convinced that we have a lot to gain by developing this Nordic welfare model in an interaction with other countries that are concerned with the same values, and also countries that see the Nordic region as an example of ensuring a high level of participation among the population combined with high ambitions in the welfare field. In addition, the Presidency will highlight a number of concrete cooperation challenges in the area of children and youth, and I would like to emphasise in particular the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and the efforts to safeguard the human rights of children and to combat violence and abuse against children and young people. Nordic cooperation must intensify the fight against cross-border crime. This includes, inter alia: the fight against economic crime, corruption and trafficking in human beings. It is important for the Presidency to focus on continuing a well-functioning Nordic drug cooperation. It is also important to have a specific focus on alcohol policy. Many have criticised Norway for being ‘other countries’, with an alcohol policy that goes in the opposite direction and is different from the rest of Europe. There's a description that's about to continue. The Bondevik II government proved that we have the opportunity to hear in the Nordic region, and also in the EU, to pursue an alcohol policy that has a different and common starting point: fewer alcohol-related harms. In the autumn of 2004, the Nordic countries adopted a declaration on alcohol policy, and during the World Health Assembly in Geneva in May 2005, the Nordic initiative for a WHO strategy against harmful use of alcohol received broad and full support. The decision implies that, for the first time since 1983, alcohol has been a major public health issue on the agenda. It is very important to continue the Nordic dialogue on how alcohol works on public health and on how to limit the extent of harm and the social costs to third parties. We've been proved that taking a Nordic initiative is useful. It's useful to influence the world around us and thus the framework conditions and the possibilities to continue the tradition that the Nordics, in general, are all about when it comes to alcohol policy. I want to challenge the Government to continue this commitment in commitments and follow it up both in the Nordic context and in the European context in the future. The labour force is one of the most important resources in the Nordic region. We therefore need to ensure a well-qualified workforce and a well-functioning working life. It is important that access to labour is ensured in the years ahead. At the same time, we know that labour demand is increasing in several sectors. There is further justification for focusing on knowledge and innovation, but also on increasing labour migration. The enlargement of the EU and the EEA Agreement provide opportunities for increased labour supply for Nordic countries. In order to ensure that this possibility is real and flexible, there is a continuing need for harmonisation of the legislation. The opening of borders in the Nordic countries has been a long time, but there are still too many border barriers between Nordic countries. We can, for example: still do not see a selection of our Nordic neighbours' television channels. Those who are nationals of one Nordic country but who work in another have experienced major problems in relation to different tax systems, pensions and different social schemes. When you go into this and look at what barriers still exist in spite of all the work that has been done over the years, you have to say that one actually gets quite surprised at what individuals face from obstacles. This must be taken into account. We also see many problems in relation to this on the labour and education side. The goal of a borderless Nordic requires continuous searchlights on such conditions. Let me conclude by saying that we in the Christian People's Party are to streamline, modernise and renew Nordic cooperation. But we're doing it based on a genuine desire that Nordic cooperation should be even better because it's so important. We're not going into the efficiency, renewal and change process, which has been going on for a long time, assuming that we don't really need this. We go into it with the assumption that we need this, and we enjoy this every day. This should also benefit those who come after us. That is why it is our responsibility to ensure that it is effective, that it is modern, that it is adapted to new challenges, and that there is still an agenda in Nordic cooperation that is relevant to the everyday life of our Nordic citizens. We should not underestimate the importance of the many small steps in such cooperation, but if you start to doubt, at the same time, you weaken the popular, cultural and political network that is so important to many people as it works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e226	The request for the revitalisation and renewal of the work of the Nordic Council is central to the committee setting. The performance of the Progress Party during the last session of the Nordic Council could give the impression that revitalisation for them was synonymous with a desire to reduce the scale and importance of the work, especially for us parliamentarians. Then I see from the settings we have been presented today that it is far from what is in the desire for revitalisation and renewal from the Committee. On the part of the Centre Party, it is important to emphasise that we see the work of the Nordic Council as central to efforts to strengthen links between people in the Nordic countries and between people in the Nordic countries and in neighbouring countries. It's a central part of the perspective that is now in Nordic cooperation, looking towards the Baltic and looking towards the North Callot. Choosing different areas of cooperation in the Nordic region, both in terms of security policy and in relation to the EU, strengthens the need to develop cooperation within the framework of the Nordic Council. It doesn't weaken the need, it strengthens it, and it's underlined by more people here today. I'm glad. Then I expect that we all agree that cooperation through the Nordic Council, and as much of the parliamentary work as the work of the Councils of Ministers, will be aimed at developing Nordic relations that will make it easier for people to travel most in the Nordic region, which will stimulate business to create added value through Nordic solutions, and which will help the voluntary organisations to get inspiration and meeting places across borders. Our work is primarily to strengthen the Nordic civil society. I think it's important to keep it in mind, and I actually feel that Nordic cooperation is doing it, as it is arranged in its practical organization today. Powerful words from Poul Schlütter, the former Danish Prime Minister, at the Nordic Council in Reykjavik were one of the things I especially got from my first meeting as a Nordic parliamentarian. He challenged us – he was very concrete also in his challenge to parliamentarians – to have ambitions on behalf of cooperation and to use our role as drivers in the government's mission to reduce border barriers between the Nordic countries. Although we have a free labour market, free nutrition, there are restrictions in a number of areas that confront citizens in their cross-border practical activities. The Nordic tax portal now in place, which helps people seeking work in one of the other Nordic countries – find out in the system – is an excellent example of the fact that we are in fact able to find Nordic cooperation solutions aimed at civil society, at individuals, and not primarily at the institutions' internal joy and benefit. I see that the Nordic Presidency sees the continuation of efforts to reduce border barriers between the Nordic countries as a major concern this year. That is good, and I promise to be closely followed by us parliamentarians in our role further. In general, I think that the task of my and the other members of the Nordic Council should be primarily to contribute to innovation – more than to contribute to control. We must assume that the Presidency and the Councils of Ministers are very committed to solving the tasks assigned to them, so that it is almost only easy to look at them in the cards to make sure that it is done in full, and that our main commitment is to develop new areas, where it is important to grasp. The innovative part of Nordic cooperation takes place not least through the Committees of the Nordic Council. At least I have registered it in my short time. Already next week we meet here in Oslo. As a member of the Culture Committee, I see a number of areas where we have the opportunity to develop alliances and draw closer to each other – people and institutions in the Nordic region. In a situation where we have to record that our understanding of the languages of neighbouring countries is going down, the Nordic language cooperation that is under way is important, and I see that it is at the heart of the Presidency's ambition for this year. Working to develop a Nordic media program that focuses on the production of video games for children and young people in the Nordic region, I feel like a nice way to show it that you think concretely, that you think of actions, that there are not just words and phrases about how important it is to cooperate. It is good that the measures are being implemented in this area. There is more to it than words – concrete measures are being developed. So it is that for me, too, it becomes central to stress that an important element, and perhaps a special challenge in these years of Nordic cooperation, is the close relationship developed with neighbouring countries through Baltic cooperation and North Calot cooperation. We are in a historic phase in which building relations with the institutions of the neighbouring countries – both political and civil – is crucial for the kind of development we will have in the coming decades in the Baltic Sea region and in the North Calote. It is good to see that we are in contact with each other at different levels — parliamentary, government — and that we can stimulate exchanges between these countries in the civil field. It can be absolutely crucial for how our part of the world will evolve in the near future. With this, I guess I've been told that we in the Center Party actually see Nordic cooperation as a potential arena more than an arena we should look at the constraints of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e249	Following the debate on the Nordic Council, reading comments in the newspapers, I sometimes have the impression that Nordic cooperation with a certain kind of real political cynicism is being considered, almost leading. But I have a certain need, when you first talk about real politics, to correct the picture. We who went to primary school at the time it was called primary school and were seven years old, learned that if we turned Norway into an axis with Oslo as the center, the northernmost part of Norway ended in Rome. That way we got a perspective on the rest of Europe. I would like to complement the geography perspective. If we look at the world from New Zealand, we are sitting at the top of the engine that controls the ocean currents that are the prerequisite for life in our part of the world, and that, if they were not present, would make Europe north of Spain almost uninhabitable, namely the Gulf Stream. If we then move to the churches and pull a line southward, we would be in the middle of Lilleasia or about the height of Cyprus, and if we add to the geopolitical perspective, that northeast of Norway is one of the three largest remaining oil and gas reserves on this globe, we should at least be able to realistically draw the conclusion that Norway needs all the friends we have, and that we should take care of them. It's simply a form of vitamin injection against real political cynicism. But because you feel that the EU system is heavy and important – and that’s important, even though Norway has chosen the form of connection we have – let’s also consider it: Is it going like a lightning train today? No, it doesn't. It is precisely in a reflection and reflection phase following the referendum in France and the Netherlands on the draft Constitutional Law. If we take a step further, we know that Norway is involved in Schengen cooperation, but it is not the United Kingdom and Ireland. So the whole European landscape and the entire northern landscape are not one-dimensional. In this context, I would like to draw the representative's attention to the fact that, in a quiet way, large political capital has been built up in the Nordic region. You could almost have added, 'Just try it!' Because that's what he said, and I'd like to say it that way. How can this benefit us? Several representatives have been involved, but I want to get into it to tell you about the importance of the calm and factual work that is taking place at the Nordic Council. In the circle that several speakers have been in, and that goes in the northern part of Norway, that is, the entire Barents region, we have Arctic Council. The Arctic Council has all the Nordic countries plus Canada, Russia and the United States. To say it with a dry substatement: it's an important advice. Could it be, for example, does the Nordics think they have common interests in legal thinking? Could it be that Jens Evensen's excellent work in the 1970s is no longer entirely sustainable around 2006, when we are also going to the north, where oatmeal cannot only be copied? It could be. Could it be that we have a common interest, for example. Lawyers in the Nordic countries? Well, we do. We have, as representatives have been involved, when, for example: the fight against organised crime. I'll add another theme. Could it be that the work started to see the interface between the fight against terrorism and human rights gives a Nordic dimension? At least that gives us an important perspective in which we all have to realize that fast and violent events often shake societies and not always lead to sensible decisions. One recent example is the debate on the Patriot Act in the United States. four years after its adoption. But we're having a debate. Could it be – knocking in this pulpit – that others can contribute precisely by raising that perspective? Throughout EU cooperation, justice and justice policies are developing strongly. Could it be that all Nordic cooperation gives a dimension to imagining ourselves within the sphere of civil law? If we go on the subject on which the representative of Reikvam was involved, namely research, it is at least clear that there is a lot to learn from each other. The Finns have, for example: an adventurous ability to count to three – Nokia, Nokia, Nokia. We have not always been as good at concentrating in Norway, but Finns are a people who have learned that when the wall falls out of the economy, they have to get on the roof. They've experienced it twice. They experienced it in a situation when they had to pay damages to the Soviet Union after World War II. They made it record fast. And they did it when much of their economy fell out when the wall fell and the Soviet system collapsed. They had to do something. Could it be that such unaccompanied countries as Finland, which have had to deal with this, and Norway, which is a charming mixture of being a developing country with rich access to raw materials — u-country in that sense — and at the same time an entirely advanced country in terms of education and welfare performance, together, because of the community that has all been sketched, had an energy we could redeem? I think so. I think the representative's observation of pay after he's been on a study trip to Armenia reminds me that many on this globe are looking for institutions that quietly build civilization and keep it up. It's not like tabloid headlines are always created by, but you the world, it can be created a toughness and a strength that means something on the day it runs out, and maybe rather before it clears up, in the sense that you can build resistance, and you can build consciousness. There is no doubt about the perspective that the representative of Højbrätten took up in connection with North-West Russia, where the border in the north between Finnmark and the Murmansk region is the closest we get in our part of the world to the US-Mexico border. From my time as Minister of Justice, I agreed that the Norwegian police should not carry full Russians, because they would make more money in a Norwegian prison than a Russian policeman in Murmansk serves. The practical Norwegian remedy was that they were not caged. On the contrary, they were expelled from the kingdom by a fine that was so deterrent that no one wanted to repeat the experiment later on. You learn from interpersonal cooperation when you have to find boundaries so that you don't break down the neighbor's respect for yourself. Then you learn that you have to coexist. I think that this co-existence arena presents challenges and great opportunities in the international situation we have, which, of course, is calling for some institutions to be capable of success and endurance. Thus, from the perspective of the Left, Nordic cooperation is very important. It can be revitalized along many axes. I've suggested someone. Other representatives have also discussed this. But I have to say that it had to be unusually geopolitically naive of Norway if we forget where we are located. We can't move ourselves – cut us out of Sweden and get towed down in Biscayabukta. We're right there. If we distance ourselves from geopolitical realities – it is possible that as a good care I have been taught this through the course of generalisation through life – it is clear that if Parliament were in the Church, perhaps the perspectives would have been different. But it doesn't. It's on the Lion Hill. We still have a duty to take with us the perspective that we can get by moving around this country and seeing the country from other sides. If we move to the western part of the country, from which the Nordic Minister of Cooperation is from in 2006, we come to hugely rich areas of the sea outside Norway, where there are clear common interests and sometimes conflict lines that we have not managed to resolve within the Western-Nordic community. It is clear that in many of these areas we have dimensions that call for quiet political everyday work. It is possible that some of the problem with Nordic cooperation is that we cannot deliver the tabloid headlines. The dynamics of policies have often become such that they need to be re-elected, and they need to provide some headlines in the month. I get comfort from co-representatives that there are plenty of arenas for the kind of work, because, as everyone knows, politics, even at home, consists of quite a lot of tough everyday work that only appears after a while. In my opinion, Nordic cooperation is almost a basic life insurance for a country like Norway, as we are located geopolitically, and where we can also be proud that we have long had friendships that we can maintain and further develop. I was not present when the Danish Prime Minister spoke in Reykjavik. I hope at least that Norwegian prime ministers and Norwegian state councils will be present in the meetings that are coming later, and that they will express themselves with reflected wisdom and great weight in defending the Nordic institutions. I think, for example: that the representative, Mr Brøwby, drew up important visions for this. I think all the speakers have done it. When I chose to use engagement and speaking time in this way, it's because I wanted to make a deal with what I would call the real-political, slightly cynical, almost life-oriented consideration of Nordic cooperation as something passé. What is Passion in this world? Who's been given a glass ball where you can see the security dimensions into a distant future? Who gave it to me? I don't think any of us have been given it. I think this calls for a lot of humility, and where the conclusion is that the friends we have are going to be happy, and we're going to take care of them. If you have friends, you'll have more friends next time. I think that's a good moral in this world, where there's certainly enough of the challenges that are storming around us, and that will also be noticeable in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e277	The North is an important arena to get an overview of political issues that are important to Norway. Nordic cooperation is a set of values, a network and a specific programme that no other region can show. We'll be proud of that. We're going to use that. And that's what we're always going to look for to improve. The Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers are two aspects of the same policy. Both must do their utmost to ensure that Nordic cooperation has the necessary dynamics. In his work, the Council of Ministers also takes systematic account of what the Nordic Council thinks. Sometimes the Nordic Council underestimates its own influence on the Council of Ministers, since this influence may rarely be entirely traceable. A clear political signal at a superior level is undoubtedly in favour of increasing the impact of the Nordic Council. Several have been in on it, and I want to underline it the same way. The benefits of Nordic cooperation are the result of the willingness and effort of the participants in the total. We have a shared responsibility for Nordic cooperation delivering dialogue and action on the issues we are burning for in the Nordic region. As the leader of Nordic cooperation this year, I am particularly concerned that the dialogue between the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council should be the best. The Norwegian Presidency Programme has three main areas: cooperation in the Nordic welfare model knowledge, innovation and value creation in the Nordic regions These are areas where the Nordic countries have strong common interests, and where there is a great deal of room for Nordic benefit. In the north, the new Russian programme and the revised Arctic Cooperation Programme are becoming an important travel hub for the Council of Ministers. Both came into force at the end of the year. During the Reykjavik session, I noted that the Nordic Council called for more specificisation of the Russian programme, and that is what we are doing. Otherwise, I would like to mention that the recently closed Norwegian Presidency of the Barents Council has been important to establish concrete cooperation with the Barents Council of Ministers. It is also positive that the Council of Ministers has now received approval from Russia to open offices in Kaliningrad. In the north, Nordic countries have a large potential to contribute to a holistic approach and an active and targeted policy in the region. It can easily be illustrated by the fact that Finland is today the Presidency country of the Barents Council and the future Presidency country of the EU, that Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Government Cooperation and is a member of the Arctic Council – where we are to be succeeded by Sweden and Denmark – and that Iceland is with the Presidency of the Austrian Council, which is then to be taken over by Sweden. Just that we have to take Nordic advantage of. I have also noted that the Stortinget and the Nordic Council at the Barents Parliamentary Conference in Bodø in June 2005 showed that a good dialogue between parliamentarians in Northern Europe is of great value. This may also be a follow-up meeting theme, which Berit Brørby was in. Such a perspective is consistent in many ways with governments' view of cooperation with other regional organisations in the Nordic region, and will be well received if the Stortinget and other parties find it appropriate. The second area of funding for the welfare model is important, because the Nordic welfare model is unique and actually a trademark of the rare. But he is under pressure, both as a result of economic conditions and political considerations. In other words, there are good reasons why Norway has chosen to make the Nordic welfare model one of its main issues under the presidency this year. In the Nordic region, we have a relatively high tax level, we have large public sectors and strong worker protection – while at the same time we have the highest standard of living and strong economic growth. Some people would call it a paradox, I'd say it's a context. The key lies in the Nordic model's basic value: the similarity sidebar. The product is egalitarian well-being and competitive, innovative, stable and with relatively few poor societies. The welfare society is simply a competitive advantage. Therefore, we also need to constantly develop the Nordic welfare model. More people have realized that it is important that young people see the same challenge, that they understand and have the same basic vision. That is why, under the Nordic Presidency, we are going to set up a Nordic Youth Panel, including the Nordic Youth Panel. shall discuss what the Nordic welfare model should look like in the future. The Presidency shall also focus more generally on living conditions and health for exposed children and young people, such as: The representative, Højbräten, was strongly involved. Another concrete welfare measure will be to continue work on the use of telemedicine between Nordic countries. I am aware that the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council has been systematically involved in the review of the Norwegian Presidency programme. Among other things, the representative Brörby was in the way one has done it. I thought that was very exciting. I really appreciate it, and I think that having the Nordic dimension is of great benefit to us ministers, in our follow-up and in the work of raising issues for the Stortinget. That's where I think we have a job to do. It's a good start, and here I think we have something to develop in layers, find some form of it. In addition, the Presidency shall continue the work of modernising the structure of the Council of Ministers. The process shall contribute to a stronger focus on priority areas, and from 1 January there shall be 11 and not 18 Councils of Ministers. We have a good process in which we are in the process of finding cooperation solutions that will take care of these valuable activities in the Councils of Ministers that are now being laid down or turned down. For it is also an important point that the work does not end. In addition, the Trade Councils will look at each of their sectors in order to find out what can be done better in the internal structures. As part of this modernisation work, we also see closer to the budgetary process. It is necessary to make cooperation more relevant and more flexible. Of course, it is crucial to have a good dialogue with the Nordic Council. Nordic cooperation for the reduction of border barriers that many have encountered is continuing. Many have been doing so in recent years, and cooperation is well anchored in the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is now focusing in particular on barriers to business, and the ministers of industry have a demanding task. Poul Schlüter, who was the special representative of the Ministers for Cooperation, concluded his work at the turn of the year after a great deal of effort in this area. Now it is up to the Norwegian Presidency to assess how we are going to carry on this work – whether it is for a special representative, or whether a new one is going to focus on some of the areas that Schlüter has identified and on which it is important that we move on, and perhaps have a responsibility added to those who have to do something about it. The Regional Ministers recently adopted a new strategy on how the Council of Ministers should support border regional cooperation, which may also be useful for the work on the reduction of border barriers. I have to say that I have appreciated sitting in Stortinget today and listen to a good and reflected debate. I am so fresh in this that I allowed myself to say that I have learned a lot, and it is good to sit and right on good posts about the Nordic work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e324	Let me first refer to the post that Berit Brørby made, and the visions she drew for the further Nordic cooperation. I will also initially give my support to very much of what Inge Wohnning said, and the analyses he had on why we need Nordic cooperation. In addition, I would like to refer to the debate that is now on our north-eastern policy and that the discussion we have here today is taking place at a time when the focus is on north-eastern policy. It updates, in my opinion, a debate on how we can best use Nordic cooperation as a framework for it. What was a region characterized by cold war, tense relations between east and west and little human contact across the borders, has evolved into a more open region. It has not been many years since security policy and military and strategic strength balance that needed all other approaches aside. Now we have completely different perspectives for Northern Region policy. They're exciting, and they're challenging. It's about people-to-people cooperation, about energy policy, about value creation, about indigenous peoples. First of all, we are talking about a optimism in the northern regions, an optimism that has long since been seen, but also, to a large extent, difficult obstacles, such as nuclear clean-up in Kola, consideration for the vulnerable Arctic environment and open questions in relation to Russia. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers are among the key meeting points for the development of a policy for the north. Of course, there may be nuances, even disagreements, between the Nordic countries about where the main focus should be. Norway is, of course, concerned with the northern regions that we have, Sweden is interested in the Baltic Sea region – another region in strong growth, which has changed its focus in the EU in the north-east direction – and Finland continues to have a record of achieving the northern dimension of the EU. Fortunately, it is also in our interest to get the northern dimension concretely and materialized. This applies not least to projects in North-West Russia. I want to refer to some other articles about the problems that lie there. I also believe that the shades we have between the Nordic countries in the view of where the main focus is to be in the northern regions complement each other and make us see this in a context. I would also like to point out what Inge Wohnung said about this cooperation, that we have three NATO countries and two non-NATO countries, we have three EU countries and two non-EU countries. As one of the countries outside the EU, it is in Norway’s interest that the Nordic Council can play a role, as well as, of course, other cooperation bodies, such as the Baltic Sea Council, the Barents Council and the Arctic Council, including bodies. Russia meets. The contents of the Nordic Council and the work of the Nordic Council have naturally changed their character through the over 50 years of this cooperation. We have experienced incredible changes in our close neighborhood. A frozen hostile image is replaced by diversity, democracy, contact and cooperation, but also by uncertainty and unforeseeableness. But our challenges and opportunities come from the physical breach, or breakthrough, of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Since then, large parts of former Eastern Europe have become members of both the EU and NATO. Not least in relation to Nordic cooperation. Sweden and Finland have become members of the EU, and Nordic cooperation naturally bears the hallmark of this. This is why there has been a debate on the development of the Nordic Council. Our assessment is that there is still a need to maintain and not least further develop Nordic parliamentary cooperation. However, it needs to become more dynamic and adapt to the challenges and tasks that need to be addressed in and between the Nordic countries and, in particular, between the Nordic countries and the EU and between the Nordic countries and other neighbourhoods. In the further development of Nordic cooperation, the Committee considers that the Swedish Trade Union Committees should also be more closely involved in Nordic parliamentary cooperation, not least in the follow-up to the 2006 Nordic Presidency Programme. In addition, in my view, we should have better coordination of Norwegian participation in the various parliamentary assemblies, in which representatives of this process are sitting, and which are partly overlapping in terms of questions and issues raised. If we take NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and if we take the Council of Europe, this will be a forum that will also discuss relations with the Baltic Sea region, with the North, with the indigenous population, with the environment, with nuclear waste. This means that the stick is also sent: it is important that we take a discussion between the individual delegations in various parliamentary assemblies and look at where we overlap, and look at possible cooperation. Norway has the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2006 and has made the following main priorities: cooperation in the Nordic welfare model in the north, which is also at the moment the focus of the EU, and it is very exciting what is happening there, knowledge, innovation and value creation. In the case of Northern Region policy, emphasis is given, inter alia, to: dialogue with Russian partners, Arctic cooperation, a Nordic strategy for climate and environmental pollution in the Arctic, active cooperation in the field of energy and active Nordic involvement in the development of the Northern Dimension. This is a programme that performs well the tasks chiseled out of Norwegian North Region policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e353	The case-rapporteur, Mr. Waksdal, had a few sore toes with his opening speech. For this meeting, as at the Nordic Council, all the other parties stand up and celebrate each other for a good, unique and great cooperation at the Nordic Council. And it's clear that Inge Wohnning and Berit Brørby are obviously in a completely different room than where Fogh Rasmussen is. But I'm not going to look back. I will try to look forward and not dwell so much on what has happened. For now, Norway has taken over the Presidency, and one of the themes is the Nordic welfare model. It's a good topic, and it's going to be interesting to see where this welfare model goes. The Council of State also included in its article here how fine the Norwegian welfare model is: We had a high tax burden, and we had a good welfare as a result. That was when, fortunately, I took a piece with me from the VG of 10 January. There is a comparison between disabled people and pensioners if you are in Norway and if you are in Spain. It's a very good comparison and a good piece of work by VG. We see that the tax in Norway is 14 pst. – it may not be that much for a retired or disabled person. But if you move to Spain, it's down to 3 pst. The proportion of medical visits for disability and old-age pensioners is DKK 125 in Norway. In Spain, as we often say, a poor country is south, it's free. The owner’s share of the specialist is NOK 265 in Norway. In Spain it is free. Then we have the total self-interest. That's $1,585 right there. It's free in Spain. Then there's also a comparison in terms of car and petrol and something like that. I'm not going to go into that right here. We have to stick to the welfare model. I think both car and petrol belong to well-being, but that is not entirely safe for the others. It's going to be exciting to see what kind of comparison we get when we get all the Nordic countries into a welfare model and maybe get it set up on a schematic basis, and see, among other things. that Sweden does not have VAT on medicine, as far as I know, while we do have 25 pst. But I'm not going to stay at the old place. We'll see ahead. Another tribute word that has remained in this debate is open borders. Yes, I am completely too open borders, I, totally – remove customs service on the border! But what is it really like in today's reality? Well, for us Northmen, just going to Sweden, it's almost an iron carpet if we're going to bring something back, whether you're going to move back here, bring a car, have some food or try to get some machines over. Or if you're going to Sweden for a little ride, you're not allowed to bring back what's more than 10 kg. Then you have beer: a sharp six-pack. We're not going to take the meat, because it's infected everything that doesn't come from Norway. Car rental is a separate chapter, and if you carry your exam papers, they will not be approved in Norway. I'm not going to bring alcohol at all, because you all know it. If you're going to run your own company, it's also a chapter by itself, as it'll be too far to take here. But I'll think positively – I'll do it. I'm not going to take anything more about it, I'm going to think positive. And then we get the next time we come here and we're going to talk about Nordic cooperation and the unique cooperation, see if there's these open borders, and whether we've got the welfare model that maybe Spain has, and we've got these nice, beautiful boundaries. I'm looking forward to my next trip to Sweden. I'm waiting anxiously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e371	I experienced the representative Nistad so that he thrives – of course – best on the Costa del Sol and not so much in the Nordic region. It must now be his choice. But I think his whole article testifies that the Progress Party and he lacks complete knowledge of what Nordic cooperation has been and can also be in the future. Then it is tempting to say that the Nordic Council has not been bothered by the precise proposals of the Progress Party. I can't remember my twelve years there a single proposal that has come from that edge to treatment, which could have improved on a number of issues, or perhaps contributed to the debate on renewal, not least. Everyone has a responsibility to contribute, and I think it's strange that the largest opposition party in the country now, which would like to make use of in more or less all contexts, does not take the opportunity to do so in Nordic cooperation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e376	I can comfort the representative Berit Brørby that I am rare on the Costa del Sol, but I read the newspapers, and it was an excellent post that was in the paper. But I often find myself in places that are even further south than the Costa del Sol, and there are already forms of cooperation that are far ahead of those of the Nordic Council. What have we done in these 50 years in the Nordic Council? We're flagging that we can travel to Sweden without taking the red pass – that's what we're flagging. What else is it? Very little. You have the same forms of cooperation, or better, in West Africa, you have it in some African countries, in South Africa, you have it in many other countries. There is no unique cooperation that you can just cross a boundary. But I'm going to take it with the good, I'm going to make suggestions, and then we'll see what the Nordic Assembly is doing with these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e381	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e384	The position of Stortinget clearly states that Nordic cooperation needs to be revitalised, but that it has not lost its relevance. It is claimed that Nordic cooperation has not become less important, but takes new forms in a globalised world. I support these conclusions, but will still put my finger on something I think is missing in the position: focus on youth and recruitment. I think the Nordic Council can be an important arena for the future, but I don't think it's going to happen by itself. I believe that young people in the Nordic region today may consider Europe or the world to be their international arenas, and the danger is definitely present for the Nordic countries to be overlooked or perceived as insignificant in the future as the cooperation arena. In order to avoid that, and to help strengthen the role of Nordic cooperation in a long-term perspective, it is necessary to anchor Nordic cooperation among those who will continue to do so when today's generation of parliamentarians are no longer in power. It is necessary to raise the youth dimension of the Nordic Council. In order to achieve such anchoring, it is essential to facilitate the conditions for youth organisations and the Nordic political arenas where young people have the opportunity to participate in a Nordic community. It essentially involves two things: Firstly, financial arrangements must be made for cooperation bodies and Nordic youth policy organisations to meet in order to discuss and develop the policies of the past and the future in the Nordic region. It is not about spending money, but it is about financing in a way that requires sensible resource use, but that contributes to continuity and predictability. Secondly, it is absolutely essential that the youth forums that exist be included in the debate in question, that they be taken on board, and that they be taken seriously, so that they can have real influence on the decisions taken in the Nordic area. Only in this way can this arena be seen as meaningful, and only in this way can one really revitalize Nordic cooperation and continue into the next generation as well. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Grande Røys Council has mentioned this in its article. But I encourage the Minister to include already existing cooperation bodies when a new area of youth cooperation is launched in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e401	I'm not sure how much Thore A. Nistad has contributed to strengthening Nordic cooperation, but at least he has contributed to my quote collection with today's statement: Car and petrol are well-being. It was probably a pretense that he did not bring beef and spirits in the same sling. There are certainly perspectives here in a major and important debate. Dagfinn Højbråten showed in his post to Ingvar Carlsson and his statement that the parties must also cooperate. I agree with both Høybräten and Carlsson. Through my political function, one of the things I've learned most from and appreciated was the cooperation I've had with my party traps in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation must also focus on concrete political issues. Nordic cooperation must be more than conferences and reports. It should be, but we have to address and solve questions and challenges that matter to the Nordic citizens in their everyday lives. The Schlüter report, as many have mentioned in the debate today, highlighted many of the challenges people face in their everyday lives in crossing borders in our Nordic countries. It is important that we follow up on this with concrete things. Let me mention a few examples of Nordic cooperation, one in good and one in bad. Over many years, the Arvika region in Värmland and Kongsvinger region in South Hedmark have cooperated. This cooperation falls naturally, as the limits of many almost do not exist. People live on one side of the border and work on the other side of the border. The municipalities have extensive cooperation, and Hedmark County and Värmland County have extensive cooperation. The joy is that we have also managed to cooperate at national level, for here Norwegian Aetat and Swedish labour authorities have set up a joint work office on the border. This is how Nordic cooperation is to work. We're going to solve people's challenges in everyday life just by thinking this way. An example that is not very good is cross-border communication, and again I am talking about it between Norway and Sweden. Last year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Union resolution. It is bitter that the same year ended the daily train departures between Oslo and Stockholm. That's not how we're going to cooperate in the Nordic region. If we mean something about Nordic cooperation, we need to have, among other things. a transport system allowing people to move across borders. I therefore hope that the Minister for Cooperation can take a round with his colleague the Minister for Transport on the very challenge that the Transport and Communications Committee in the Stortinget also pointed to in its budget setting. We have to do something about the train connections between Norway and Sweden. The last concrete example I want to mention is – and I am very pleased with the previous speaker said – what is addressed by the Nordic Council of Youth. At their last meeting in Reykjavik, a number of concrete proposals were taken up. One of the proposals was the introduction of a common youth card in the Nordic region, i.e. a common youth card with moderation, for example, on public transport and cultural activities. Today, if you live in Sweden and study in Copenhagen, for example, or if you live in Norway and study in Sweden, there is a variety of rules. Here we should all do a job to get common Nordic rules. The Grand Duchy and the other Nordic parliaments have a responsibility to follow up the issues raised in the Nordic Council of Youth, and proposals for a single youth card are such a good, concrete example that we should follow up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e414	The representative, Nistad, was in on a mission called a tour. It is in itself a fun and honest task, but I would like to say to you that it can be done for the benefit of people other than those of the Grand Duchy. It's rare to hear posts in this room that are so perfectly exposed to perspective, that will not do anything political, and that actually betrays a complete disinterest in politics at all. If you are not interested in politics, it is natural that you are not interested in Nordic cooperation and in the opportunities that lie there. I think there's reason to repeat what I said in my main post instead, that of course it's the way with all the organized cooperation structures in this world that it never comes out more than you're willing to put in. Anyone who is not interested in using them for anything has very little reason to criticise that nothing comes out either. The only small point of light I could hear from the representative, Nistad, was that he suggested that he had got the idea that perhaps it might be possible to propose proposals to the Nordic Council. It is good that, after being there for some years, you discover that this is possible. So to one element that the representative Dørum was in, and as I think it's quite important to bring it up again, because at my discretion it illustrates that Nordic cooperation has a current potential that we have a commitment to exploit. We are working in a working group of the Nordic Council on the theme of international terrorism and what can be done in terms of legislative work and practical legal policy in that respect. One of the most burning global challenges in today's world is to find the necessary balance between the need to strike back against groupings that, for ideological or other reasons, want to rage all organized, civilised societies in today's world, to find effective countermeasures without going into the ditch that at the same time let go of the principles on which our own civilization is often built through generations, in respect of the integrity of each citizen. It is one of the main challenges for this Parliament, for Norway, too, to find the right balance point. Now we are in the situation that all the Nordic countries have carried out quite extensive political investigations into this matter. We have common traditions. At the same time, we have different experiences. Then I would say that it would approach political brain death if we were not able to see that cooperating between the Nordic countries to find ways to solve these things is a resource. There's of course reason to be sober when it comes to talking about the Nordic model. I'm not sure if there is such a very good coverage to assume that there is one Nordic model, neither in social welfare policy nor in other areas. You have to be sober, but at the same time you have an obligation to build on what is built and which has proved that the Nordic countries are relatively much better working for their citizens than most other countries, both in Europe and in the world. When UN annual comparisons in all countries show that in most contexts the Nordic countries are cutting high, there is no basis for brittle or boasting about it, but it is a challenge to how we can get even further, precisely because what has been done obliges us today to make an equally substantial effort as the generations before us. Politics is a serious matter!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e433	As the representative Nistad also pointed out, it is obvious that we have lost some of our time today. The representatives of Brørby and Wohnning obviously did not like that we asked questions about the content of the Nordic Council meeting activities. Both also disliked the fact that, like the Danish Prime Minister, we want to revitalise cooperation and ask questions about the future of cooperation if this is not substantially renewed. The representative on the pay side specifically asked what we wanted for changes in today's system, and what we wanted in today's situation. The representative of the Wage has obviously read part of our remarks, but he has clearly skipped the section where we arranged for a total review of cooperation at all levels in terms of form, content and obligations. We would not have called for a complete review if we had had all the answers today. So it's important that we do this in the right order: first, a review to see where it fails, and then find solutions to get a cooperation on the right track. It is my experience from both business and organisational life that if we are to have a dynamic and a development, we sometimes have to ask questions about whether we are doing things right. I also think we should be allowed to do so, but the debate has thus shown that only the Progress Party is interested in asking such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e446	Since the representative of Vaksdal repeated the hypothesis of Nistad about sore toes, I must be allowed to answer that I do not think the toes are particularly sore, but I have the general delivery gel that you should never put your fingers between when someone is trotting you on your toes. That is why I want to say clearly from when I believe that a political party is not doing its job, and it is not doing its job to require a complete review. It is usually the pure ‘axe shaft’. Because all that proves is that you're ignorant. The overall review has just been carried out with regard to Council of Ministers cooperation, and it was carried out two years ago with regard to parliamentary cooperation. It's an honest thing to be ignorant, but it's not an honest thing not to want to get involved in matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e453	As I said in my first post today, we are of course familiar with the fact that a lot of work has been done, but I also said that we are not satisfied with the grips that have been done. And like, among other things, the Danish Prime Minister, we want to make further efforts to establish a cooperation that can also work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e458	One of the things you can actually do if you have a constructive relationship is to present a vision, and I can't see that the Progress Party has presented a single vision of what you want with the Nordics. I am not going to comment on Nistad's reflections on the prices of consumer goods, but you have to have a vision. It's a vision that sets the direction for how to do something, and I've heard a number of speakers here tell about what political energy you mean to find in the Nordic region. The representatives of the Party have distinguished themselves by the fact that they have not drawn an image of any energy at a single point. That is what the representative on the pay side wants, and I would like to make it more clear: if you stand for something politically, you also have to focus on what you want and where you want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e463	A vision was requested. It is clear that if you want to have cooperation and want the best possible cooperation, you should not get out of the way to take a review and find the weaknesses in the system to improve them. In fact, it is only the Progress Party who has shown a willingness to do so today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e468	One may not expect one to be given full public information to the Progress Party in a one-minute reply, nor through the previous submissions. But I have to say that I am quite amazed and shocked by the basic political stance that the Progress Party has on Nordic cooperation – I do not need to be unparliamentary – especially given that in all the years they have been represented in the Storting and have been a member of the Nordic Council, they have not once used the opportunity to promote proposals to make Nordic cooperation vital and better and more forward-looking and to address all the things that they are obviously concerned about, but that we have not yet been presented. I have to say that should really be a challenge for an opposition party that would like to make itself felt in all the contexts of all the policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e473	There is clearly some wonder about the position of the Progress Party on Nordic cooperation. We clearly say from both comments and from this speaker that if we are to have such cooperation, it has to get better. Others have also said that, among other things: The Danish Prime Minister, and at our discretion, there is simply a confusion and little interest in this cooperation if we don't want to do anything. Some grips are taken, but we don't think it's good enough. We therefore want a complete review and will continue to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e480	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e483	Sometimes you get relatively provoked over the tone some politicians can take from this pulpit. I sat in the office and followed the representative of Wohnnings haselas with the Progress Party and the representatives of the Progress Party, and then I could not dare to take the floor. Every politician has his own style, but being as bare as elementary folklore as Inge Wohnung from this pulpit showed that he was, I just think is a shame. It's an arrogance that makes it very intrusive to sit in this room and talk about Nordic cooperation with a person who can't even cooperate rhetorically. I do not know if the representative Wohnning has so much experience from practical Nordic cooperation, but I do. I've been doing this with Sweden in particular. It's not easy. It's actually going to say nothing out of it. It has been initiated through processes such as the Nordic Council and other types of cooperation constellations. These are the concrete results of Nordic cooperation. To stand on this pulpit and disfellowship other depositors, I think the representative, Inge Wohnning, should remain in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e492	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e500	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-19.ana.ud2303e560	Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
