ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e83	Honourable co-representatives! Former prime minister and state councillor Inger Louise Valle is dead, 84 years old. Inger Louise Valle was a student of war in 1940, and graduated from commercial school in 1941. She passed the legal examination in 1951. Over the years of her occupation, she worked as a commercial teacher and as a secretary and consultant in the Directorate of Price, a position she held until 1958. Inger Louise Valle was appointed to the Consumer Council in 1958, appointed Consumer Ombudsman in 1973, and to the Director of Rationalisation in 1981. She was also part of a number of public committees, councils, boards and committees for a period of 40 years, between 1959 and 1999. As a politician, she spent three periods in Bærum City Council. Between 1971 and 1980 she served as the Council of State in various departments: the Ministry of Family and Consumer Affairs, the Ministry of Consumers and Administration, the Ministry of Justice and Police and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Labour. Inger Louise Valle represented Akershus on the Stortinget from 1977 to 1981. For three of the years she was a State Council member, and in the last year she was a member of the Social Committee. Inger Louise Valle will be remembered for his long efforts and great labour force. Nevertheless, in the years leading the Ministry of Justice, she was the first person to express the political debate. As Minister of Justice, she wanted to see the fight against crime in a broader perspective, and far more than just being a matter of the length of the sentence and the content of imprisonment. She therefore felt the need to provide a big message — the one that was to be known as the ‘criminal report’ — to discuss the development of crime in the context of social conditions, attitudes of people and the personal and social situation of individuals. The criminal report aroused strong feelings, and became a political and personal burden to her. Inger Louise Valle himself stood firm for what she believed in, and although she was subjected to unfine attacks, she also experienced political support and fellow human care at this time. Many of the proposals considered to be highly controversial in the 1978 Communication have been incorporated into current legislation. With few exceptions, everything she proposed has been implemented and has largely become a political joint venture. Inger Louise Valle's political choices were based on the goal and the dream of «freedom, equality and brotherhood» – equality for the many, solidarity with the weak. She wrote in her autobiography that she was proud that it was these simple reflections that led the ship's daughter into the Labor Movement. She was a strong, far-sighted and committed politician, and a decent and warm man. When her biography, "This is what I stand for," came out in 1989, the newspaper's reporter wrote, "If I were to live and die in another world, I would choose Inger Louise Valles. There will be love and care for the driving forces in social machinery, not profit and egoism." Many will be able to sign it. She herself wrote: “A vital condition for success and happiness is that we humans learn to live in relation to each other – that we recognize with our minds and feelings that sharing with others and caring and loving for one and for the many gives us a deeper meaning in life.” Her life gave deeper meaning, and she had love and care for many, not least for her dear family. Our thoughts and compassion go today to her survivors. A life course marked by Norwegian politics and public administration for several decades has passed. We're at peace with Inger Louise Valle's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e113	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Stein Knutsen, has taken the seat. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e121	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Per Ove Width, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of a Security Committee in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e126	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2592]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e156	Like previous years, in the context of the 2005 Annual Communication, I would like to express the Committee's satisfaction with the work of the EOS Committee. Since it is the last time Leif Mevik meets in Stortinget as the sample leader, I would like to take the opportunity to extend a special thanks to him for the solid effort he has made in the sample. The EOS Committee shall monitor the activities of the intelligence, surveillance and security services according to decisions and assumptions. As indicated in the Annual Report, control activities have been extensive in 2005, but these activities have not revealed serious or routine service failures. Furthermore, cooperation with the services surveyed is satisfactory. This is joyous. It is important that the sample remains up-to-date on changes in the technical information collection of operational services. Technological developments take place with stormstorms, and it is absolutely essential that the sample be able to follow up on what is happening. This is demanding, and I assume that the sample will return to Stortinget if additional resources are needed to ensure the necessary competence. The selection has, through its control activities, highlighted questions of a principle nature. This applies, inter alia, to: the question of the borderline between non-registrable political opinions and those that can be understood as support for terrorism, and therefore there will be factual grounds for registering and examining them. In some cases, one can face difficult balances. However, it is important to stress that political opinions alone should not serve as a basis for registration. An overall committee emphasises the importance of the sample paying particular attention to the use of the extended legal framework by the PST to use coercive substances during investigations conducted for the purposes of the 2005 service. The Committee has noted that the number of complaints is fairly stable and that none of the cases closed in 2005 provided a basis for criticism of services. With regard to the PST, the Committee stresses that the control of the processing of personal data is essential for assessing whether a service complies with the individual assessment requirement before any registration of individual data is made and that the discretionary threshold for registration is not too low. Similarly, the importance of good practices for erasure of information that are no longer relevant is underlined. In some cases, the committee has asked questions about the reasons for maintaining some records. Let me stress the importance that the sample also continues to follow in the way of the service to practice the legislation and to engage in a dialogue with the service on this matter. The issue of the provision of personal data to non-resident collaborative services has been addressed to a great deal of attention in the annual report of the sample. This is particularly relevant in the area of counter-terrorism, where information or requests are sent to a number of countries’ services, but also in relation to current individual cases. According to the sample, the service has access to the provision of personal data. In view of recent developments in the strengthening of criminal provisions and the rules of procedure for terrorist offences in many countries, the issue of the provision of information on a person, if this could lead to a death penalty or to treatment contrary to fundamental guarantees of legal certainty, has been updated. Two legal investigations reflect differing views on the issue. I will not go into this in detail in this context, but assume that the forthcoming treatment in Stortinget will provide a clarification. There are specific challenges in relation to the amendments to the Law of 17 June 2005 on changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, which allowed the police, including the PST, to use coercive measures in criminal investigations. This home shall be a limited supplement and a narrow safety valve for the PST reserved for the preparation of gross crimes, such as acts of terrorism or the like. It is important that the sample pay particular attention to the practicalisation of the provision of further work. The Committee noted that by means of a random check, the election revealed that six persons were registered on the basis of a request to support opposition groups using violent means and terrorist actions in their fight against a regime. There is reason to stress the importance of making an individual assessment of whether a person is registered. In reviewing the situation of the national safety authority, the selection has highlighted issues relating to the importance of foreign cultural relations in the context of security clearance. In a specific case as has been explained, there were no concrete security breaches that caused a case to be raised about the reassessment of the clearance. According to the sample, the basis for reporting was the sole assessment of his personality and cultural ties. An overall committee assumes that safety clearance issues are addressed on the basis of an overall assessment of the individual employee’s suitability to maintain the current clearance. Foreign cultural backgrounds cannot in themselves be grounds for refusal or downgrading of security clearance. The committee has set out in particular two issues, namely access to be authorised for ‘restricted’ after withdrawal of the security clearance, and breach of the rules of the Security Act on Document Security. In my view and in the view of the majority of the committee, it is natural to await the outcome of the examination of these two matters before the Committee may consider them. However, we assume that the sample follows up on the cases and informs the Storting about the follow-up to the 2006 Annual Report. It is positive that neither complaints nor criticisms were raised in the Intelligence Service in 2005 in relation to the control of the technical procurement activity. However, information exchange with foreign cooperating services is a sensitive area. Under the legislation, information on Norwegian citizens shall not be provided to foreign cooperation partners from the Intelligence Service, but shall be forwarded to the PST. The sample has not found a basis for carrying out controls related to such information exchange in 2005 and an overall committee assumes that the sample will continue to work to find an appropriate solution for the implementation of such controls in 2006. Questions have been raised about the rights of the EOS Committee to access documents of the CRUs Coordination and Advisory Committee for Intelligence and Security Services. An overall committee expresses satisfaction with the clarification of the Ministry of Justice, which supports the right of access to the committee. Should the bodies of the Grand Duchy, such as the EOS Committee and the National Audit Office, be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them, there can be no doubt as to their right of access to documents relevant to their work. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e200	The EOS committee is, in SV's opinion, an important selection, which we are pleased to have operationally in the Stortinget. In SV we have a story where we have had a strong focus on this type of question, because we know that some people have been monitored in an unlawful way. I won't stay long with that story today, but it's important that we don't forget that we have something behind us that shouldn't repeat. That is why it is important for us to have the EOS Committee to ensure that we have the necessary control of these services by Stortingen. I think the EOS committee has done a very good job in what they have presented to the Stortinget. I fully agree with the rapporteur's comments, where she made a good account of what SV also stands for. But let me stay in one area, and it's the boundary between what's to be monitored and what's not to be monitored. SV is also pleased that we have a intelligence service that supervises and controls things that could be harmful to the rich. With the increase in terror that we've had in recent years, it's even more important that we have an operational and good intelligence service. But at the same time, we know that you can come to a border country when it comes to this with opinions. It is important that people who are politically engaged and who speak in the media, and also those who are solidarity with other countries, do not fall within the concept of monitoring. Unfortunately, we sometimes see that you're walking a little bit into that area. So, people who have clear political opinions, or like, for example, engages in solidarity work against other nations and liberating movements in other countries, in a way comes easily into the same category as those to be monitored because it is absolutely necessary. As of now, I think the Intelligence Service is working well. We see that you have a good balance in this particular field. But it also shows that the sample we have has a very important job to do, so that you don't wander over, which leads to individuals being unduly monitored, with the loads that we know it will be for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e211	At the outset, I would like to point out that, on a general basis, the EOS Committee stated that in 2005 routine failures or serious issues relating to the control of the police security service – PST have not been identified. The EOS Committee further states that there have been no problems in the cooperation relationship between the sample and the PST, and that the service appears to be responsive to the views promoted by the sample. This is satisfactory and, in the light of what the rapporteur also expresses, particularly important both in relation to the time we live in and, not least, to the new tools – new methods and new coercive measures – for which the Stortingen opened up in the previous period. It updates all possible reasons for highlighting the importance of effective and good control, either of a more political nature or of another type of formal control. In 2005, the sample received 10 complaints from individuals targeting the PST, compared with 12 in 2004. I record that the number of complaints is relatively stable, and that there is no statement of criticism against the PST in any of the cases. Checks on the records and records of the service constitute the core of the continuous inspection activities of the EOS Committee against the Police Security Service and the new SMART work register of the service has enabled the sample to carry out a better control in 2005 than in the past. In this respect, I am pleased to note that the sample inspection of the work register has not revealed any critical aspects of a general nature. The routine and sample-based control of the processing of personal data by the service is essential in order to be able to properly assess compliance of the PST in practice with the requirement of an individual assessment before data on individual individuals is recorded and that the discretionary threshold for registration is not too low. In this context, I note that during 2005, the EOS Committee asked questions about the reasons for maintaining individual registrations, and that in most of these cases, the PST has found it appropriate to delete the registrations. Samples during the inspection of local PST units showed in one case that the topic archive had not been examined to remove unnecessary personal data and that the archive material was of earlier date and not of professional relevance. In this context, the committee asked the unit to give priority to the review of the relevant archives. These conditions will also be followed up by inspection activities of the Ministry of Justice in the PST. The PST Central Unit registered six persons in its work register in 2004 on the basis of opinions given to the media calling for support to opposition groups which also used violent means and terrorist actions in their resistance to the regime of a country, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur. When the relationship was taken up by the EOS Committee, the PST decided to delete the relevant records. However, the committee asked to clarify whether the service considered the registrations to be in accordance with the legislation in force at the time they were made and whether an individual assessment of the conditions of registration based on the individual’s comments should have been made. In its reply, the PST informed that the relevant records were made in view of further investigations being carried out, but unfortunately such investigations had not been carried out within a reasonable time. Therefore, the service assessed the registrations were within the scope of the mandate assigned to it and, according to the service, an individual assessment of individuals would be natural to carry out further processing of the information obtained. In closing letters from the EOS selection to the PST, the selection was written, among others. It may harm them, even ‘in any case, it is unsatisfactory that several persons were registered on the basis of political opinions to the media without any individual assessment having been made on the basis of the individual’s opinion or any other individual justification for the registrations’. [[is]] I share the sample's views on this point and stress the importance of an individual assessment of whether a person is to be registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e233	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e249	Today, the size handles the 2005 Annual Report from Stortingets ombdsmann for the administration, Document No. 4 for 2005-2006. It is important to point to the ombudsman's important function in an open and pluralistic, democratic society. One might say that the arrangement with an agent for the administration is a success. It is quite right to say that many countries have copied the system, as well as when we are involved in promoting the development of democracy in other countries, let an institution as the ombudsman of administration be part of the system of training for democracy. It is also interesting to note that the word 'ombodsmann' is now a word that you use in many languages. I thought it was in place to give praise to the caretaker for the work that was done. One notices that the number of issues raised by initiative is increasing. This returns a stronger element of dynamic. The Committee also has the impression that in 2005, the Ombudsman also has a good and satisfactory record of his control functions. The Committee also notes that the number of cases received by the Ombudsman from external actors is relatively stable, from 1,956 cases in 2005 to 1,932 cases in 2004. The Committee has noted that in 2005 all the administrative bodies did not take into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman. The Committee has some doubts as to the emphasis to be placed on this and as to whether there may be a basis for discussion of possible reactions. In this respect, the Committee refers to an issue referred to in the Annual Reports for 2003 and 2004 and under Chapters II and V of the Annual Report for 2005. The case is about a municipal bill that was charged with radio statements in a particular case. Despite the fact that the ombudsman has pointed out at several times his criticism of this, the complainant has not taken this into account and took the matter up to new handling. The Committee therefore wrote a letter to the Ombudsman asking for an overview of cases in which the Ombudsman had criticised the administration and where the administrative bodies had not taken this into account. It's not a big percentage of things, but of course bad enough for them. I therefore refer to the reply letter, which is attached to the setting. It is worth noting that part of the public administration – to be concrete: health professionals – circumvents public transparency by claiming that they are not part of the public administration and can therefore refuse the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy for the administration’s transparency of matters. The Committee is of the opinion that it is in the public interest, not least when it comes to patient and court proceedings, that the Ombudsman is given access to the activities of healthcare professionals. It is therefore necessary to implement the necessary measures to facilitate transparency in the activities of healthcare professionals, so that the caregiver is able to act as an ombudsman also for healthcare professionals and their clients. It seems strange that so many things are rejected without real-life management – 870 in 2005. Forty pst. of these cases were the reason why the case was still being handled by the administration, or that the complainant did not have the opportunity to complain. Such a rationale must be acceptable in relation to current practice, but still there are 60 psts left. Rejected things, which in numbers would be 520. The grounds for rejection are many. On page 40 of Document No. 4 is it done okay for these. With so many things being rejected, it's particularly important that the basics are good and clear to the complainant. This must be particularly true in cases of doubt. It is therefore better to handle a matter too much than a matter too small. It's right, when said, to make sense that the number of issues that become reality management is increasing in relation to the number of rejected cases. It is positive that the Ombudsman is more committed to dealing with matters on his own initiative and that this scheme has been continued and strengthened in 2005, in line with the earlier Committee signal. It is a relatively large leap from 18 cases in 2004 to 64 cases in 2005. The Committee sees clearly that the handling of the matter needs to be done in the circumstances and therefore takes a relatively long time, with the collection of documents and the questioning from all parties in order to clarify matters as closely as possible. However, the Committee believes it is particularly important that each case be dealt with as quickly as possible. However, this objective does not have to conflict with the objective of addressing several issues on its own initiative. At a later stage, it would be useful to get the average time of dealing with issues that come from the citizens, and the issues that the Ombudsman is taking on his own initiative. Maybe we can get such an overview at the next level, in Document No. 4 for 2006-2007. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ombudsman is continuing his work by demonstrating a lack of laws, regulations and practices. Legislation and practices should be continuously updated in order to meet changing needs. In particular, the Committee would point to the need to simplify the legislation of the powers it stands out as unnecessarily complex and inconvenient. Public activity is governed by a series of laws. It is particularly important that those who work with these laws have the necessary knowledge and benefit from them. The Committee sees a failure. This gives reason to connect an external body, such as the manager of the Stortinge. It is therefore right to say that the ombudsman's role as a counsel to public enterprises is to consider it particularly important. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e285	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e305	Many parents struggle to make the everyday life go up. How much we work, and how we do it at work, means a lot about how we feel about our closest. Employment policy is therefore a central part of the Christian People's Party's family policy. The possibility of a flexible working life for part-time and home-officed toddlers during periods gives time to children and counteracts the clutter of time. The Christian People's Party wants to make working life more family friendly. Many well to have children late, including because of education. Often, children come close when they first arrive. The Christian People's Party believes that a system that grants the right to parental leave even if you have not lit up new dishes will be a bonus for both young children's parents and employers. By maintaining parental rights even if women are not in paid work between births, it is up to the individual to choose whether to work for a short period of time or to be at home with the first person pending the next child. This is important in the fight against the past. The average age of mothers for the first time has increased steadily in recent years. In 2004, the mean age of the first-born was 28 years. In 1989, the corresponding age was 25.3 years — in other words, the average birth rate for women who have their first child has risen by 2.7 years in the last 15 years. While many people think it's good to work between two births, it's not the case for everyone. Depending on the family situation and the work situation, the requirement for a new ignition period is difficult to meet for part. A system that gives the right to parental leave even if you have not lit up new dishes will improve the economy for young children’s parents and probably lead to more births. In the 2006 budget setting, a comprehensive committee stated the following: ‘The Committee points out that today women must enter paid employment for at least 6 months after a maternity leave in order to earn new rights to maternity leave with pay. The Committee has noted that in 2006 the Ministry will assess the legislation for the generation of birth funds with a view to assessing the rights of parents who have children with a short period of time. The Committee is satisfied with this and considers that an amendment to the legislation may help to counteract the clamping of time.’» I'm glad that a joint committee supported this work, and I'm excited about what the council will do to follow up the Storting signal. The debate on parental death legislation has often become a debate on equality. The concept of equality is about gender equality: equal value, equal opportunities and equal rights. Equality is also about freedom, freedom to choose the best option for the individual: docks or cars, professional activity or home work with care of children. The right to decide about own lives is the essence of the equality debate. Equality between women and men is the same as democracy and equivalency. The fight for equality must be pursued both in the public space and in the individual home. Only when both battles are won is equivalency a reality. Politicians’ task is to ensure equal opportunities for both women and men, and to make laws that penalise violations of the equality law. In reality, the equality struggle can't be just women's struggle for equivalency. The struggle of the fathers for more time with children must also be covered by the encroachment. As politicians, how can we ensure equal opportunities for women and men? First of all, we want to secure the family financially. Although the primary objective of a good family economy is to secure children and prevent poverty, it also has a clear gender perspective. Most of the transfers to families with children benefit women. We have a fixed monthly child benefit for all children, who are paid to mother. We have tax arrangements that benefit the families of children. In addition, we have cash support for parents who do not use full nursery until the child reaches the age of 3. Kindergartens are the pillars themselves if we're going to talk about real choices. In Norway, the State pays 80 pst. of the operation of the nursery. We hope to be able to offer a nursery place to anyone who wants it, in a short time. Secondly, we are making it possible for women to participate in working life on the lines of men. We have job protection and a ban on discrimination. Discrimination against women in the context of pregnancy and childbirth is not allowed or mother and father benefit from rights and leave schemes. Parents who take care leave are entitled to receive the same job when they return to work. Thirdly, women and men should be able to combine family and paid work. I am concerned that women and men should share family responsibilities and rights, in the same way that both women and men participate in politics and working life. That's why we have a rule that five weeks of paid leave is reserved for father. This spring quota was introduced in 1993, and today it is over 80 pst. by the fathers using these weeks. From 1 July this year, the spring quota will be extended to six weeks. Still more fathers well to be home any longer. That's very good. Parents also have the right to stay home when their children are ill, and the right to work part-time is developed. But it is important that part-time work is voluntary. We know that especially many women work involuntary part-time. For this reason, the paragraph of the new Labour Environment Act on the right of priority to employment is important. In addition, freedom of choice is an important principle. Infant parents should be able to choose the type of care they think is best for the child: kindergarten or cash support, or a combination. Then it is important not to weaken the corks of cash or babysitting, as this reduces the freedom of choice at the same time. I believe we can agree that an objective of gender equality and family policy is that both women and men should be able to combine work and care for children. This strategy is based on good family policy schemes with high wage compensation and a high level of social security. We've been pretty close to this. We have a relatively high fertility rate: 1.84 children per day. women are among the highest in Europe. We see that the majority of mothers continue in paid work after they have had children. 74 pst. by mothers of children under three years of age and 83 pst. by mothers of children between three and six years of age are economically active. Nevertheless, we know that many small children’s families are struggling financially. Norway is implementing a major pension reform. Of course, the system should still be gender neutral. In order to compensate for the fact that women who are mothers — and men who are fathers — can be completely or partly out of work for periods, we have improved the schemes that provide parental pension incentives when they care for own children in the home. Similarly, the Christian People's Party believes that the system of parental killers must be less rigid. The fact that there is a short time between births means that a woman is already pregnant or becomes pregnant when she goes to work again. At the same time, children are a one-year-old, with the challenges it poses. Parents have the primary responsibility for raising children, and it is important that society makes the best possible possible for them to be able to carry out that responsibility in a good way. What it means, varies from family to family. Families are different and have different needs. In order to ensure the best possible growth conditions for children, a flexible family policy is important. What would the State Council do to facilitate the timing of parents who have short-term children?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e350	Parents who have children with a short interval of time are in a life - style that demands a lot of time. Comprehensive care tasks shall be combined with work. As the representative, Mr Grimstad, points out, it is important that public support schemes and working life facilitate this. The right to paid leave is the main scheme developed to make this combination possible. As pointed out by the interpellant, a review of the legislation on the generation of birth funds has been announced with a view to assessing the rights of parents who have short-term children. I'll already notify you that I see some negative aspects of such a change. Nevertheless, I think it is positive that we now have the opportunity to have a debate that can shed light on several aspects of this topic, as the interpellant also addressed in its article. I expect the ministry to have completed its review in the current year, and the debate here today will be fruitful in relation to such a review. The representative, Molvær Grimstad, focuses on women's challenges. However, I would like to stress that parents are together on the common challenges. For women's participation and the birth rate, but not least for the sake of children, the participation of fathers is central. Children need close contact with both parents. In addition, the participation of fathers in care is a prerequisite for increased professional activity among women. Studies carried out in European countries show that there is a link between high professional activity among women, high birth rates and good care solutions. One of the most important challenges in today’s family and gender policies is therefore to work for an equal parenthood. More and more fathers are taking increased responsibilities for their children today, such as: is illustrated by the use of the spring quota by fathers, which the representative was also involved in his statement. However, mothers take the longest leave, and it is they who work the most part-time as their children grow up. Fathers work as much as before. Relatively few fathers take more maternity leave than the birth rate. There is therefore a need to support a development in which the health potential of a father is better exploited. Equal parenthood should be marked by the adaptation of men to work. The government's aim is to increase fathers' withdrawal of birth money. Having leave of employment to care for children provides a special opportunity to establish a good relationship with the child. When mother and father share the leave, a practice of parental care is established, which will reflect when children grow up. For parents with several young children, it will be particularly important for parents to share care tasks. This is not least important to remedy what parents experience as a time lag. The assessment of the rights of parents who have short-term children must be carried out in the light of this. Under today's rules, the right to birth benefit is subject to professional activity for at least six of the 10 months preceding the social benefit period. Parents who have more children, therefore, usually have to go to work after an end-of-birth period in order to earn the right to a birth grant for the next child. One possible way to strengthen the rights of parents who have children with a short interval of time is to ease this achievement requirement, for example: such that the entitlement to one child’s birth grant also applies to the next child if the age difference between the children is sufficiently small. The Swedish «quickness premium» gives parents the right to take the benefit base from the first child to the next child if the age difference is less than two and a half years. The cost of a so-called sibling bonus for children up to two and a half years of age difference is estimated at 200 million. kr in annual additional expenditure on public security. I see several disadvantages in such a scheme. It will counter the goal of fathers taking out a larger part of the maternity leave. A sibling's bonus is tailor-made for mothers who take out most of the social benefits, and who continue on unpaid leave until the next childbirth. A failure to earn full wages during the leave of the next child will affect more women in the direction of working less between two births. When mother decides to stay at home for a long period of time, this will limit the father's ability to take out a paid leave. It is therefore likely that a sibling bonus will reinforce today's traditional gender role pattern, where mother takes the longest leave and father works as much as before he had a child. I do not want to strengthen the rights of parents who have children close, at the expense of central equality. There is also a concern about women's participation in employment. A sibling bonus allows women to be away from work continuously for several years in relation to childbirth. It is unlucky in relation to the needs of society for labour. Long-term interruptions will be a burden on future careers, especially for women with an unstable pre-employment relationship. I am also concerned that this may have a negative impact on the attitude of the labour market towards female workers. The rights of parents who have children with a short period of time must also be considered in relation to the rights of other parents who fall outside the maternity benefit scheme because of a lack of earnings. The six-month vesting period condition is absolute and the lack of professional activity for only a few days may result in the loss of rights. This applies irrespective of the reason for the lack of professional activity and regardless of whether the beneficiary has been active before or will be in the future. Women who have not earned the right to a birth grant are today entitled to a one-off benefit of approx. NOK 33 000. Today's rules make big differences between parents who have, and parents who have not earned the right. If one vesting period is to trigger entitlement to several periods of benefit, this difference will be even greater. Strengthening the rights of parents who have children is likely to have to be assessed in relation to other changes we wish to implement in the maternity benefit scheme. For me, it is important that we implement reforms that promote equality between parents in the distribution of care and work, and that will also have a positive effect on the birth rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e373	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I interpret her so that when it applies to the matter itself in relation to what it is in Sweden, she is not very positive about having a sibling's bonus in Norway, but a driving and handling it out. When it comes to what the Council of State said about equality of parenting and about strengthening equality between women and men, I am completely in agreement with it, but that does not mean that when a worker is working for equality, and when one is going to work for fathers to take an active part in caring for young children, one must have a policy that does not suggest that people can choose a little different. For those who have children late, want to have children close and want to stay home for a short or longer period, the sibling bonus will be a scheme for those who want to benefit from it, as it is in Sweden. That doesn't mean that if one introduces that system in Norway, everyone is going to lay down their lives after her, but it gives a possibility. Therefore, I had hoped that the Council of State would be more positive in relation to that. Then there could be less stress for some young children’s parents, who are very upset that they have to make up for new dishes before they have the next child – perhaps waiting to have children number two longer than they really want, because they are going to rework new dishes. So in relation to the time bracket that young children's parents have, and the stress in everyday life, this could make the day a little easier for some people. When it comes to what the Council of State had to say about the one-time benefit for those who are not active, it is clear that he is low. He has increased, but it is also desired that he would have grown significantly higher than he is today, because, as the Council of State said, it is absolutely that you must have lit up six months – you must have been in work for six months – in order to be entitled to paid maternity leave. Has the government seen anything about the experience they have in Sweden? The system of sibling bonuses when they have children very close is a system that one has introduced in Sweden, and with which I have understood very many are well pleased. Although the Council of State is busy with women being the most effective in their professional life, it is a matter of entrusting some of this responsibility to parents who are close to the problems they experience in their everyday lives and listening to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e384	I want to start by saying that it is important how we put up our welfare systems, because a single case can have major consequences for a society in the long term in relation to other policy-pronounced goals we have. Just in the context of family policy, we know that what we are talking about can have major consequences. As I was in my post, I think it's incredibly important that we in the family policy of the years to come have a focus on a parenting where both parties are going to participate in an equivalent way. I mean, we have to focus on giving Dad more space in children's lives. That is why I also feel that there has been an explicit political objective that the whole of Storting has agreed that an extension of the leave scheme should be reserved to father. There is no doubt that this proposal will also have large expenditure pages. As I pointed out in my article, there will also be a bit of a fundamental debate in the light of the proposal put forward by the Christian People's Party, and that is: what about those who do not have these rights today, who may need a week or two weeks to get their leave rights respected? It would be particularly unfair if this were only to be reserved for one group. I would like to say that we are taking a serious and proper review in the department. I think it was right in this debate to make the arguments that I have against the scheme visible, as I feel at least the discussion is today. But I can promise the interpellant and the Storting that we'll go very seriously and carefully into this, and if I'm convinced that it'll be right to change the position, I'll do it. But per year. Today, we are also in a situation in Norway where we need more labour. This is not about women not being allowed to participate in children's lives. I believe that the Labour Party has just had a policy that has brought about reforms that have made it possible to come to the top of the world in order to be able to combine high levels of professional participation with the birth of children. I will not now go into the cash support debate – I could have been tempted to do so. But it must be clear that the arrangements we set up can have major consequences in many areas beyond what might have been the intention initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e397	Today's parental leave scheme is a very good one, and from an international perspective, there are very many women and men – not least in Europe, but also in other parts of the world – who envy young children's parents in Norway the good leave system that we have. There is no doubt that we have a unique opportunity in this country to combine it to have children and to be active. What we also see is that the Nordic countries, which have these good leave arrangements where there are opportunities to take one year leave in connection with birth, are the countries with the highest professional participation among women and who are able to combine it with a high number of childbirth. It is really quite unique that we are able to achieve a combination of such high levels of professional participation among women and still at the top of Europe in terms of the number of childbirth. Actually, it should be the opposite. We have good arrangements, not least in relation to maternity leave, which makes it possible to combine work and family. But kindergarten is also an important measure in this way. At the same time, I agree with the interpellant that there are several things in our maternity leave system that we need to look at and that should be improved. There are weaknesses in the system – we still have a way to go. Among other things, we have ambitions to extend the plan further and that fathers will have a greater share of the leave period. But we also see in our arrangement that fathers today are discriminated against in the sense that they do not have their own earned rights. We know that our leave system is very bad for a seafaring trader, because you do not have your own rights to parental leave. It may also be that women with tight childbirth should be given better rights than they have today. But the last thing I'm actually a little bit in doubt about, and there I agree with the Council of State. Because if you look at today's system, you're going to have to work six months in order to earn a right to a birth grant, or a parental pension, which we've now changed its name to. So let's do 80 pst. wages and salaries, if the mother takes out the entire leave of absence, excluding the family allowance, she will be able to be at home with the child until she is ten months old and then go back to work. In that case, it means that you can't have tighter childbirth than that there must be 16 months between each child. That is, of course, a relatively dense sibling coal, as well. I'm skeptical about changing the practices we have today, and for several reasons. Firstly, our maternity leave scheme is a social security right and, like all other social security rights, it should be based on the line of work, that you should have earned rights. Our ambition has just been to facilitate the possibility of combining work and care for the children. Helping to ensure better rights for women in the workplace is also important. In addition, I do not think we should motivate women to have closer childbirths than 14 to 16 months between each child, from a health perspective. And then I think you don't have to add up to a system that helps women get a longer absence from work than they already have today. Fourthly, I believe that such a scheme will counter the goal of fathers taking out a larger part of the birth grant period. A so-called sibling's bonus, which one has in Sweden, is tailor-made for mothers who take out most of the social benefits and who continue on unpaid leave until the next childbirth. In other words, a lack of ability to earn a salary on leave for the next child will affect more women in terms of working less between two births. The representative of Molvær Grimstad talked about the time clamp. I think we have a slightly different opinion. For me, the timing is about the day-to-day meeting of young children’s parents after both of them have left for work again and will provide children in kindergarten. The key to solving the time clip is just to let go of the fathers more, and if you're going to do it, you have to make sure that fathers take a larger part of the leave in connection with birth. It's only on that basis that fathers take greater responsibility for the children, too. That way, we can get out of the time bracket. That's why, as the Council of State, I'm very sceptical that we're going to add up to a sibling bonus scheme, because I think it'll help fathers get less access to being at home with their children than with the arrangements we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e418	It was very reassuring, I think, to hear the Council of State talk about equal parenthood and that father should be involved more. It is this Advancement Party that has stressed once and for all that parents have to be equalised. The Christian People's Party is talking about and wants a sibling's bonus. It can – we heard the Council of State say – be relatively expensive. It is also becoming expensive socio-economic, and for employers it is almost impossible to get an overview. The representative of Molvær Grimstad also talked about the time clamp. I have to say that I'm of the same opinion as the representative Gjul, because the timing clamp is actually a hesitant everyday life, and you don't get in a bad time even if you have a child with 16 months apart. There I can talk from experience. The Norwegian maternity leave scheme is actually one of the best in the world. People come from both China, Germany and everywhere to learn more about our system and how it works. Incentives women to give birth to more children, so I don't think we should touch it as it is now. Young children’s parents receive tremendous support in Norway in relation to other countries, including the United Kingdom. birth grant, cheap kindergartens, child welfare, etc. This issue would not have been particularly relevant if we had received a majority in favour of our proposal on a matter to be dealt with later today, in Odelstinget, which is about father's quota. We in the Progress Party want exactly what everyone is talking about, an equal parenting. I will also point a warning index finger, to put it this way, to the Christian People's Party whenever they want, for example. that mother stay at home for a longer period, for women are already the major losers in pension schemes, and with the long period of leave they also do not have the possibility to earn pension entitlements. You can also at the pace that's out of work today, you can actually risk being acquitted. The Christian People's Party flirts with the young children's parents. Now it's quite striking that it's not more than eight months since they left the government, and they didn't work to get neither sibling's bonus nor other things to strengthen the woman's right, during that government period, so it becomes a little paradoxical to me that they're now stressing with this. But it is up to the Christian People's Party to be involved and to contribute to supporting the proposal that we are going to promote later today, which is about to change the law and regulation to equalize both parents in the context of maternity leave. Then I think that the problem that they have to work for six months between maternity leave could have been avoided, precisely by Dad becoming more active in relation to being at home. We actually believe in the parents and their ability to assess what's best for themselves. So I think it's reassuring that the Council of State doesn't think this is a particularly good alternative, and I'm very happy that we're now discussing equal parenthood.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e433	A lot has been said in this case, and I see that we have an interesting case during the delay, where equality and parental freedom of choice become the topic. In that perspective, it might have been a bit surprising to hear the contributions of the Progress Party here in the Chamber, as far as the Progress Party tends to stand on the foot of freedom of choice, while the representative Woldseth here went very far in supporting the Council of State, which I think had a very clear profile in setting the gender equality issues very high in this context. From the Right, we are positive to the approach angle that the Christian People's Party has taken, without us going into exactly what this weighting is going to be like, and what this regulation is going to look like. Because it's true, as the Council of State says, here's a lot of implications that you can't deal with that right over the table in an interpellation debate. But as we see it, it's important to give the families of children room – room to plan their own everyday life, room to plan a little over time. Today's legislation appears in many ways to be somewhat arbitrary. I am among those who believe that having children is also something that should be based on the participation of nature and the Lord of Spring. Although the vast majority of parents today do their best to govern themselves, we should have a code that does not allow children to come without necessarily planning to do so, to be the subject of arbitrary treatment in relation to what benefits they actually receive. I think that today's legislation does, and in particular this becomes clear at a time when the age of first-time births is increasing, and where having children has become quite common. It is clear that the amendment of the legislation towards Sweden would entail some costs. But I can't see that the objections raised about the relationship with business are particularly important. I don't know how positive it is to have workers in the six-seven-eight-nine months before they go into new leave. I do not think there is necessarily any benefit either for the employer or for the employee. I do not think that is the answer to how we are going to meet the shortage of labour in our country. If we're going to do it, we're going to have to get started on others and take stronger action. The right is in favour of a change in the rules that will move towards the Swedish system. We are following very closely the intentions expressed by the interpellant in this discussion. We believe it would be wrong if equality considerations such as these were to stand in the way of legislation that would create freedom and planning opportunities for families. Equality is important, and it is important that fathers participate, but it must be weighed against the self-determination that families must have. We await with excitement that the matter will come, and believe that it may be an interesting debate. And we hope that the ministry comes up with arrangements where both of these sets are well cared for for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e446	The interpellation of the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad addresses a current theme that the undersigned has been concerned about and addressed in various contexts. It's of course because I have a profession as a midwife, so I know well how these arrangements work for most people. It is not always possible to plan a pregnancy, and for those who become pregnant and are to be born before a person has earned new rights or rights in first pregnancy, that could be an economic crisis for the family. So this doesn't just apply to multiple births, it also applies to first births. I agree with the Council of State that it is unfair to address only the situation of those who are born more than once. It is not a good start for the family to struggle with poor finances when you have children. In Sweden, there is now a system that grants the right to parental leave without the need to earn new rights when there is a short period of time between births. I think it's important to look at the experiences you have from Sweden. The vast majority of Norwegian women want to combine work and care for children, and it is important that a family and gender policy facilitates this. We have good leave arrangements in Norway and a well-organised family and gender policy that makes the birth rate in Norway very high. Children are our most important resource for the future. We are a small country with few inhabitants, and we need children. We need a lot of kids. Italy is a good example of failed family and gender policies. The birth rate is very low, and women refuse to give birth because it is not organized for it. They have short maternity leave, and it is not organised to combine work with care for children. That interpellant does not address the interpellant is an organised policy for both mother and father so that both can combine work and care for children. Good leave arrangements are important to ensure good contact between children and parents in their first year of life. For the sake of father’s contact with the child, the extension of the leave should be reserved to the father – the later we will be dealing with the extension of the father’s quota by one week. In the political platform of Soria Moria, the government negotiated – in addition to an extension of the father's quota – that we should give father the right to earn independent leave rights. Each parent shall be granted parental leave on the basis of his own generation. If Father had had this right, the problem that May-Helen Molvær Grimstad brought up in his interpellation had not been an economic problem, because Father had been entitled to leave of pay. The first thing we have to do is give father the right to earn independent leave rights next to an extension of the father's quota. This means that SV now is the most important thing for the family and for equality. We have to give both parents the opportunity to provide care and to be economically active. That's why we want to give priority to dad's rights to self-earning in front of what the interpellant takes up in its interpellation. For some women it may also be negative for a career to be away from work for a long time if you have tight pregnancies. It is therefore important to facilitate Father’s participation with his own earnings. This is important for the family and for the child, but it is also important that employers make greater efforts to enable both women and men to combine work and care for children. In terms of time bracket – there are several others who have been involved in this: it is clear that if Norwegian families are going to get out of time bracket, we can no longer have it so that men with children work more overtime than men without children. We actually have to facilitate that both of them take their share of the job at home. In the end, when I gave birth to my first child – it’s bad to go back to it, but just to see the development we’ve had in Norway, and how good it really has been – we had twelve weeks’ leave of pay, and we breast-feed one year at that time too. I don't remember that time clamp very well, but we also had men who had to take their part in the job at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e472	Let me begin by commending the representative May Hansen for a very balanced and well-balanced statement on the matter. I can put myself behind a lot of what she took up. I am pleased that the Council of State welcomes the debate. This means that even if the Council of State today expresses legitimate skepticism for a proposal that has not been spent a long time discussing, it wants to debate it and is busy getting all the things highlighted. And that's important. An important part of this work, as many people have pointed out here, must be to look at what the so-called "society bonus" has resulted in in Sweden and what experience they have. Because it may not necessarily be that a so-called sibling bonus conflicts with equality. Some women want fewer interruptions in their professional life. Having children at longer intervals means that a longer period of women’s collective working life is eroded by births. Some women want to have more children, but over a shorter period of time. In addition – as many people have pointed out here – there will be women who will be affected at birth if they have not had time to lighten dishes. Let me underline what the Council of State says about the importance of both father and mother participating in care. A father's self-right of discovery will be an important step to ensure that several fathers are active for the first years of the child's life. We need to have a goal that the welfare arrangements we design help to ensure that father gets more involved in the lives of children. If the experience from Sweden with the so-called "worker's bonus" suggests otherwise, we have to think very carefully before going into such an action. Of course, the introduction of any such measure must be balanced against other measures in the same field, such as: the right of self-determination for father, the promotion of farce leave, measures to improve self-employed workers and other important measures highlighted by the Government in the Government’s Government Declaration on this policy area. It's too early to see all the consequences of the proposal that the Christian People's Party has put forward, and it's not possible to decide on it here and now. But the debate on it will help to shed light on several aspects of the matter, and it will provide the Government with important input into the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e489	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for the debate. The Christian People's Party is for freedom of choice and for equality. The Christian People's Party has been active in strengthening equality. In the case of the spring quota, which will be attached later today, it is actually a proposal from the Bondevik II government to extend the feather quota by ear-taged father. Unlike the Progress Party, we will use mild coercion against father to strengthen equality, because one sees that by having some instruments that are ear-marked father, father becomes more involved in the care of children from a very small age, and that is a good investment for both the family as a whole and not least for the children. When it comes to this proposal for a Syskenbonus, it's not that after we've left the government, we've all of a sudden drawn it into an interpellation. This is a matter that we worked on when we were in government, and a unanimous committee on the Stortinget ended up in the previous period to a note where one said it was positive that the department looked at this. And once we've left the government, it's interesting to find out how the new government follows up the work that was going on. That's why I thought it was important to get this thing aired today, to find out how the government would follow it up. I understand that there's a different point of view here, but the government will put it forward and figure it out in a proper way. That being said, although one may have different answers to different problems, it is important for the Christian People's Party that one gives a certain room for action for parents to choose themselves. When it comes to those who have not lit up paid maternity leave, the Christian People's Party has a wish to increase the one-time benefit to 2 G. But when it comes to the measures that one has, we're not going to turn it around and say we're not going to have a feather quota that's ear-marked father. No, we're going to have an active policy in relation to equality and in relation to the family. But that's the way some people have mentioned it here, that it's when you go to work again, that you experience the clip of time. Then there are some who may not be able to get back to work until they are pregnant again, or who may feel stressed that they have to come to work before they have a child no. 2nd@item: inlistbox This may be an offer that some people want to make use of, so that the possibility is there if you want to choose something different for a while. There is no goal for the Christian People's Party that this should be a system most likely to use, but we want to give an freedom of choice, so that parents themselves can decide how they want it. I think it might be a good arrangement – with a little less stress and a little more choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e501	I want to thank the Stortinget for the debate, and I think the debate and the speeches were pointed out. With the signals we have received, the Ministry has a good basis for the review we are about to carry out. I want to say that the red-green government is also concerned with both equality and freedom of choice, but we have probably a slightly different approach to what will be the different choices. But it's important that there's flexibility at the bottom of the schemes we're putting up with. Therefore, I believe that some of the answers to the challenges we face are – as the representative Gunn Karin Gjul had in his speech – that it is important that we have leave arrangements that are also perceived as flexible, which allow the individual family to make their choices together with the employer. Then I actually want to take the Advance Party a little in defense, because unlike the Right, I think the post of the representative Woldseth here today was very realistic in relation to the challenges we face. It is clear that it is very easy to have a general objective that is called freedom of choice in any case, but I believe that the very contribution we heard from the Progress Party showed very well the challenges we have in very many other areas for which such a proposal will have consequences. I just want to end with the review coming. The majority shall be given the opportunity to take this debate and take its decisions. So it's also that this has a cost side. When we participate in the public debate, I think almost all of the parties may eventually be earned that we have a certain rarity in what we promise in this field. Now we know that we have debates and promises of a self-employment right for business. We have an extension of the father's quota. Is it realistic – and within what time period should we have the opportunity – to add hundreds of millions more to such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e514	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e532	It could almost have been tempting to continue in the last debate for a little while, but I will refrain, for this is an important topic that needs the time set aside here today. As the President said, the main focus of justice policy is often on the perpetrator, and that is not unnatural. Society must react when crime is committed and sometimes prison is a necessary form of reaction. But when Mom or Dad has to go to prison, it's not just the perpetrator we're talking about. Many of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons have children, and the life situation of these children is, of course, significantly affected when one of them is most happy with disappearing from their daily lives. The children know what's going on, they can get depressed, have psychosocial problems, and in some cases feel guilt and shame. Unfortunately, bullying is also a known problem for many of these children. Therefore, it is necessary for society to focus on these children, so that we, together with their closest friends, can provide them with the best possible foundation for life. Prisoners also have parents, spouses or roommates, siblings and friends. These too are affected by a judgment on long-term reconciliation. The despair that many parents experience when their own child has to zone in prison is a great emotional feeling. Here, too, there may be a feeling that you have failed as a parent, something that many are struggling with. The reconciliation queue is long. One of the most important tasks of the Minister of Justice is to remove this queue and reduce the waiting time from judgment to acquittal. Crime prevention has therefore for a long time focused on the number of settlement days and effective use of capacity. It's been necessary. But success in criminal matters cannot be measured alone in terms of the number of days spent in settlement and in terms of the percentage of capacity spent. The content of compensation and the ability to take into account the relatives of the prisoners also matter whether we can be satisfied with our criminal care. I hope the government will agree with that. In prisons, many firemen work who have a genuine commitment to the situation of the prisoners. They put down a considerable effort to motivate and facilitate prisoners to live a crime-free life after an end to acquittal. Many of the employees are also very aware that, in many cases, contact between the prisoner and his/her dependants is essential for achieving the objective of rehabilitation. This was recorded by the previous government and the previous Minister of Justice. I would like to mention the fact that visiting apartments have been built both in Bredtveit and in Leira prison as a consequence of the 2005 state budget. But we can't say we're satisfied with this. There is a need to build more such apartments in other prisons, and I hope that the current government will help to do so. Nevertheless, despite good staff in prisons, we must say that the family network in general is too weak in Norwegian prisons today. Usually, one hour of association is offered per day. week. This is not sufficient to maintain contact with children, cohabitants or spouses and close relatives. Often the prisoner is in a prison far away from where the relatives live. It may also make regular visits difficult. Nor does it matter how prisons facilitate visits. The visiting room should be suitable for such association. The Fangers Family Association can display images of small and quite impenetrable visiting rooms, where a small box of toys is stowed away under a sink next to the used sheets curve. We don't want to have it like that. We don't want to make the situation more difficult for prisoners' children than it already is. That's why I'm going to challenge the government to clarify to the police the expectations of the prison's visitors. If financial resources are needed to upgrade these rooms to suitable arenas for children, the Council of State may expect support from the Christian People's Party to prioritize this. Health services have procedures for following up the relatives. Such procedures are not available in criminal justice. It's a cross of thought. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe it is necessary that criminal services develop procedures for facilitating contact between the prisoner and his children. Of course, such contact shall only be made on a voluntary basis and shall always be made on the premises of the children. However, when contact is desirable, prisons must have a duty to facilitate this in good forms. People need information about what they can expect when they are happy about it. An offer of repatriation will, for example: could give children a greater level of tranquillity because their father or mother is doing well, even if he or she is in prison. The relatives also need an arena to ask the many questions that the family in general and the children in particular have about the new situation. Hassel prison in Buskerud is the only prison in Norway that has employed a network coordinator of its own. The network coordinator stimulates and facilitates contact with family and other relatives who have a positive impact on the prisoner and who may assist in release. We know that a good network is the best guarantee against a further criminal career after release. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we believe that more prisons should have such a coordinator. Let's not forget civil society. We're not going to put everything in state or municipality. We have non-governmental organisations. We have the Fangers Family Association, which makes a great contribution to help, and which I know from my own experience is doing a great deal in this way. We have the Red Cross, and we have the Church's City Mission. These three people want to build a center for prisoners' children in the East. The Centre shall provide various assistance measures, such as: homework, activities and relief, not least for those of the parents who have sole responsibility when the other is in prison. The Christian People's Party wholeheartedly supports such a project. I have been informed that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality have received such an application. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice has rejected the application, but we can hear today if the Council of State has other money than that they have in the Ministry of Justice, so that perhaps this good measure can be realised. So I'll go over to another part of what's taken up in the interpellation. This applies to social security legislation. It needs to be amended in order to ensure that the single-parent, because the second zone provides a prison sentence, is also considered to be a single-parent in the sense of the law. Many people experience significant financial problems when a family adult has to pay a penalty. It has never been intended that the perpetrator's family be punished for the infidelity. Therefore, society should in this way treat them in the same way as other single parents. The Christian People's Party supports proposals to this effect in the context of the revised national budget, and hopes that the Government will be able to follow this up in the 2007 budget. When persons with foreign citizenship commit serious crime, they may also be expelled from Norway in addition to the prison sentence. Several of these have children living in this country. Data from 2001 show that more than 40 children were expelled from their father due to criminal offences that year. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the Fangers Family Association believes that the requirement of high emphasis on the child’s best interests is not respected by the foreign authorities in these expulsion cases. In other words, the authorities never obtain opinions from children, but place almost only the emphasis on the frequency and extent of association that has taken place. The Children’s Act sets a seven-year age limit for children who have the right to comment in relation to residence in the event of a broken life of their parents. The corresponding age limit is laid down in the Adoption Act and the Child Protection Act. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that, in line with the rules of the Children's Convention, the foreign authorities must also ask children over seven years of age if they have views on matters where it is relevant to expel one of the parents. The current practice is at 12 years of age. We also believe that the Foreign Affairs Department should decide on expulsion cases in full when expulsion could lead to the division of the family. I have now presented some views on the part of the Christian People's Party. I am excited about how the Minister for Children, who is responsible for children across the sector, views these assessments, and what she generally believes can be done to strengthen the conditions for children – and, to some extent, for other relatives – of those in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e572	Let me begin by thanking the representative Syversen for addressing a topic that concerns a very vulnerable and vulnerable group of children and young people, as well as their family and community. That's right, as the interpellant says, it's difficult for children and families when mom or dad has to go to jail. Prisoners face many and complex challenges in a number of areas. I therefore fully agree that there is particular reason to focus on the situation of prisoners' relatives, and especially prisoners' children. Being admitted to prison does not mean that you stop being a parent or stop being happy with your children or your partner. Many in prison are also required to be parents and partners after release. Therefore, it is important that, where desirable, relations be maintained in the best possible way, including in the context of reconciliation. Prisoners in all closed prisons generally have the opportunity to visit their children in visiting rooms. As we know, more than half of Norwegian prisoners have children, and a majority of them have weekly or more frequent contact with their children. We have this information from a life-cycle survey of prisoners carried out by the research foundation Fafo in 2004. This is important information, because it means that prisons are working a long way on the way to facilitating contact between parents and children during visits and by telephone. I would like to say that there must be no doubt that the government is prepared to look at the possibilities we have to improve the contact, and I would like to take with me the clear input that the representative made in his post. Criminal services shall facilitate visits and meet children’s needs when visiting prisons. It is important that the visit is experienced as good and good for the children. In recent years, the Ministry of Justice has increased its efforts against the children of prisoners by establishing visiting apartments, which the representative also had to attend, at Bredtveit incarceration and Trondheim in prison. These two prisons offer an extended visit offer for children who have their mother or father in prison. A prerequisite for visiting children in a visiting apartment is that the visit is supervised and the prisoners are positively set to receive parental guidance. As mentioned above, the starting point is the child’s need for contact and, therefore, a strong focus is placed on good interaction, including: through the parental guidance. The parental guidance shall help to strengthen care and growth for children and young people. Parental guidance work was undertaken to prevent psychosocial problems and reduce interactions between parents and children. The overall objective of the guide is to improve contact and communication between parents and children, between professionals and parents and between professionals and children. The Ministry of Justice has developed specific rules for visits to these apartments. The general rule is that overnight stays in the apartments can be carried out with one visit one day per day. months. In exceptional cases, the number of visits and durations may be extended. Some other prisons also want to use visiting apartments for overnight stays of prisoners, and this scheme will be implemented in several prisons. It is important that prison inmates be able to live up to their responsibilities as parents and to take good care of their children after they have been released. We know that many prisoners have been in contact with child protection or other relief services because they do not have the power, or they struggle with, their task as parents. There is therefore a clear need to strengthen the role of prisoners as parents, as the interpellant addresses. For this reason, both parental guidance groups and father groups have been started in a number of prisons during the last year and this year. In 2005, a parental guidance model was developed for imprisoned parents. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has provided training in parental guidance for staff in criminal care, and this is an important field of action to be implemented in most prisons in the future. So far, parental guidance has been tested in four–five prisons, and after we have been informed, the members of the criminal service have given positive feedback and are very satisfied with the arrangements. The opinion is that parental guidance should be tested in several prisons in the autumn of 2006. The aim of guidance and parental groups is to strengthen parental skills and to focus on the needs of children when parents execute a prison sentence. Tabu, shame, sleep, sorrow and anger are part of the everyday life of many children of prisoners. It may be difficult to talk about and relate to the fact that your father or mother, someone you're happy with, is in prison. I don't think it's so unusual for relatives to meet prejudices either. This may be difficult to meet alone in kindergarten, in school, in leisure time or in relief services, and the need for good support players is great. That's why I think it's important that we dare think even more untraditionally, perhaps involving more non-governmental organisations in this work. I also think, as the interpellant was about, that this is probably a topic that we haven't been able to focus enough in recent years. We need to look at, as the interpellant was about, both the economic situation of the person who is left at home with the care of the children, and how we are going to be able to facilitate better care for the children. We know that the Fangers Family Association has for a number of years assisted relatives and other relevant agencies or services, and it has done a great job. Among other things, it has assisted prisons and made many good impressions on how criminal services can facilitate visits. The association is very active and has initiated studies, projects and information, including: It has published two information papers on children with parents in prison. Luckily, criminal justice has a good and extensive cooperation with the Fangers Family Association. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality also has good and very useful cooperation with the association and has supported in recent years an important measure that I would like to mention here. Children of prisoners are a vulnerable group, also in relation to poverty problems, and the association has received many contacts from relatives as a demand for services to children and young people. We know from previous studies that four out of ten prisoners are below the poverty line, and that prisoners in general have much lower gross income than the population in general. ‘Youth with parents in prison’ is a holiday and leisure activity that received grants in 2005 and 2006 — I know the representative is well aware of it. The action involves activities and is a meeting place for young relatives. Here we cooperate with Oslo Red Cross, who has also established a follow-up service for prisoners' children. In my opinion, this is an important measure aimed at a highly vulnerable group, where prevention and rehabilitation are necessary. The feedback is very good, and we are very happy about that. As I mentioned earlier, it is linked to taboo and shame to having a parent in prison. It can be hard to talk about this with friends and others in the community. That's why I think it's important that we have measures that have a special focus, that take into account the burden of being a child with parents in prison, and that as a society we should perhaps have more public debate on these issues than we have actually had in recent years. I think I'll end up with that. I look forward to the debate. To the extent that there are concrete proposals for action by the Stortinget, both the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Justice will be listening to it, and will include it in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e600	It's not after every post from the Council of State, but I can say that I agree with almost everything she has said, but with this post I think there's a lot of evidence to suggest that there is little disagreement in the Stortinget. We're gonna be happy for that. The question, of course, is to what extent you from the Government's side, and of course from the Storting's side, are able to follow up on a group that doesn't have so many other speakers, and that isn't exactly bothered with headlines around the media that can press for a positive outcome of the things that can mean a lot to this group. I want to put this into practice and hear a little more what the council thinks about three things. Firstly, the social security rules apply. There was a state council saying that she saw that there could be one area. Does this mean that the Government is willing to see if the person who sits at home and is actually a single dependant should also be able to deal with this in social security legislation? Secondly, will the Council of State — she was not aware of this — look at the practice of foreign affairs where there is the expulsion of a dependant, both on the subject of foreign affairs — I understand that it is not the Council of State that is responsible for that part, but she has a coordinating responsibility for children — should be fully mentioned in matters where it is a question of deportation of a dependant, and whether the rules of the Convention on the hearing of children will be followed up by both emphasising it more and looking at the age limits that should be used when children are to be heard? Thirdly, how does the Council of State — which fully agrees that voluntary Norway has an important role to play — view the initiative that the Fangers Family Association, in cooperation with the Church's Bymission and Red Cross, has now launched to create a centre for the children of prisoners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e613	First, I would like to thank the representative for what he said. I have to basically say that it is incredibly good that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party sometimes agree, and in this case we are actually. Then I got three very clear questions and challenges. One is about social security and economics. As I said in my contribution too, I clearly see that we need to see these challenges in the light of the entire debate we have on poverty reduction. So there I can go out and say that the government will go in and look at just this problem in the overall review that we now have. To the second question, which concerned the practice of foreign affairs: I must, of course, refer to my colleague, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, in that field. But I want to say that there is no doubt that this government is taking the Children's Convention seriously. National obligations must be imposed on it by all departments in order to ensure that the work of all departments takes account of the provisions of the Children's Convention. When it comes to the last question, about support for the centre that you want to set up, I have to look at it a little bit more closely. I can't give any answer or spend any money on this right now. But the interaction we've seen from the organisations is fantastic, and I hope we can get to a kind of auxiliaries that will be targeted and good to these children. I do not know enough about the content of that concept today, so I must be allowed to come back to that. But at least on behalf of the Government, I can say that with regard to the offer it is made, it is also important that everyone is able to arrange for that offer to be spread, so that we do not in some way get only one center that can help it. We have to create a system for such a kind of help that captures all of these children, all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e629	The interpellant, Hans Olav Syversen, takes up the situation of a group of children who need our awake eye. When a child or a youth experiences one of the parents going to prison, it is not only the lack of father or mother the child experiences, but also the feeling of guilt and shame, where the experience of being different from others makes the situation even worse. If we're going to do something about the situation of these children, we have to think along several lines. Firstly, as the Council of State said, it is important to have as good a system as possible to ensure that the relationship between parent and child is as good as possible, even while the adult son is in prison. We already have arrangements to facilitate this. The living conditions survey carried out in 2004 by Fafo, which includes the living conditions of prisoners, shows that a majority of prisoners who have children had visits to them weekly or more frequently. When visiting a child’s father or mother in prison, it is important that the framework around the visits becomes as good as they can be. It is not difficult to imagine that for a child it may be difficult and frightening to meet your father or mother in such circumstances as a prison may have. That is why it is a very good measure that has been taken at Bredtveiten in prison and at Trondheim in prison, where visitors can meet their children. And it was positive to hear the Council of State's words that one will seek to obtain such arrangements even at other prisons, so that there may be the usual framework around the contact of these children with the parents who are in prison. The challenge, in addition to extending the scheme, is that these sites are made as pleasant, good and child-friendly as possible. Parental guidance and parental assistance for prisoners are also positive and important, with a view to contributing to caring for and improving the parent’s capacity for good parenting. There is good experience in the testing procedures for this which have been carried out by individual prisons. It is therefore important that these experiences are followed up by the announced extension of the action that will take place in the next two years. It is also important that criminal services continue to have good contact and cooperation with the Fangers Family Association, which has for many years assisted the families and relatives of the prisoners. This association has firsthand knowledge of where the need is greater and where the effort is most important. I also believe that more research is important on the life situation of prisoners and their families, so that targeted action can be put in place for this group. It is also positive that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality are now taking part in a study aimed at gaining just more knowledge in this field. Also in society outside, where children and the other family of the prisoner travel, it is necessary to facilitate the provision of assistance and support. Both the community environment, the school and the labour market must contribute, and there must be different relief measures, such as: in the field of child protection and social services. Many of the families of prisoners with complex problems. Statistics show that many belong to those who are below the poverty line. That is why this government's focus on poverty reduction is becoming very important to this very group of children. We need to ensure that leisure, cultural and other activities are made available to everyone, without personal finances being crucial. In addition to such a general policy, special measures may be necessary, such as: the project ‘Youth with parents in prison’, which is a holiday and leisure activity supported by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in the last two years. It is important to provide many and varied responses to this vulnerable and vulnerable group of children and young people. And I fully agree with the Council of State that we need to think widely and without prejudice about how we should do this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e650	This interpellation goes into a crossroads between the Ministry of Justice and the Justice and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. There was one thing that struck me when I read this interpellation, and it was the film "Kamilla and the Twentieth," a very nice film about children's relationships and friendship to a criminal. The film shows a child's joy and grief over, and care for, the friend it encountered who was a criminal. About 4,000 children experience that their mother or father is in prison in a year. It's a very high number -- a disturbingly high number. There are 4,000 innocent children who experience a loved one going to prison. The prisoner's child is not a uniform group. The circumstances surrounding the prison, the age of the child, the level of development and the relationship with the prison population may vary. In addition, many parents choose not to tell the child that their mother or father is in prison. How many of us don't sometimes have used prison as a terror to our children? Prison appears to be something serious. It's scary, it's degrading, it's terrible for children. So prison is connected to something daunting, and it can be a burden for the child. It's very important what the interpellant takes up here today. The children are innocent victims who are indirectly punished as a result of their mother or father going to prison. Many children feel guilt and shame. It's not easy to tell at school that mom or dad is in prison. Many children today have their life situation turned their heads around because of their parents' breakup. Children then go through crises, and school and health care are there to help if necessary. Some children also go through a blaming process and have a real crisis related to their parents ’ breakup. This is something that children who have their mother or father in prison also experience. Prisoning can mean the loss of an important caregiver, and children can respond with longing, sorrow, rest, crying and anger. Children are equally happy with their mother or father, even though their mother or father is in prison. It is the unconditional love that children give their parents. Prisoners’ children have received too little attention. That is why it is good that we have this debate today. And then the question is, what can we contribute? First of all, I want to pay tribute to the work of the Fangers Family Association. The information material, the information and the knowledge that they have is very important for the support and advice that they give to relatives. Criminal services also have a major role to play in prisons. It's the organization of family rooms. Not all prisons have such facilities in order today. There are small rooms, there is little room for privacy, and it may seem very deterrent to the children when they come to visit their father or their mother. Transparency in the school and kindergarten situation and in health centres is also important. There are people who experience that they are being bullied, and there may be some children who think it's good that there are some teachers at school who know they have mom or dad in prison, so they can be followed up. The child is a victim. But the child is not to be punished. One must take into account the family. Many families feel that it is a financial burden that mother or father has ended up in prison. In addition to all the other loads they wear, they also wear financially. The council today asked for a recording from Stortinget. Then I want to make a concrete contribution. The Progress Party, promoted in the examination of the budget last year, has adopted a proposal to ‘examine and promote any proposed legislative changes to a system in which the person caring for the child while the other parent is in prison is considered to be a sole dependant’. I hope that the Council of State will take this with it, in relation to the budgetary work now in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e678	There is no doubt that the interpellant takes up a very serious, but the more important, theme. The group of children and young people who are at the forefront of this debate is among the most vulnerable, all of whom agree. When a father or a mother has to go to prison because of serious crime, it means that the child loses one of his most important points of view in life. So every year, 4,000 children experience this. Absence is likely to be different, depending on age, but there is no important dimension when the child ‘mist’s’ one of its closest — some for quite many years of growth. In addition, having a mother or father in prison is often associated with guilt and shame and is therefore tried to hide from the outside world, which can make everyday life even more difficult to deal with for many children and young people. If prison is far away, it could also cause considerable difficulties in maintaining contact between the prisoners and their own children. The Convention on the Rights of the Child imposes a clear responsibility for the optimum growth of all children. One does not need to be a psychologist to understand that parents in prison can create a difficult stress situation for children who experience this. The question then is how society can mobilise for the best to remedy the difficult situation. We know enough to say that children of prisoners are a vulnerable group. Although the experience of a crisis is quite certain to vary, there can hardly be any doubt that ‘missing’ a close family member over a long period of time can dramatically interfere with the lives of children and young people. It should therefore be clear that these children were followed particularly closely by the school and health services in order to support and prevent problems. Unfortunately, I suspect that the systematic approach in the follow-up of these children is very varied, and that children and young people are therefore subjected to unnecessary stress. It is obvious that the public has and must take greater responsibility for the closer follow-up of children with parents in prison. The public must also assume greater responsibility for providing good information, adequate information and guidance on rights and opportunities for association. Criminal services also have to do their part to facilitate contact between children and parents in prison in a way that is as gentle as possible for the child. In particular, the meeting with high levels of safety in closed prisons may seem daunting and overwhelming even for adults, not to mention children. If the visit has to be carried out within the establishment, it is particularly important that the child be prepared and followed up afterwards. Fortunately, it is also possible for visits to be carried out in so-called visitor apartments, combined with the production of the prisoner, which contributes to a more normalised contact. The aim must be for all prisons to offer visits within such frameworks. While the public is fulfilling its obligations, fortunately, we have many good helpers in the form of non-governmental organisations, which are doing a great and socially useful job in this field. The Church's Bymission and the Red Cross have been mentioned. Like the interpellant and several others, I would like to highlight in particular the work of the Fang People's Association to facilitate the life situation of those who have one of their closest in prison. The Fangers Family Association has as its most important task to assist and support its relatives. The association conducts guidance and active information work, and in particular, several of them, the association cooperates closely with the prisons to make the group visible to its relatives and proposes measures to strengthen contact between its relatives and prisoners. We should listen carefully to their experiences and experiences, and we should stretch far to meet and meet the wishes and needs expressed here. I am also aware that the Fangers Family Association is carrying out its own project on the children of prisoners. This project is a recognition of the special needs of children and the importance of assessing how best to meet such needs. The association has established groups of children, and it has its own activities for young people who have in common that they have a family member or a friend who is in prison. Here we talk about issues such as prison, emotions and friendship, while at the same time having other positive experiences. However, the problem is that this is an association with no particular activity beyond southern Norway. Many people are therefore not offered this type of activity and forms of association that can be offered in some places in Norway. The public can do a lot, but the contributions of volunteers in this area are enriching. Therefore, it is important that the public continues to support financially and in other ways and facilitate voluntary action, which is represented by the organisations represented by the Fangers Family Association. I am very pleased with the recognition that the Council of State gives here today, for the work they and others do. I hope that in the future we will be able to facilitate this kind of activity even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e699	The interpellant places a very important issue on the agenda. He focuses on the situation of prisoners' children. Children often find it very difficult for a father or a mother to be put in prison. Red Barna has produced a report called "The Hidden Punished". In a year, about 4,000 children experience that their mother or father is in prison. This is often an invisible group of children. Children who have their mother or father in prison often experience this as a crisis. But the prisoner's child is not a uniform group. The circumstances surrounding prison, the age of the child, the level of development and the relationship with the prison population may vary considerably. The experience of the individual child can be very different. Advice and information to the child, caregivers and professionals around the child are important. Lack of knowledge about prisoners’ children in auxiliaries has often made it difficult for relatives to address these issues. This work needs to be strengthened. It was also the Council of State inside. Transparency with the child is important, and not least frequent and regular contact during prison. The prison’s visits are of great importance to the experience of children and adults. Many have found that this varies greatly from prison to prison, and prisons are often poorly organized for children. Prisons may facilitate a visit to children to be carried out in a prudent manner. They have to. In this there are, among other things: visits to children must be carried out in child-friendly visiting rooms or holiday apartments, which have been visited by others. There is still a long way to go to ensure that all prisons have satisfactory visiting conditions for children. This is important to focus on, as many people have done here today. Experience suggests that contact during the reconciliation period of most people is necessary in order to maintain the relationship between the child and the parent who is in prison. Even a short time may be long for a small child, and contact regularly is important. The visit may be an important confirmation for the child that the child has not failed but is still loved by his or her parent. The child will then be able to better understand the situation and get a more realistic picture of how Mom and Dad are doing. Both the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Norwegian Law give the child an independent right of contact with his or her parents if it is best for the child. The law opens up a more frequent visit and extension of visiting time, extended telephone time or allowance for prisoners with children. For children, there is often a great deal of tension and stress associated with prison visits. Therefore, it is particularly important that it is adapted to their needs. The rights of the child should be reflected in the organisation of the offer. Governments are asking for input at the end of their article. I'm very happy about that. I want to face three challenges. The interpellant has been in on two of them, but I want to strengthen them. What I think is quite worrying is that today there is no one responsible for children being heard in these matters, which concerns them to a large extent. It is important that the child’s opinion is taken into account, because that is the best thing for the child. And what the child wants is important to get there. I wonder if the Council of State has any thoughts on how the child's right to be heard can be exercised in these matters. That's right, as the interpellant said, children up to the age of 7 should be heard. They can also be heard when they are even younger if the child is mature enough to do so. Children have great ability to forgive and to forget their own needs, and children with parents in prison often live with great unforeseeableness. Transparency is important, and auxiliaries, schools and kindergartens have the competence to help the child and the family. I believe that a reporting obligation should be considered for the local emergency services, in line with that of the health services, so that these children can be cared for. The third issue has been raised by several people, and that is the problem of poverty. One of the parents who is left at home actually becomes a lone parent, and if you're married, you don't get the same rights economically as lonely dependants. I've talked to several relatives who have children, who have actually gone to the stage of divorce, because you get better financially. I wonder if the Council of State can answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e725	When someone is happy, chooses to do something that is wrong and stupid, it may be difficult to deal with. For children who experience that their parents are put in prison, it is not only that there are people you are happy about, but there are people you experience as a role model who are being punished by the community. That's why it might be even harder to deal with it. The only point that I disagreed with the state council here was that it hasn't been focused on this before. In the last period, I had an interpellation with the former Minister of Justice from the Left about this, and a number of different projects have been started. The former State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice had a visit to the individual prisons to look at all the father projects around. My main input to the Council of State is that it is important to bring about the competence that is in many prisons, for example. in the father group in Kroksrud, which may be the prison most advanced in this field, is being moved on, and that the prison staff who are competent to work on it bring this to other prisons. At Kroksrud there is a father group who has worked for a long time with the role of father, with the ability to have activities with their children, and also with the development of a conscious role for all the dads who sit on Kroksrud and want to play their role as father in a good way. What's still important is to keep up the pressure that's on all the different projects, and not just get the kids into the short conversations in a little hour on the orange sofa inside the little room, but actually to experience something positive with the kids. Much of what the prisons have done that has done in this area is just creating positive experiences with the children, sailing if one of the parents is in prison. It means to lie on your arm in the evening and be able to read a good book or go fishing together. When I had my interpellation here, I read some of the letters I've received from dads who had just had these experiences, to show how touching it is when you can get back in contact with your child, which is something quite different from the small, short visits. Everyone who deals with children knows that one month is a long time in a child's life, and there's an incredible number of discoveries a child makes in one month. Another thing is that a person often spends a long time getting in touch with a child, while adults spend much less time if the relationship is already built up. That is why I believe we need to bet on the organisations that everyone has talked about. We have to bet on the projects that are already there, but the most important thing is to bring competence into all the structures and to pass it on to many of the prisons that don't have a very conscious relationship with this. So I just want to finish by thanking the interpellant for raising a great problem. When I had this interpellation, it was only the Right, Christian People's Party and the SV who had the word. The best thing, I think, is that today, too, the Labour Party and the Advancement Party have come on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e744	All praise to the Seven, who have taken up this important debate! I agree very much with the last speaker here, who said that it is important that all parties participate in such a debate. I also think it is important that there are several committees involved in such a debate. Several of those sentenced to prison are responsible for children. This also causes children to suffer when their mother or father is in prison. In order for this right to be real and not illusory, it must be practical and perhaps economical to facilitate coexistence. It must be done in cooperation between the children, the relatives, the inmates and the criminal services. We know that many old institutions will have problems with facilitating this purely physical, but a lot can be done. I have to say that one of the things that has made an indelible impression on me was the vision of the children's room at Ullersmo. There was a small room with a few players, two or three Lego blocks and a textbook. This is really little inviting for games and conversations. One thing is the smallest children – they always have a reference book, a Lego block or a puzzle – but what about the larger children? Then I thought it was so good to see the new prison on Kongsvinger, where it would create a private outdoor area as well as a private children's room. Not only does this make the community more pleasant, but the community becomes more natural. It is clear that such frames make it easier to talk when you can be out kicking football, climbing a little in the wood or rustling around – as a normal family. And financially, if the children stay far away from where father or mother sons are, it may be difficult to carry out the gathering. Even worse can it be if parents are divorced, for who will then pay for the child to travel to this gathering? Calling every Friday or every other week means that there will be very little contact between parents and children. Children's insertions must definitely have extended ringing time. A little bit of rehabilitation: our political goal is to reduce the rate of relapse. What's the most important thing to do after the final settlement? - Well, it's having a family, a network around it, and getting a job. We, who are here, all have a job to do to make it easier for them to get together between their inserts and their children. In all of this, we should never forget that children are innocent victims. We must never forget that, we must have that with us. That's why we have to focus on our children's and children's dishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e763	It is gratifying that many are taking part in this debate today. There's not only reason to focus on this, but there's reason to do something for these kids. Since I am in the Labour and Social Committee, which is responsible for the poverty theme, it is natural for me to focus on it. As several others have said, and as SV has been involved for several years, not all single dependants have the rights of single dependants. It is these families that de facto are most lonely, because when you have a spouse or partner who is in prison, it is that you do not receive any financial contribution – as most people get divorced or single dependants – or have relief on weekends or evenings. In addition, there are all the other loads that several people have had here. Many of the difficulties that have been raised here today are difficult for politicians to deal with. But what we can do about it is at least the economy of these families. In practice, most of these families differ, giving them the opportunity to receive social benefits as lone parents. There might be some people who choose it for their own reasons, but a lot of people say they do it because they just don't make it economically, because they're really lonely. When we then know how the economy in general is in these families, there's no reason why these families shouldn't be likened to lonely ones. They are, in practice, lonely. That is why it is very gratifying that so many parties now agree with what SV has thought for a long time – that these families should get such a status – and that the Council of State is also as open as she is today, signaling that this is a theme we actually have to address. If we're looking to help some of the poorest families of children, there are these families of children. We know that the consequence of poverty in families with children is that children are excluded from social arenas. We can very easily imagine that for these children it is even more difficult than for other children. They need the generality that it is to be able to participate in any of the things that cost money in today's society. Then it's pretty sad that divorce is the solution to those problems for many of these families. Divorce also leads to greater difficulties in relation to visits to prison for many of these families, many of whom have been involved here. It has consequences for other parts of life, which can then become an extra burden. Some have also argued that keeping together the families who want to stay together is the most important way to succeed in rehabilitation afterwards for the criminal — and not least for the children to get into a normalised situation after the end of prison. There are a lot of good reasons to change the system in this area. It's a paradox that when we have a policy that focuses on helping families stay together, here's a code that actually puts them in such an economic jam that they don't look any other way out of it than to separate. I am glad that there has been such a broad understanding of that problem today. This government has a great ambition and a great responsibility in relation to poverty in Norway. In particular, the Government in its declaration has pointed to poverty among children. That is why I hope that a solution is found on this issue quite quickly. I am absolutely sure that it will also be a solution that will get very broad political impetus. After what I hear from the debate today, there's a completely different understanding of this topic now than it was just a couple of years ago, when there were very few who were concerned about it and it was still a little bit intrigued to understand that these children are actually completely free of blame in the situation they and the family have come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e782	I would also like to say, as the last speaker, that the broad consensus that this debate has shown should also encourage the Government to move forward with the measures that have actually been fully mutually agreed on today. There are representatives from four or more committees who have taken part in this debate. It's not in every interpellation debate that it happens. It says something about the commitment, but it probably also says something about the fact that we're often doing a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit It's also a challenge when we're going to create a whole. The Council of State heads one department, but with a special responsibility for children across all sectors. I hope that her positive approach can help the entire government to look at this together, so that there will not be one Council of State responsibility, because it is actually not – there are several. It is the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion with regard to social security rules, it is the Ministry of State with regard to specific measures aimed at children, and it is, of course, the Ministry of Justice with regard to the follow-up to criminal law. It is probably also the Minister of Labour and Inclusion who is responsible for the possible change of practice in relation to the foreign field in relation to the circumstances mentioned here. The representative Karin Andersen finally said that focusing is one thing, doing something else. The council said she would go into the question related to the application from the Fangers Family Association and the cooperation they have now established with the Church's Bymition and the Red Cross. She wanted to go in and look at the application they have submitted. I really hope that the Council of State – that is my last appeal – will take a positive view of the application, because I think there are few who will have greater competence to be able to contribute positively to individuals – single children – than what these three together will represent through such cooperation. To conclude, I would quote a great poet, Gabriela Mistral, if the Council of State needs inspiration to get started on the work. She says in closing in one of her poems: ‘To the child we can’t say‘Tomorrow’.The child’s name is ‘today’.’ Good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e802	It's a beautiful poem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e805	Yes, President, with those words, the Council of State could be tempted not to say anything more, for this has been an incredibly constructive debate. As the interpellant said, it is rarely there is participation from so many committees, and it also shows that there has been a need to shed light on these issues. In conclusion, I would like to point out that many, among others. Aspacer, he's been thinking about how to actually implement what's under the rights of our law. We have a criminal enforcement law § 3 that says that children's right to get together with their parents should be given particular attention during the implementation of the reaction. The government acknowledges that this has not been particularly emphasised until today, that both police and prison must take Section 3 seriously, and that we need to improve and facilitate more frequent visits of children. I want to say hello to the Stortinget with a greeting from the Minister of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is very attentive and aware of it, and work has been done in relation to it. Criminal services will eventually provide different types of measures to increase the pressure from both police and prison in this field. I want to say to the representative Trine Skei Grande that yes, there have been some debates in Stortinget in this field, and I want to thank for the commitment that Left has had in the field. But in public space, there has been far too little focus on these children and on those who are left with parental responsibility. There has been a taboo area where we haven't had enough public attention. That's why it's important that the Storting takes time for that kind of debate. I think that in itself is important to get more attention in the public space in the continuation. Then the representative May Hansen had three challenges for me. I felt that I was responding to them in my contribution to the representative Syversen, but I can promise that we are going through all those issues and are doing our utmost, and that the entire College of Government is concerned that we are going to do something for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e816	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e830	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e839	The proposal to establish a separate compensation scheme for people infected with hepatitis C between 1980 and 1993 raises an important debate in principle. It is important for the public to be responsible and to take responsibility for citizens who have suffered improperly from mistreatment or abuse by health institutions or other. Treatment methods are changing at an increasingly rapid rate. What was adequate treatment yesterday has been replaced by new, modern treatment methods today, based on new technology and new knowledge. The health problems experienced by many patients with hepatitis C infection in blood transfusions in Norwegian hospitals in the 1980s and beyond have, in the worst cases, caused damage to health and damage to the quality of life for many. Therefore, the government parties do not take lightly this issue of an overall settlement of claims for this group. When we choose to point to other solutions, there are several reasons. The case raises questions of principle, as has been said, relating to the extent to which the State is to assume a general responsibility, with retroactive effect, for damage that no methods or systems were in place to avoid at the time of infection. Further questions are raised about the appropriateness of setting up a special scheme in which one group is treated according to other criteria and granted extended rights in relation to other patient groups that have been injured in healthcare. The groups in society that have been subjected to what has been considered to be abuse, or unfair treatment, on the part of the authorities, are difficult to see as directly comparable to patients who have been innocently infected by blood transfusion in a hospital where good faith has been traded. Blood transfusion is a necessary, and vital, health care for those receiving such treatment, and no one doubts that the healthcare system has not carried out its tasks to the best of its ability when these patients were transfused. The infection that was applied to the patients was not identified at the time it was given, and could thus not have been found by screening the blood. Health care is now, and will continue to be, delivered to the best of its ability and in relation to the level of knowledge that the healthcare system possesses at all times. We will probably never be able to guarantee ourselves fully against the unintended consequences of different treatments. There will certainly be better medicines and new procedures in the future, which are different from those used today. Should we then be able to seek compensation for the fact that new technology will produce better results in the future than is the case for aid that has been given a sail at an earlier date? It is a difficult question, but unfortunately timely for many patient groups and could become increasingly topical as new technologies and research provide us with new and improved treatment methods in the future. We therefore believe that it is right and important to have a time limit for possible complaints and that a limitation period of 20 years should be maintained. The limit set, we think, is sufficient to detect most of the side effects and consequences of health care. There will always be exceptions to such arrangements, where we will experience that individuals are just too late from the deadlines set. We also experience that in other areas of society. In spite of that, we believe it is appropriate that such a deadline exists, and that we must have a defined limit. It is now possible to deal with cases where the situation has not been discovered before the deadline. The size has set up the so-called 'feasibility compensation scheme'. The centre party, SV and the Workers' Party believe that reasonable claims for compensation should be channelled through this scheme and look with concern at an evolution of individual treatment for different groups, which would undermine the existing arrangements we have for claims for those who fall outside the limitation period. Where State authorities consider it reasonable to grant financial compensation to persons in a group who do not have legal claims for compensation, such compensation may be granted through the cheap compensation scheme. Where necessary, the guidelines of this system should be adjusted and adapted, where appropriate, in order to better meet relevant requirements. It is important to ensure that these arrangements are good. It would be reasonable to believe that many of the groups we are talking about here could get the highest possible payout, sail whether we can or should not advance the treatment of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e862	Between 1980 and 1993, a significant number of patients were infected with hepatitis C in Norwegian hospitals. Blood transfers were essentially the source of the infection. Many of these are patients who have suffered severe pain and, as a result, have not been able to maintain their normal life in the way you would otherwise expect. Of course, such suffering brings great economic loss, mental suffering and a life in which it is felt helpless. The symptoms most people get are poor appetite, fatigue, abdominal pain, nausea and headache. In some cases, yellowing of the skin and/or dark urine may also occur. Anxiety, joint and muscle pain, sleep problems and immunodeficiency are other symptoms that may occur relatively shortly after the infection has occurred. Later in the course of the disease there are also a number of other complications that may arise, as an indirect consequence of the infection. In the opinion of the proposers, there is no doubt that the patients concerned have suffered greatly as a result of the infection they have been involuntarily affected. Patients have come to Norwegian hospitals for treatment, but unfortunately they have also been affected by a very serious illness that has turned their lives upside down. The proposers have been in contact with several patients who have been refused because of the 20-year deadline. Several of these have searched just after they got the diagnosis. These refusals are justified on the basis of the above deadline. The proposers believe that this deadline cannot be in force in the absence of diagnosis, despite the fact that these patients have had several of the symptoms that have been reported in the past for a long time. A sample, reduced by then Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten on 15 September 2003, has concluded that there should be a coordinated settlement of claims for this group, including: because diagnosis has taken too long, so that the time limit for seeking compensation has expired for many of the patients concerned. The selection was perfectly clear in its setting. Those involved would be compensated in a coordinated manner. The Progress Party is concerned that the state, government and big business, cannot waive responsibility for this group of patients, who have suffered great economic and social losses and have been deprived of opportunities to live a normal, dignified life. And providing compensation through the cheap substitute system won't give many of the patients who have been the most vulnerable, a decent substitute. The fee has a ceiling of NOK 200000. This is precisely why the Progress Party does not want a cheap substitute. So we're talking about people who've been deprived of the opportunity to earn a living for many, many years. We're talking about people who in the worst case have ended up dying. That the state does not assume its full responsibility is, as I see it, pointless. The compensation for which the other lots are entitled does not imply that in this case a worthy replacement is granted. Against this background, I am promoting the proposal from the Progress Party to establish a new coordinated system of compensation for those infected with hepatitis C through blood transfusions in the Norwegian health care system, in line with the recommendation of the Hepatitis C Committee. A coordinated replacement of the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget does not mean that there is no room for differentiation in the settlement so that this can be carried out in respect and dignity of people who have already suffered enough suffering. The fact that government and greatness treat its citizens in a way that is fair to the individual is very important, whether we want a society based on understanding and respect. I can't see that it's being done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e879	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e882	When there are errors in the services offered to patients in hospitals in Norway, and these patients suffer both physical and mental suffering and potential financial losses, it needs to be corrected. In many cases, it is not possible for service providers to predict that errors are being made. Nevertheless, those affected should receive an uproar. The upswing could have two functions, first, an economic function by making it easier, if not complete, then at least a little bit, on the losses that have been incurred, and secondly, a psychological function by the fact that those who are affected will have some sort of public admission and excuse that what happened should not have happened. The hepatitis C infected by transfusion is such a group. The Christian People’s Party has as its starting point that reasonable claims should be channelled through the cheap compensation scheme. Int. S. No 36 for 2002-2003, a unanimous judiciary formulated itself as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine alternative proposals for compensation schemes as a compensation for the war children who have suffered particular suffering, loss and unfairness as a result of being war children. The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for settlement of claims as soon as possible and preferably during 2003.’ In the light of this Decision, the Bondevik II Government submitted St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004. Int. S. No 152 for 2004-2005 to St.meld. No 44, a single juriscomite endorsed the proposal of the Bondevik II Government that reasonable compensation schemes should also be granted in the future by adapting to the cheap compensation scheme. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that, in the context of the 2007 draft budget, a detailed explanation be given by the Government on how the cheap substitutes scheme can be applied to patients infected with hepatitis C through blood transfusion between 1980 and 1993. Such a statement will also provide useful information to applicants infected with hepatitis C and provide an assessment and possibility of changing conditions. The Christian People's Party wants to compensate for the injustice that has become their part. I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e900	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e903	Unfortunately, some patients are injured and mistreated in Norwegian hospitals. To deal with such injuries and mistreatments, we have created Norwegian Patient Compensation, NPE, in Norway. The NPE is basically an all-inclusive system for the replacement of patients. Patients infected with hepatitis C must in principle be managed within the NPE system. Unfortunately, there are some people who, for different reasons, fall outside the scheme, and I believe that there will be the situation no matter how many replacement arrangements we might have. The question in this case is how to help in these cases, i.e. help patients who fall outside the specific substitution schemes created. The left is not in line with the proposals from the Progress Party, since a new co-ordinated substitution scheme must be created for those who have been infected with hepatitis C, but for various reasons have been rejected by Norwegian patients. The left, on the other hand, is in agreement with the majority in the Committee that the patients concerned must now address their claims against the judicial remedy system. In the end, I would like to comment on the case spokesman's comments a little. The case spokesperson said, of course, in agreement with the committee on this matter. So I was a little surprised when I read in today's Trønder-Avisa, where the case-speaker Asphjell of the Workers' Party expresses the opposite view. Citation: “Personally, I would like to see us set up a separate compensation scheme for this group.” I just have to say that I was very surprised when I saw the difficult look-up in Trunder-Avisa. Isn't that what we call double communication? I'll say double communication of the worst kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e919	I will first express my condolences to this group. I have a great deal of understanding of the burden that individuals have been put on by being infected with hepatitis C. This matter also raises some fundamental questions, including: related to the extent to which the State is required to assume a general responsibility, with retroactive effect, for damage which it did not have methods or systems to avoid at the time of infection. Furthermore, there is a question of the appropriateness of setting up a specific scheme, one group being treated according to other criteria and granted extended rights in relation to other patient groups that have also been harmed in the healthcare sector. In March 2004, the report entitled ‘Transfusion Infection with hepatitis C — Dissemination on responsibilities, scope and substitution’ was published. Here, as we know, a separate substitution scheme was proposed for those infected with hepatitis C after a blood transfusion. Later that year, in July 2004, St.meld became. No 44 for 2003-2004, compensation scheme for children in war and compensation schemes for Roma/taters and elderly harmed co-workers and women. This message has been essential for the treatment of the hepatitis C case by this government. An assessment related to the general treatment of claims by different social groups was carried out here. The main conclusion of the message can be summarised in three ways: 1st@item: inlistbox Replacement legal requirements against the State, including group requirements, should be resolved in the future by existing legislation for the treatment of such requirements.2. Reasonable claims in the form of individual claims should be channelled through the cheap substitutes scheme, with the possibility for the Storting to adopt specific guidelines and/or principles for the processing of applications by the members of the group.3. Fairness-based claims in the form of collective claims should be addressed in future in the ordinary budgetary processes of the government and the Storting. Collective compensation is applicable where government authorities consider it reasonable to grant financial compensation to the group as such, in the form of payments to, for example: foundations, foundations or museums. During Storting's processing of the message, cf. Inner. S. No 152 for 2004-2005, as also the representative, Ms Davøy, among others. the Justice Committee concluded that it was not appropriate to establish several specific compensation schemes. So the size of the sample was different from the size of the sample. In its work on this matter, the Government has taken the decision not to set up a separate compensation scheme for hepatitis C infected people. This is due to issues related to the basis for establishing a separate substitution scheme for hepatitis C transmission agents. Should we put in place a separate compensation scheme for this group, I believe that we would have moved away from the principles that have been laid down by Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 44. For the sake of order, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ministry of Justice raised questions about the reimbursement of the fee for the bleeders in St.prp. No 72 for 1998-1999 following a request from the Association for Hemorrhage In Norway. When the Stortinge dealt with this proposition, the Ministry of Justice recommended that cheap substitutes should be given to anyone infected with hepatitis C. Just because there could be considerable differences in the health consequences of infection in these cases, Stortinget concluded that the question of compensation measurements had to be addressed individually for each case. Persons infected with hepatitis C through blood transfusion have been able to obtain substitution through three schemes. As you know it is: Norwegian Patient claims medical device insurance schemea After the information I have, 31 patients have been awarded compensation from Norwegian Patient Compensation. A person is entitled to compensation from the medical insurance scheme. The equity compensation scheme has paid individual compensation to 107 patients. The Justice Secretariat reports that all patients who have claimed cheap substitutes for hepatitis C infection after blood transfusion are eligible for such substitution. The persons in this group have been dealt with through the existing schemes their claims based on an individual assessment in each case. I also repeat that all patients who have asked for an allowance have been granted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e968	I would just like to ask the Council of State a question in connection with the fact that we can read the following statements from the case-rapporteur today in Trønder-Avisa: ‘Personally, I would like to see a separate compensation scheme for this group. But here the government has taken an overall assessment, and goes against it." Here, the Government surpasses its own and also the case rapporteur, who obviously has a different position. What is the background to the fact that the Council of State here is overrun by its large-scale group, at least by the rapporteur, so that he cannot stand up for his original position? Question no. 2: Reference to the Committee on the Exchange of Letters. Here you have a roof arrangement up to NOK 200,000, unless you make specific decisions that you should be able to go beyond that sum. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the Stortinget where she recommends the Stortinget to go beyond NOK 200 000 in the most serious cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e981	We haven't overrun anyone. What the Government proposes in this case, and which it seems to be joining in the Stortinget, as it is in the setting, is in line with what the Stortinget has said in the past, among other things. Int. S. No 152 for 2004-2005, where a unanimous Justice Department, including the Advance Party, said that it was not appropriate to establish several specific compensation schemes. We took that into account when we dealt with this matter. With regard to the question of cheap compensation, it is the case that everyone who has claimed it has received it. As of now, we do not intend to increase those amounts, but I will not rule out that in the future there may be a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e988	The Christian People's Party has said that it is right to use the cheap compensation scheme in this case. Similarly, I would ask the Council of State in the context of the 2007 budget to take a new round just to see if it could still be such that it would be appropriate to adapt the cheapness compensation scheme for some, as we did earlier in the case of the orphanage children, where the Stortinget finally received a lot of information and made a decision that in that case they would go something further in the most serious cases. This is a little bit of the same question asked by the representative Nesvik, but I still want to ask it: can the Council of State think of such a review? In fact, I think there is a need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e995	Let me first say that, in line with the Storting decision, this government is prepared to use the existing arrangements. Then I also see that at some point there may be a need to review and assess how the different schemes work. I can't over the table – I would almost say – promise that we can take the full review of the budget for the autumn. To that I think it's a little short. But that we have to review in the long run how the system works, I'm very open to it. Now, when we come up with new special arrangements, I'm against it. I think we should use the existing ones. But then we always have to be open to see how the existing arrangements actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1004	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1009	Just as the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen was involved in his main post, there were a significant number of patients between 1980 and 1993 who had their lives ruined by being infected by hepatitis C in Norwegian hospitals. In today's Tronder-Avisa we can read about Eli Brandtz egg, which is one of those that got infected. To Trønder-Avisa she says the following: ‘I suffered severe pain, was relaxed and in poor shape. In the 80's, I went in and out of the clinics, but they never found out what was wrong with me. I experienced not being believed, and it is a terrible extra load when you are really bad». I fully agree with the sick person in this case. It must be a significant extra burden not to be believed when fighting against the public in such a serious matter. When the diagnosis was made, more than 20 years had passed since the hospital infected her with hepatitis C in the hospital. Three to four months had passed more than the country had defined as the limitation period for such cases. In other words, the state charged her with the infection, and much indicates that they knew that it could be the cause of her plague. I have a great understanding that this lady and all the others who have been charged with this infection feel a strong bitterness. In addition to feeling that the disease has caused them great suffering, these and their families have also been charged with a large extra cost. I find it disappointing that the majority in this matter does not show a more worthy morale than what is being done. When the State causes a disease and suffering to a human being, the State should also, as the Progress Party has promoted a Document No. 8-proposals for, take it inwards and give a proper substitute – it should just be missing. In conclusion, I think that both the government and the majority in this Chamber show some sort of unworthy morality in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1029	As I said in my introduction, this has been a very difficult matter politically, because it draws up some principal aspects of an important question, and because there are so many individuals who have suffered from having a hepatitis C infection transmitted through blood transfusion. It is referred from the representative of Nesvik to an article in Trønder-Avisa today that my personal will is not heard in this matter. As rapporteur of the case, I have had regular contact both with the department and not least with the three parties in the government. Of course, when these three batches come together about a suspension, it is based on the advice and professional assessments that have had to be the basis for finding a system that meets the needs for this type of patient injury replacement. As I said, it may seem very unreasonable when it's an individual shipper. That's why it's even more important that we have some fundamental discussions around this. The fact that the previous representative was in the business of providing a cheap substitute is also a handshake for the suffering suffered by individuals. However, the amount will in no way be able to replace the disadvantages, diseases and health problems suffered by individuals. The recommendation made by the majority of the Committee is also in line with the recommendation made by the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1040	It's been referred from the Trunder-Avisa. I also want to refer a little bit from it, and it's from a human being who has actually been exposed to this: "It's bitter. You don't get well getting money. But this is about principles and morality. And about being believed. There is no one, nor in the state, who today doubts that it was the transfusion that gave me the infection. And then it feels wrong that the limitation period is practiced as rigorously as the disease has given her and the family large extra costs of several hundred thousand kroner. [[...]] [[...]] Yet it is not the money, but the morality, she thinks is most important." That's where this hall bombs completely today. It's about our own morals. Is it so that we should stand here and use every opportunity to refer to previous decisions, where we have also bombed bad? Should we not also refer to decisions in which we have actually opted for a coordinated compensation payment, such as in relation to the Roma people, as in relation to the lobotomized? That's what we should do in this case. It's actually the Norwegian health service that has put on them, this disease, and it's clear that the Stortinget has a special responsibility. How should this room build confidence when the majority does not trust their own? The way the majority deals with this matter, it hurts me, because there is no justice the majority is exercising in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1053	I get provoked when I hear representatives ask questions about the Storting's moral attitude and moral principles in this matter. I believe that the bulk of the population actually takes a clear responsibility. We heard the council say that there are patients who have been compensated. ==References== 30 patients have received compensation through Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation, one person has received compensation through the medicinal product scheme, and more than 100 people have received compensation through the cheap substitution scheme. So the majority say very clearly: ‘The majority further believe that this will also ensure that patients’ claims for replacement will receive individual treatment’ — which the proposers are just asking for — ‘and that a coordinated compensation scheme cannot adequately take into account the different life situations in which patients infected with hepatitis C are located’. So when the Storting today comes to a decision in this matter, I believe that the Storting has really taken moral responsibility and acknowledges liability by allowing one to apply on an individual basis through the cheap compensation scheme. The fact that we do not take moral responsibility – to be mistrusted – I do find it very provocative to hear from the representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1067	It's the same thing as the representative, Mr Schjellaa, I also want to talk about. I am also provoked when we are discriminated against and almost deprived of all morals and principles. At least I will totally reject it. As I said in my article, the point of this case is how we're going to solve a problem that's recognised by everyone. The normal thing, as I said, is that it's Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation that's the main solution. When they don't step in, as in this case, it's the legal compensation that's in force. In order to resolve matters for those who fall outside – a few cases – we have the legal compensation scheme. So this is going to cover all of these things. We in the Left think that we have at least as high morals as those who claim they have, in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1076	The matter itself has been dealt with in such an exhaustive manner that I will not go into that part itself. But I think I have to solve a couple of little things. This applies in particular to the representative, Mr Schjélaa, who had just made a statement showing that the representative could not have intervened in the scheme and the way in which it operates. If it had been right, as the representative of the Skjälaa pointed out, that the Storting has now taken responsibility for the compensation when they have referred to the cheap compensation scheme, it would have to have been proposed in this position. This is not done – in the setting, there are no leads to the Billing Replacement Committee. The Equality Compensation Committee is the body of the Storting, which is set up to provide compensation in cases where other laws and other compensation schemes cannot be used. But then you have to include that here the individual is treated on an individual basis. It is the individual’s application to be submitted, processed and then decided in the Billing Replacement Committee. There is nothing in the setting that gives you any leads. There is nothing here that says anything about the amount from Stortinget's side today. Then you have not taken responsibility, because you do not give the leadership that is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1087	Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1091	I hear that the representative of the Skjälaa doesn't like to be questioned about morality, or lack of morality. If it's the case that the representative of the Kjellaa believes that we take a proper moral responsibility for people who have suffered, have lost work and have had a disease for many, many years, and that, when the ceiling for compensation is up to NOK 200,000, we have exercised the best morals in this matter, I would say one thing: if you look around the community and look at how compensation schemes work otherwise, it's not a good moral we exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1096	It was the representatives of the Progress Party that made me feel the need to take the floor, because when the Advance Party allows to ask what kind of society a want, there is absolutely a need to tell some truth about the Advance Party. I want to start by saying that nothing is perfect. No society in the world can be said to be perfect. Individual tragedies – and challenges – must be taken seriously. The Progress Party is a liberalist party. It wants Norway to become a big store where we're going to run around with our checks and trade according to the needs we have. Even representatives of the Progress Party in the Financial Committee have stood on this platform and said that they consider themselves as sellers – as sellers! The examination of this case shows that that's exactly what they're doing. What are they selling? Yes, they sell themselves to get more votes. I'm going to say that the Progress Party is actually founded to build down the society that the United Nations says is the best in the world. That is one reason, namely that we have had solidarity and love for the next. We have said that we need to have a community to solve the issues together. The party of progress is formed to do the opposite. One shall be careful to characterize someone from the pulpit, President...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1107	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1110	... but that this is similar to political prostitution, there must be no doubt at all. I demand the honesty of the Progress Party, where they say what their policies would lead to by the rights of the individual. Checker and lawyer fees, as the large majority in Norway would never actually be able to pay, that's the progress party society. They see America as the good community. We don't do that in the Workers' Party, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1115	The President is of the opinion that those who are given the floor should stick to that matter. In addition, the President has previously stated that one should not characterize one another.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1120	I'll stick to the matter. In the case of the cheap substitute scheme, 107 patients are individually compensated. All patients who have claimed cheap substitutes for hepatitis C are eligible for compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1127	After hearing the representative of the Workers' Party make a complete contribution without affecting the matter, I must say that I am, to some extent, surprised that it is allowed. We are dealing with a serious case about patients who are entitled to compensation, and then the Labour Party representative uses a whole article to express his opinion on the policy of the Progress Party that is not at all in line with reality. This doesn't matter! This is not the way to use the Speaker's Chair. All the lies and dirt that were mentioned from here have nothing to do with this matter. This is a serious matter, in which we have different opinions about how these people are going to make a mistake – at least get an economic upswing. The Progress Party believes that these should have extended rights – contrary to what the majority believes. You shouldn't question whether it's honest meant to be. The Progress Party has a health policy with great credibility, which many parties may envy us on many occasions. The Progress Party shall continue to hold. We must not take the opportunity to suspect our credibility in terms of health and care and patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1136	I'm not going to defend the Advance Party, they'll do it for themselves. I just want to say that I think it's a suspicion of a serious proposal, which actually also the Christian People's Party for a long time considered whether we should join. I need to say that. However, we have assessed it so that we would come up with an intermediate solution in line with the practice that Stortinget has had in recent years, after St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004. I hope that the Council of State will follow this up, if not exactly in the 2007 state budget – in any case, the Council of State has responded positively by not excluding the possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1145	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1162	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1179	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1196	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1209	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1268	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1276	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a new coordinated compensation scheme for those infected by hepatitis C through blood transfusions in the Norwegian health system, in line with the recommendation of the Hepatitis C Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1300	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks in the 2007 draft budget to provide a detailed assessment of how the cheap substitution scheme should be applied to patients infected with hepatitis C through blood transfusion between 1980 and 1993.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1332	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative of the Grand Parliament, Olemic Thommess, on behalf of the Party of Advances, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 29 May 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for the law of the Editor’s poster.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1347	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1354	Looks like a lot of people have voted wrong. Then we'll have a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1370	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative of the General Assembly, Olemic Thommess, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 29 May 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for the winding-up of its own rules and for its own supervision of media ownership. These tasks and functions are included under Competition Surveillance and the Competition Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1385	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1392	Then the number of votes shall be 71 votes against the proposal and 38 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08.ana.ud273e1400	There is a vote on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande, on behalf of the Left, submitted by Odelstinget meeting on 29 May 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Media Ownership Code, in particular with a view to reconsidering the rules on cross-ownership and regional ownership restrictions, and to return to the Storting on a case-by-case basis.’
