ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e74	Representatives André Oktay Dahl, Thore A. Nistad, Espen Johnsen, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa, Ingrid Heggø, Lars Peder Breck, and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the delegation, Mr Svein Roald Hansen. The application concerns the participation of the representatives of Marianne Aasen Agdestein, Laila Davøy, Steinar Gullvåg, Gjermund Hagesetter, Svein Roald Hansen and Tove Karoline Knutsen, from 22 May to 24 May, from the Socialist Left-wing Group on the maternity leave of the representative Lena Jensen from 23 May onwards and from the Spring Session of Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Gorm KjernliFor Hordaland County: Georg Indrevik and Knut Arild HareideFor Troms County: Ole-Anton Tegen and Knut Werner HansenFor Vestfold County: Silvia Kristoffersen KosmoFor Østfold County: Thor Erik Forsberg3. Knut Werner Hansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e168	Gorm Kjernli, Georg Indrevik, Knut Arild Hareide, Knut Werner Hansen, Silvia Kristoffersen Kosmo and Thor Erik Forsberg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e174	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings. The representative Hans Olav Syversen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e181	On behalf of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself, I am delighted to make a private proposal to strengthen the protection of claims against health and health damage caused by consumer goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e186	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e200	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e209	The issue we have before us today is on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals promoted by the Right. The background to the proposal is the protection of Norwegian rivers and fjords in order to safeguard the wild axis and the desire to soften and evaluate this protection before any extension. The vast majority of protected fjords have been protected since 1989. The government then introduced temporary protection zones for salmonids. Some of the protected rivers have been further protected by other types of watercourse protection, while some were protected for the first time by the Storting treatment of St.prp. No 79 for 2001-2002. The background to the establishment of temporary protection zones for salmon in 1989 was inter alia: a fear that the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris would spread from river to river via farmed fish in the fjord. Today we know that gyro does not spread via salt water. Today, the Directorate for Nature Management points out that aquaculture poses a threat to some salmon strains in the light of two factors: the escape and spread of salmon. Escape has been a major problem in recent years. In fact, an ever lower proportion of the fish produced remains to be found, but due to the increase in production, the overall rate of escape has not fallen in particular. However, there is reason to point out that there is no evidence that the protection of the feathers leads to fewer escapes, rather the opposite. A good example is the storm «Narve», which was herded along the Norwegian coast in January this year. The storm caused more than 400,000 salmon and rainbow trout to escape from their facilities — all from coastal sites, none from within the fjords. Similarly, it is important to point out that salmon salmon is completely natural. But when the concentration of emigrating smolt becomes too high, it will have a reduced chance of survival. But then the melt leaves the rivers at the same time as the spring solution and when the flow of water in the rivers is at its greatest. This means that the salinity of many of the protected and planned protected feathers at this time of year is so low that the lusa just dies – and there is virtually no salinity in the mermaids. There is further reason to point out that the farming industry is working seriously with both escape and salmon industry, and is achieving good results in both of these areas. I show you, among other things: to the position of the majority in the 2006 budget. Then I have to say a little bit about the rivers. In many municipalities, there was a large majority for protection in the 1990s and until the 2002 decision. These municipalities considered the fallacy to be a more important resource than electricity. Now the same municipalities feel that they are not allowed to implement measures to promote fishing in their own river, because it is protected. They are not allowed to build small power plants in the lateral watercourses – the non-leaching parts of the river. Is this reasonable and in line with the grounds for protection? I don't think so. What I know is that an evaluation could have given an answer to that. Norwegian aquaculture industry is growing. More and more fish are produced for higher profitability. At the same time, it is an industry that by its very nature is district friendly. It's not possible to centralize a mercenary. If the industry is to continue to grow as a profitable district industry, it must have room to grow. Good locations are the main factor in ensuring further growth and profitability. Many of the best places are in the fjords, protected from the weather and wind, and with high fresh water content in the water. But it doesn't seem that today's voting will contribute to better conditions for the industry. The most frightening thing about the majority position is that it is said that Norwegian wild breeds are threatened by extinction, which is not at all true. 252 salmon strains were considered viable and not threatened by the Directorate for Nature Management. With such a lack of common perception of reality, it is difficult to have a sensible debate on the subject. The majority will not have an evaluation of protection until it is extended. It's not long enough, it's claimed. I believe that those who have been engaged in aquaculture in connection with and in salmon fjords for 16 years think it is long enough. The majority will not abolish the temporary protection zones today, despite the government having said it will take place until the harvest. The majority would also not even consider allowing rainbow trout farming in the protected areas, despite the fact that the Rieber-Mohn Committee assumed that the problem was not farmed. This may indicate that the success criteria of this government's environmental policy, as with so many governments before unfortunately, are to be protected as far as possible square kilometres, no matter how useful the protection is for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e241	It is worth noting who is the proposer behind this Document No. The 8 proposal, i.e. the right, with, inter alia, Ivar Kristiansen, member of the Energy and Environment Committee. Of course, the Right has avoided Børge Brende – former Minister for the Environment Børge Brende – as a proposal maker. I guess that would be a little too embarrassing. And why? Well, it was Børge Brende who, as Minister for the Environment, presented a proposition on the creation of salmon fjords and watercourses in the last period. In connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 134 – St.prp. No 79 for 2001-2002 on salmon fjords – said R.A.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Government Parties and the Workers’ Party propose that the temporary protection zones now being decommissioned, however, so that new salmon concessions are not granted in these areas’ – and note this – ‘before the Storting has finalised proposals for supplementing and completing the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords’. It must be timely to ask why the Right and Børge Burnde have turned 180 degrees in this case. During the landfilling of national salmon fjords, the Right proposed that nothing be changed before the finalisation was considered. Today, right-wing proposals require that completion does not need to be completed in the Storting before changes are implemented. In 2003, the Right, on the other hand, demanded that the temporary hedged zones be maintained until the completion of the system. This is yet to be seen in a separate proposal promoted by the majority in the Grand Duchy during the debate. The majority, as you know, consisted of the government parties and the Workers' Party. We note that former Environment Minister Børge Brende has lost this case in his own party. It's sad. The Labour Party, on the other hand, is committed to the compromise we reached with the Bondevik II Government. The working party is determined by the completion of the salmon fjords and leachate system in line with the Storting Decision of 25 February 2003. It is gratifying that the Christian People's Party and the Left are also credible on this issue and are committed to the decisions of the salmon compromise. It is fundamentally alarming that the Right is promoting this Document No. The 8 proposal, seen in the light of the government's statement that it will present a proposition on completion in the current year. Councillor Bjørnøy has made it clear that the Government will present this proposition for the autumn. So you can just wonder why it's urgent for the Right to promote the old proposals of the Advance Party from the treatment of St.prp. No 79 on national salmon waters. And of course you can also wonder why it is now so important for the Right to promote a Document No. Eight proposals, which the party on the previous crossroads voted against. You do not have to look for a long time in this house until you find those who suggest that now the Right has thrown the principles on the boat. For the Right, it has become more important to lodge for Siv Jensen. And in this case, Right after the Advance Party is a happy puppy. Is it competition from the Progress Party that has led the Right to go the broad road of populism? Finally, the Labour Party, together with the SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, will reject the proposal on the grounds that the Stortinget has decided that these issues should be addressed when the proposal on the completion of salmon fjords and salmon rivers is promoted. We look forward to a real debate in this room when the announced proposition is presented in autumn 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e268	Like the Labour Party's speeches on this matter, I am also going to talk about Righteous Policy – in a matter that is very important for Coast Norway, for Norwegian fishing industry and for people who are concerned about how to survive in terms of coastal settlement and development: how to achieve growth and development – and, in particular, by using the possibilities of Norwegian farming, which are actually the most sovereign in the world, have the best conditions for developing – in a healthy, positive future? We're busy with that. Of course, the right is true of what we have been involved in developing since 2003, but I think we are doing great damage by doing what you are doing in the Workers' Party: choosing to close your eyes and ears because there has been a 2003 development. The then state councillor, Børge Burnde, was trying to obtain documentation, acquire knowledge, which could be used in these issues, when a round of two might be considered. What is clear now, and all in the Right are unisontly agreed, is that we do not have the adequate knowledge, the evidence, which should have provided us with a basis for now launching a comprehensive protection of new Norwegian fjord arms and streams, rivers, which are actually on the world scale the most suitable for farming salmon. That is why it is very disappointing to see that the government, and not least now from the Workers' Party, chooses to talk about something quite different from the matter. I think we're making a big mistake if we close our eyes because there are no challenges in securing the future existence of the wild axis. But here, too, we have to get documentation, take the break by evaluating the round we've been through, which is actually quite extensive, before we start a new, comprehensive round. In addition, I allow myself to comment on the proposals from the Progress Party and the Right as set out in the setting. Otherwise, I just have to be allowed to say that I am fully committed to the excellent proposals made by the rapporteur. Norwegian farming has grown almost despite researchers. It has been stamped out – small breeders along the coast have been fighting this industry. And you've met challenges, you've met resistance – not just national, but even more in the market. Looking back only 35 years, 100 tonnes of farmed salmon were produced in Norway at a value of 7 million. kr. In 2005, we produced 600 000 tonnes, with an export value of 14 billion kroner. And we have a potential where it's almost just the imagination that can set limits. We must not destroy the possibilities of this industry. We cannot allow hunters and fishermen, Bellona or others to set the agenda for how this industry will evolve. At least we have to take the breakup, before we put a stop to how this industry is going to develop in Coast Norway, that we are getting documentation and coatings. Fortunately, we have people, in this case from the Ås environment, who clearly establish that the farmed salmon is not a threat to the wild stocks. Had it been the threat that some undocumentable claims say, the farmed salmon had actually taken over all genes in Norwegian rivers. So it hasn't. But at the same time, I think we're going to be honest on these questions: we have a lot of challenges in terms of escape, and in terms of the loop problem, which the case-rapporteur was dealing with. But then there must be a willingness not to pursue a trenches policy, which I have the impression of doing in these questions. The players involved in both the salmon industry in Norway and – as much – the wildfish population will then sit down and talk together before further and more brutal protection has been achieved, before they have at all been able to provide some form of evidence to suggest that there is a need for further and radical interventions in the industry’s development potential. That's why my message is: Use one of the mountain weather rules when there's a need to apply it; it often tends to be reasonable in all manner of weather when it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e285	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e288	Protection of the Atlantic wild species has been an important environmental issue in recent years. It is important to maintain this salmon strain for several reasons. It concerns our commitment to preserving biodiversity, it is the possibility of access to genetic material for the farming industry, it is the prospect of good recreational fishing and thereby the consideration of an increasingly important district industry – tourism. Norway is so lucky to have a unique occurrence of wild breeds, with great species wealth, and our country is a core area for the wild species. There is therefore a strong consensus to take care of and manage the wild game in a good and long-term way. This was also the reason why the Stortinget decided in 2003 to protect 37 watercourses such as salmon watercourses and 21 fjords such as salmon fjords. At the same time, the Christian People's Party and the rest of the Stortinget suggested that it should be established approx. 50 national salmon streams and their salmon fjords. We are now waiting for the Government to come to Stortinget with a list of new salmon rivers and salmon fjords – a matter that the Government has announced during this year. The Christian People's Party therefore feels that today's debate is a prematurity, and caused by the labelling needs of certain parties to announce new positions in relation to what may have been faced in the past. The threat to the wildax strain is compounded. The main elements are the attacks of Gyrodactylus salaris, escaped farmed salmon, salmon, contamination and interference in watercourses. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the ministry is now working to address these threats constructively in cooperation with industries, communities, the breeding industry and its organisations. In today's position, the Right and Advance Party promote several proposals that the Christian People's Party believes belong in the work on the announced matter from the Government. In 2003, the Storting asked for an evaluation of the measures with salmon fjords and salmon rivers, and I assume that the department is in the process of carrying out the follow-up research that can provide the basis for an evaluation. However, to require a treatment of the evaluation before a new extension, it may show that the Right does not fully support what the Bondevik government agreed on. For us in the Christian People's Party, sustainable environmental policies are important. The goal must be to protect biodiversity. This is our ground plank. Evaluation of the effectiveness of a measure must take some time. And then to demand a stop to a well-founded extension is in fact to say stop to more protection. As regards the binding of temporary protection zones for salmon fishing, the Christian People's Party believes that in its letter to the Committee of 24 April d.o.b. is affordablely clear. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party considers that the Government will abolish the temporary protection zones of salmon fjords adopted as protected in 2003 and that other temporary protection zones will be repealed if they are not proposed for protection in the notified proposal, which will come during that year. There is also reason to consider whether farming facilities for fish species other than salmon should be covered by the protection of salmon fjords. I hope that the Council of State will take a closer look at this when the Government is working on this question. The proposals that the Right and Advance Party are promoting today feel that the Christian People's Party naturally belongs in the debate that comes about an extended protection of salmon fjords. We are not faced with a trench debate, as someone has suggested. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the debate we are going to have in a year's time. Against this background, the Christian People's Party believes that the document should be annexed to the Minutes, and I take this up in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e307	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e310	The left agrees with the majority in this case and the reasons given by the majority in the vote. However, I would like to make a few brief comments on behalf of the Left. The Bondevik II Government made proposals to the Storting and adopted a scheme for 37 national salmon rivers and 21 salmon fjords. It was suggested from the previous government that one should follow this up with further proposals, so that one received 50 national salmon rivers and their salmon fjords. The left is pleased that the new government is following this up and announces proposals to this effect for the autumn. It is true that there is some new knowledge, and it is true that there are those who claim that the effects of the national salmon watercourses and the salmon fjords have been absent. They're worth listening to, and it's important to evaluate the effect. However, such an evaluation must be based on knowledge and monitoring over time. The left believes that there is no basis for saying stop now and go into a different political course than the previous government had, and as today's government says one will follow up. Left will be subjected to established protections to update against foreground. We want an evaluation during this major period, and believe it is too long-term perspective that is drawn from the Government when one indicates that there is a monitoring programme in place to gain decades of experience. We want when this matter comes to Stortinget again, to submit a plan for evaluation as part of a decision on several salmon rivers and salmon fjords. The left is also concerned that so much research is being done in this area that the decisions we are making are based on the best possible knowledge. And we believe that a reference fjord can be a good tool for gaining new knowledge. In our election program, we have agreed that the Fördefjord in Sogn and Fjordane will become a national reference fjord, and we will make proposals accordingly when the Government makes its decision. I already want to challenge the Government to propose a reference fjord that can help mitigate the conflicts around it, which ensure protection, while at the same time basing it on the best possible knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e325	The North Atlantic Wilderness Resource has been reduced by more than 75 pst. since the 1970s. There is no doubt that populations have fallen sharply in Norway as well. We still have many and viable populations, which actually equals about one third of all North Atlantic wild breeds. This gives Norway special international responsibility with high requirements for national follow-up. National salmon flows and salmon fjords mean that about three-quarters of Norway’s total resources of Atlantic salmon are provided with specific protection in watercourses and fjords. From an international perspective, this means that almost one third of the North Atlantic wild axis is given such protection. Thus, national salmon and salmon fjords represent a significant rise in the wild species, both nationally and internationally. There are no single measures that can guarantee the wild character of the future. The special life cycle of the villa poses a number of threats both in the watercourses, in coastal areas and in marine areas. These threats range from physical intervention to contamination, parasites, escaped farmed salmon and illegal fishing. This means that the wild species can only be ensured through a strong and comprehensive conservation policy, where several different authorities and industries are making an effort. National salmon watercourses and salmon fjords are a necessary but not sufficient measure for the wild species. In addition to completing this system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords, the Government will also strengthen the protection of the wild species in other areas. We want to step up efforts to combat Gyrodactylus salaris, step up measures against long-term farmed salmon and preserve the habitats of the wild species. This appears to be particularly important areas of activity. In the announced landfill proposal on the wild species, we will both present a concrete proposal for new national salmon rivers and salmon fjords and also present the Government's overall policy for the protection of the wild species. Document No. The 8 proposal reflects a debate in different settings on the impact of national salmon fjords. From research teams, it has, among other things, it has been stated that the salmon fjords must be large and preferably farmed-free if they are to produce sufficient power. The breeding industry has also claimed that the measure does not provide sufficient efficacy in relation to the problems of escaped farmed salmon and salmon. It has always been considered that problems with escapes, fish diseases and parasites need to be addressed primarily through specific measures. However, with the problems we have today in these areas, it would not be appropriate to increase the level of salmon farming in the fjords most important for the wild. In addition, national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords are an integral measure to provide the main salmon stocks with additional insurance and protection both in the watercourses and in the associated fjords. It is also part of this discussion that, in line with the proposal of the Bondevik II Government, the Stortinget provided for an evaluation of the scheme no later than 10 years after its completion, when it dealt with the case in 2003. Such an evaluation must be based on knowledge over time and therefore a wide-ranging programme, lasting over 10 years, has been launched for monitoring the scheme. I can also assure the representative from the Left that we want to include his proposals in the further evaluation. With regard to the Christian People's Party's proposal to abolish the temporary protection zone, I would like to confirm that we will also consider this in connection with the work we are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e348	I will first be allowed to say that I do not feel that this is not about allowing new activity in the feathers that are protected. In fact, it is much more about the protection that leads the industry to die in the feathers it is about. How many farms today look like they did 15 years ago? It's just a matter of time before the industry dies into the feathers that are being protected. But then the Council of State says that the North Atlantic wild-ax populations are reduced. Yes, it is true, both in North America, in Scotland – the British Isles – that the population has gone back. However, the Council of State also says that the populations and strains of wild breeds have fallen sharply in Norway. These are numbers that I have not seen, and I would like the Council of State to quantify the number of tribes that have gone back, and not least to specify the source, so that the rapporteur also gets involved in these figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e355	I ask for an understanding that I do not have the sources here, but this I promise the representative will be sent as soon as possible. It is important for us to see that the issue of national salmon fjords and salmon streams is an international obligation, so that we also have to see the Norwegian tribe in connection with the international tribe. That's what's important, I think we see it in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e360	The councils let it shine by being motivated for further protection of watercourses and fjords based on the fact that 75 pst. of the North Atlantic salmon strain has disappeared in a few years. What researchers and research institutions are there that give the Council back coverage more than to suggest that there is a close link between the breeding of Norwegian salmon in Norwegian fjords and the fact that the North Atlantic wildax strain is reduced as strongly as the Council of State refers to?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e365	We now have enough knowledge to say that the level of farming activity has an impact on the amount of escaped farmed salmon in rivers and also on the presence of e.g. lakterus. So there's a connection between the farming industry and the wild species. We have said that we should come back to Stortinget with a roll-out proposal, and the concrete documentation will also come out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e370	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e375	Norway has 5,700 miles of coast. It goes without saying that the use of the sea and marine resources is an essential part of the economic development along the coast. Norway has a unique presence of wild breeds, and we will take care of it, although several factors threaten some of the wild breeds. It has been focused on the farming industry as one of the threat factors. But this industry is just as dependent on a clean sea and a good environment as the wild axis is. As a salmon farmer said, ‘Good environmental policy is about ensuring that the value creation is biologically sustainable.’ That is the responsibility of the industry, and I have the impression that they take responsibility. 150 farms are affected on the last proposal of the Directorate for Nature Management. The industry has to be included in the final phase we're about to enter. District Norway needs this industry. It creates jobs and settlements along the coast. I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast has now decided to set up a Commission for, among other things. reducing the evacuation of farmed salmon, because the escape figures are too large. Not all farms have the same problems with escape and salmonids. The Skjerstadfjord in Northern Ireland does not have these problems, but nevertheless it is proposed protection now in the last round. For 25 years there has been breeding in this fjord without problems with lice, disease or escape. No adverse effects on the wild species have been observed either. The reason is that Skjerstadfjorden has a formidable water exchange through the world's strongest malt stream, Saltstromen. In addition, the fjord has a large amount of brackish water in the spring and summer months, which is not much the salmon rush. This feather needs a sensible assessment. I see no reason, through a Document No. Eight proposals, to remove what are still the 1989 hedged zones. Governments have notified a case to the Stortinget during the year on the completion of salmon rivers and fjords, in which case all matters shall be dealt with. The industry has been waiting a long time for the completion to come in 2004–2005. The Bondevik government couldn't do that, and then we can't let the industry wait any longer for an evaluation. The industry will have predictability as soon as possible. Like the Storting, the Bondevik government wanted to spend up to 10 years on an evaluation. The job has been started by the government. The right could have done this matter done, if they thought it was urgent so, while they were in government. Therefore, I see no reason to provide this matter now through a private proposal in the Stortinget from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e394	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2287]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e410	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e419	All shall have the possibility to have outdoor activities such as health promotion, well-being and environmentally friendly activities in the neighbourhood and in the wild. Coastal areas are of great value to outdoor life and are simultaneously under a pressure of expansion. It is therefore important to increase public access to the open air areas in general and to the beach areas in particular. Figures from municipalities through KOSTRA together with estimates from the Statistical Central Bureau show that the expansion of the coastal zone continues – despite the general prohibition of construction in the 100-metre belt along the coast by the Law on Planning and Building. New buildings and other measures may be implemented only after a derogation is granted, unless the area is regulated for construction purposes. The KOSTRA report of 2004 shows that most exemptions are granted, and much indicates that construction in the beach zone will continue. It is worrying that the number of exemptions in the 100 meter belt along the sea is still too high, especially in the press areas, such as South Norway and at Oslofjorden. We also see that the pressure has moved to Rogaland and Hordaland. It is also very worrying that around 420 cultural memories disappear annually, mainly because of the pressure on the beach zone. It is therefore important to follow these developments closely in the future and to make continuous efforts to ensure the right of all persons. Some of the measures proposed for St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state, for more offensive and forward-looking coastal zone management, has been implemented. Now the remaining measures also need to be followed up. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government promises to stop the construction of the beach zone. It's promises that are binding. There is an overall committee that underlines the importance of local responsibility and autonomy. Municipalities and communities have a natural interest in ensuring good access to open-air and beach areas for their inhabitants. Therefore, municipal politicians must still have the opportunity to grant exemptions. However, the exemptions shall be more than the rule. It is important that municipalities make good spatial plans reflecting a long-term view of future generations of access to open-air and beach areas. Not all parts of our country experience the same pressure when it comes to building in the beach zone. In parts of the country where access to the beach zone is not an asset, a somewhat more flexible practice can be opened up over a period of time in line with the Law on Planning and Building. We need a management of the beach zone that provides space for expansion and value creation along the coast, while at the same time ensuring the movement of the public. The municipalities are responsible for ensuring that municipal level decisions are in line with national guidelines. The right of objection of the County and the county council shall ensure this. The County and County Council have professional competence in the environment and planning. This contributes to the improvement of municipal land plans. At the same time, they have a responsibility for not allowing construction in breach of important regional and national interests. By promoting objections, they cannot stop a plan but ensure that the plan is passed on to the Ministry of the Environment if the municipality does not take the objection into account. In the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, it is stated that most of the cases are now resolved locally by agreement between the municipality and the opposition authorities, and that is good. A majority of the Committee would therefore not restrict the freedom of State and county to promote objections to municipal level decisions that do not comply with important national or regional interests. This would also be unfortunate for reasons of legal certainty, both for landowners and others. The Plan Law Committee has proposed new planning provisions in the Planning and Building Act. The Committee expects to have this matter referred to it later this year. A majority of the Committee recommends to the Stortinget that Document No. 8:58 is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e445	First, I must say that I fully support the excellent statement made by the rapporteur. The management of the coastal zone has been the subject of debate for many years, and it has always been essential for the Workers' Party to ensure the coastal zone against privatisation and to ensure that it is accessible to the public. It's basically about who should be able to use some of the most valuable recreational areas we have, recreational areas that are under intense pressure in many places. So, of course, I, who come from Oslo, and who sees the areas around Oslo Earth, experience a completely different reality than those who live, for example. in coastal communities in North Norway, and it is clear that practice must reflect it. That is why the Government has said, among other things. in the Soria Moria Declaration, that there will be a stronger geographical differentiation in the guidelines. In Oslo, the public has very limited access to the sea. Anyone who has tried to walk along the sea knows that. Some places are almost impossible to move without climbing over fences, there are signs saying "Private area", and there are cabins and private docks. It is therefore essential to be able to prevent further degradation and privatisation of the coastal zone in such areas. So it's not like that per. Today that you do not build in the 100-metre zone in Norway. That's what you do. Municipalities have regulatory plans and it is up to municipalities to regulate areas for construction purposes. Dispensations are primarily a problem. Compensation has never been through a fully democratic planning process, taking long-term into account. Dispensations are about going beyond the plans set by the municipalities, and as pointed out correctly by the case-rapporteur, KOSTRA figures show very clearly that most of the dispensation requests are accepted, including in the press areas, and there are areas around the Oslofjorden, in the South and, in fact, in Rogaland and Hordaland as well. Beaches that are built-in are difficult for the public to win back. It's here that we build large-scale areas that are of great value, even for those who come after us. It is largely through dispensations, without proper planning processes at the back, and despite a general ban on construction in the 100-metre zone. And it's a construction ban that I feel is very much in agreement about. For those who are concerned with the democratic perspectives of this, I am not so sure that such a type of coastal zone management is particularly democratic. The Workers' Party and the rest of the majority of the Committee believe that mechanisms must be in place to ensure that important national interests are taken into account. And the county and county rights of objection are such a mechanism. The county has professional competence in the environment and planning. It's not that their objections are based on coincidences and conjecture, which you can get the impression that someone thinks. As the rapporteur also emphasised, the county has no opportunity to stop a plan, but they have the opportunity to bring it on to the Ministry of the Environment. Then I can't dare to give a brief consideration to the comments of the Progress Party on local democracy. So they're worried that a process that erodes local democracy bit by bit will lead to a falling interest in local politics. I have to say that I think it is a little strange that it comes from a party that otherwise spends a lot of time and effort arguing for solutions that will clear the municipalities for important welfare tasks. Government parties have placed public access to sea and beach high on the agenda. It's not just about a strict beach zone management. It also involves a number of other measures, such as reintroducing legal assistance to municipalities in need of assistance to protect their coastal zone and the purchase of attractive coastal areas for public use, as has been done on Bygdøy. How the beach zone is managed reflects in many ways what kind of society we want. For us in the Workers' Party, and for the rest of the majority of the Committee, it is absolutely essential that the beach zone should belong to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e468	We have long seen and are seeing new examples of local politicians in all parties being very frustrated by the State's intervention in municipal land-disposal decisions in the coastal zone. Many local politicians feel that they are deprived of almost all the right to self-determination in matters related to the management of the beach zone. It must be said that today’s current coastal zone policy is a very strong support to local self - control. The point of progress is, unlike, inter alia: the parties to the government, in the opinion that the municipalities themselves are the most suitable for managing their own beach area. It should therefore be for each municipality, in our view, to take final decisions in planning and regulatory matters without the ability of the overall authorities to stop a municipal decision that is in line with the applicable laws and regulations. Municipal autonomy and municipal autonomy are central concepts of Norwegian administration. It is quite rhetorical in all parties to strengthen municipal autonomy. But when it comes to the problem, there is often a great distance between words and action. A good example of a lack of respect for municipal autonomy in practice is precisely land management in the coastal zone. The eagerness of the central authorities is often great after interfering in the municipal proceedings concerning regulations and measures in the 100-metre belt. I myself have spoken to a number of frustrated local politicians who are upset that the County is constantly intervening in municipal decisions and permits for measures in the 100-metre belt. This is a state supremacy towards the municipalities which, according to the view of the Progress Party, is not in any way in line with the cross-political expressed desire for increased and strengthened municipal self-determination. The Party trusts that the individual coastal community itself has sufficient competence and discretion to determine what may be permitted and what cannot be permitted by measures in the 100 metre belt of the coastal zone within its own municipal boundaries. It's really strange that there's no greater hearing for such a view in this room when it comes to local democracy. The increasingly restrictive coastal zone policy pursued in Norway is, in my view, too nuanced and too one-track. Of course, it is fully possible to find a reasonable balance between continued expansion in the 100 metre belt and consideration for the free movement of the public. Of course, the free movement of the public and the consideration of private property must be carefully weighed up against each other in matters relating to action in the coastal zone. Just in this balance between private and public, I believe that local knowledge and local discretion are of great importance and should be respected by general government bodies. I live in Southland myself. I have a lot of nice archipelago, and I use the archipelago a lot myself for boat life, cabin life and recreation. But let's say that there are still some areas along the south coast where it is pointless not to allow any future expansion, because there are some areas that the general public never uses and which are not at all suitable for recreation or general traffic. Therefore, in many such coastal areas, local judgement should be decisive on how the areas of the coastal zone are disposed of and not at all rigid national provisions. The Progress Party strongly trusts that local discretionary practice in the field of coastal zone policy is the best. We also believe that it is completely wrong to say that there is a liberal practice of exemptions in the beach zone, although three out of four applications for exemptions are granted. These derogations are likely to apply to minor measures in relation to the already existing building mass in the 100 metre belt. It would make no sense to pursue a more restrictive policy of dispensation, which would therefore mean refusing to authorise any necessary renovation or upgrading of buildings and structures in the coastal zone, which might thus have remained standing and due. Very few exemptions that I know about apply to new buildings in the beach zone. Here it seems to be a misunderstanding outside and going. Dispensations given by municipalities from the general construction ban in Section 17-2 of the Planning and Building Act are often misunderstood to the point that this applies to new buildings. But that makes it very rare. In any case, the Progress Party believes that the municipalities themselves should have the right to manage the coastal zone. We have full confidence that the municipalities themselves will be the best managers of their own coastline, for the benefit of both the free movement of the public and tourism, private owners and society as a whole. Since the time has come, I will take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals which the Progress Party shares with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e487	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. 1 and 2 and, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e490	On the right, we want municipalities to have the opportunity to find flexible, locally adapted solutions and to grant exemptions from the building ban in the beach zone. State authorities must be able to verify the exemption from the building ban in the coastal zone where it can be demonstrated that such derogation significantly impairs the right of all persons in the area. On this basis, we support the proposals in the vote that we are with the Progress Party, but we support the other two proposals from the Progress Party. We want to change the Planning and Building Act from the right to make it easier for municipalities to exercise local political judgement within spatial planning. But when one hears the debate, and with experience from the proceedings here, it seems that it is now inscribed in the consciousness of the majority parties that most of the so-called common sense is strongly concentrated here on the Lion's Hill. It doesn't believe anything in the right. There's a lot of common sense gathered here, preserved, but I think where people live, where people live, and where they want to evolve in the future, it's certainly also a lot of common sense. When I hear the statements here from the case rapporteur and from the Labour Party, I get the impression that you have forgotten that there is no extenuating pressure that characterizes most of our dear fatherland. We have a coastline in this country that in length corresponds to two laps around the Earth, and in many of these areas our nature is created so that if one moves a hundred meters from the shoreline, one risks falling outside on the other side. It is not the pressure that is primarily the problem here. But I feel that we are subjected to a significant degree of symbolism policy, where too much is chosen to set aside the common sense. You can refer to the KOSTRA reporting and to the acceptance of most of the exemptions. Yes, indeed, it would just be missing! If you look at what's coming out of the report, you'll find that most of the applications deal with purely de minimis issues that won't destroy the public's ability to use the coastal area to some degree. When it is also said from the case rapporteur and from the Workers' Party that most of the exemptions are granted, it means that they have lost confidence in their own system, i.e. those who are set to exercise discretion and who are to deal with the waiver applications. Then it means that one has forgotten the times when it was actually that one should more politically see society from below and up, which has been an expressed goal in various consultations that I record some parties carry out around the country. I think that in the future we will have to reduce the right of objection. We have examples in this country that even where the County and the county have agreed to adapt to change, it is also being tested. Then we realize that in this political area, until those degrees are top-down and centralized. We have also registered – and registered with concern – the signals that have come from among others. the Minister for the Protection of the Environment to exempt municipalities from the possibility of granting exemptions. Something like that would simply be a serious estimate of local self-government. We have great faith in local government as it is quite beautifully represented in the committee position, where the representative of the Central Party Ola Borten Moe is quoted. But we realize that the times have changed. And I see the first two things we have on the agenda here in Stortinget today, suggesting that both local democracy and not least coastal development opportunities are coming up with rather tight times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e505	Ivar Kristiansen from the Right ended his post by delivering some relatively powerful kick to the Center Party and predict dark times for both local self-government and coastal development with the new government. I have to repeat that I find it difficult to see any major change in the course that this government has in these two policy areas, compared to the one that the previous government had in exactly the same areas, even when the Right sat with the Council of State. The Soria Moria Declaration states that there should be geographically differentiated management of the beach zone. It also states that there should be a stricter practice in those areas where the greatest pressure is placed on development. I think that makes sense, because we know that in parts of the country there is a problem that large parts of the beach zone are built. Not least in the Oslo area and parts of the South, the coastal zone is built to such an extent that it poses a problem for public access to this important resource. Of course, the Storting must take inwards and try to do something reasonable with it in cooperation with the Government. But it is also such that conditions in this country are very different. In other places, it's both right and sensible to build up into the beach zone, and you have to keep doing that. In some places it may be necessary to extend into the beach zone, such as: in parts of the West where there is a hundred metres between the coastal zone and the mountain. There's nowhere else to build. In other places, the coastal zone can be just developed to ensure that new activities, value creation and workplaces are put in place. In many parts of this country, recreational activities are a very important industry, and, of course, they must continue to have a framework that allows them to do so. The main challenge in the future will be to balance this in a sensible way. Proposals are now being made by the proposers to reduce the state's ability to raise objections. For my own part and for the Central Party, I have to say that I do not experience today's practice and today's legislation as a big problem. Nor am I of those who perceive the practice of meeting dispensations as very problematic. In parts of the country, it actually makes sense, although it doesn't have to be in all parts of the country. I look forward to the State Council and the Government at a later stage presenting to the Stortinget a good plan for how to balance and take care of these two considerations. And I feel sure that what is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, namely that there should be geographical differentiation, that there should be more stringent in the areas of pressure, will be the basis for this proposal. Then, of course, it will also be that the support beam will have to be the local self-government for land management in the beach zone in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e516	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement, which in a good way reflects the majority's views on this matter. Our coastal areas are of great value to the outdoors, so it is an objective that the coastal zone should be accessible to the public. To achieve this goal, the 100 meter rule has to be enforced. It is worrying that the expansion of the beach zone continues. It shows that there is a need to keep up and intensify efforts, not to let go. The number of exemptions gives rise to concern, not least in the press areas. However, not all exemptions are a problem, as has been well explained today, for there is often talk of smaller cases where it makes sense to grant exemptions. The previous government provided a wide range of measures to ensure the coastal zone for the public in St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005 on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom. Several of the announced measures in the notification are in progress and it is now important to follow up the remaining ones. The policy in this area must be based on recognition of the importance of local responsibility and self-government. Environmental policy loses its legitimacy and weight if dictated from above. It shall therefore be possible to grant exemptions, but in substantively important cases the exemption shall be the exception, not the rule. It is important to form a policy based on the fact that in large parts of the country there is less pressure and therefore a basis for granting more exemptions than in the press areas. Where the beach zone is not a scarce area, there is more room for dispensation and flexibility than it is in our press areas. The left opposes the proposal to restrict the right of objection of the county council and county council to municipal planning and land decisions, as proposed in this case. I would like to stress that most of the cases are resolved locally by agreement between the local authority and the opposition authority. It's the main picture, and it has to be the goal that it's the same in the future. However, it is important to ensure that regional and national interests are safeguarded in this interaction, as stressed by this government and the previous governments. I do not want, as some have suggested, to deprive the municipalities of their possibility of granting a derogation, and I hope that the Council of State will use this debate to confirm that such a proposal will not be promoted by the Government either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e533	In the view of the Government, the right to raise objections should not be restricted. The government sees the scheme as necessary to ensure important overall interests, such as: the protection of the coastal zone. Municipalities are responsible for the fact that municipal level decisions are in line with general guidelines. The county council and the county council shall participate in the planning and may, if necessary, promote objections in order to ensure that the plans are consistent with national and important regional interests. The Ministry of the Environment deals with only 30 to 40 of the 2 000 to 3 000 regulatory plans and municipal plans adopted annually. That means 1 to 2 pst. the number of plan items comes to the Ministry of the Environment. For me, it shows that local self-government works in practice, and that we must not fall for the temptation to overdramatize and say that 1-2 pst. of the number of cases means that local self-government is at risk. It's not like that. However, it is important that we have a system that also ensures that the plans are consistent with national and often important regional interests. National considerations are communicated inter alia. from the Storting through the processing of the Storing messages. It happened, for example. Last spring the Storting treated St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005 on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the State. This Communication mentions, inter alia: the need for an offensive coastal zone policy. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has given a clear signal to stop the construction of the beach zone. The Plan Law Committee has proposed a new part of the Planning and Building Act, and the Ministry of the Environment, as previously informed to the Stortinget, aims to promote a legislative proposal during the year. The Plan Law Committee suggests that access to objections be retained, but clarified in the law. In addition, the sample suggests that the construction ban in the 100 metre belt along the sea is tightened somewhat and that the conditions for exemption become clearer. New rules on the beach zone will therefore be prioritised in the ministry's work on legislative changes. So I want quite briefly to make a little clarification. As far as applications for construction in the beach zone are concerned, we know that in the last few years, 75 pst. of them granted. I would also like to make it clear that from 2003 onwards this report covers only new buildings. So when it comes to changing a window or something at times in the debate, there was a change in 2003: the report includes new buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e550	It was interesting to listen to the statements of the Council of State, but there was nothing surprising at the post. I would like to point out that the central government of the Municipal Councils made a decision in 2004, it was well that the county office had to be deprived of the opportunity to review local political discretion. I assume that the Council of State is familiar with that. Furthermore, it is for municipalities to be given more decision-making powers at the expense of the State. There are signals from the KS that go all the way across the evolution that the Council of State is now warning. I would like to put this into question: why does the Council of State consider the municipalities so unfit to increase the right of self-determination in cases of dispensation in relation to actions in the coastal zone? Because it's really what the Council's posts are about -- distrust of local discretion. I expect a very good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e559	At first I would like to say that I think it is good that the representative was not surprised by my answer. This shows that there are teams in the Soria Moria Declaration and that what we promise we will keep. In addition, I have to say that I believe that today's system, where the county council plays a role in complaints, is an important and good system, precisely because we are to take care of regional and national concerns. It's a system that, in my opinion, actually works well as it is today. Experience has shown that local authorities sometimes need an agency to protect national interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e566	Governments have expressed themselves relatively healthy in the work of the Planning Committee. One of the signals that has come is that the Council of State opens up a total ban on building in the beach zone. Does she stand by such an attitude? Is she determined that she will also consider proposing to exempt municipalities from exemption from the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e571	What the government has been busy about is making sure that we have a more offensive beach zone policy. We're going to do everything we can to prevent the beach zone from being built down. It is a policy that you have wanted to be led from this house for many years. The government is going through the proposal for a new part of the plan through the possibility of restricting the right of derogation, and we have said that if it turns out that the municipalities are unable to provide decisions consistent with the national leadership, we will consider preventing the municipalities from having this possibility of exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e576	Local democracy is important. Local responsibility and local self-government are important for the Christian People's Party, and I think it's a cross-political consensus on that. Earlier in this debate, there are questions of common sense being evenly distributed. I think we can establish that it is. The knowledge is evenly distributed throughout our country. Nevertheless, different judgements are used, both in press areas and in non-press areas. My question to the Council of State will then be: When we have national guidelines, what can the Council of State do to ensure that within the same type of area, whether it is a press area or a non-press area, there is some sense of the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e585	Well, it's always hard to define it very clearly. I am concerned that judgement will always be part of decisions to be taken. What is important to us is to clarify as clearly as possible the conditions under which different decisions are to be made. That's the clarification that we'll be clearer on in the draft law that will come in the course of the year, and that the Storting will be presented to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e590	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e595	The Council of State says we should not dramatize in this matter. So, the drama is happening locally. The development of local communities along our coasts does not receive much help from central authorities. As has been said several times today, the Soria Moria Declaration contains great words about local self-government – and should be the very name of predictability. In our communities, however, the opposite is true – unforeseeable and overrun. Our coast has great values and is to be cared for by the public. I have an example from the municipality of Tjøme, which wants to further develop the municipality with new and more jobs within the largest industry on the island – tourism. They want to avoid moving out of the municipality. They want more jobs, and they want to get rid of increasing unemployment. These are important local issues that local politicians are working on and that have a lot of support for the local population. What else will they live on – three farms, four fishermen? It's not going to keep you alive in a municipality. The municipality must evolve in line with society. It's big tenants from Oslo together with the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government who are able to stop the development on Timeme and in District Norway, as I experience it. There is a clear overrun of local democracy. But there can be no doubt as to what the Progress Party wants. It strengthens the autonomy of municipalities by delegating local power and decision-making powers. It becomes particularly worrying when the exercise of discretion from the State – i.e. the bureaucracy – can overcome the discretion of the local politicians, the elected ones, in each municipality. I would also like to stress that the Progress Party is a major supporter of all-man rights. It is important to ensure the area along the beach zone and free movement. The Progress Party fully trusts that municipalities can manage their own coastline for the benefit of the municipality, the public, tourism, the landowners and society as a whole – and in a future perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e608	For the past 25 to 30 years, local politicians have gained less and less autonomy in terms of their areas. This applies to beach areas as well as other areas. Unfortunately, the interest in participating in local policies is falling. One reason is likely to be that local politicians get less and less to say in the management of municipal areas. It's going to be diluted. In the coastal municipalities, the County Environmental Protection Department has been seen as the authority that continues to make headway in the wheels of municipal decisions. We, who have been involved in local politics, are all aware of the reasons for rejection: the measure is in the beach zone. The measure creates precedent. It can be seen from the highway. The measure punctures the landscape. And so on. The ingenuity of the County Environmental Protection Agency for Rejection continues to increase and prevents the proper use of the areas of the municipalities. After the county council was deprived of the hospital duties, the bureaucrats have clearly found out that land planning in the municipality is to be a bet area. In premises that had no regional or national interest in the past, the county municipality generally gave local politicians the final word. Now the situation is completely different. The bureaucrats lift the whip and threaten to object to the measures, even if they do not have an interest beyond the scope of the measure concerned. The party strongly opposes the fact that the local court has almost been wiped out. Complained local decisions usually end with the County converting them. Among the local politicians from most parties, there is a very great irritation about the lack of self-determination over the areas of the municipality. As mentioned earlier in this debate, in April 2004, the Central Board of Governors of the KS decided that the county office must be deprived of the opportunity to review local political discretion and that the municipality must be given more decision-making powers at the expense of the State of Kämmeren. When you think about KS being made up of politicians from all parties, you should agree on this proposal – which is probably not. The Progress Party also promoted a private legislative proposal in 2004 on the same issue, a proposal that only got its own votes. Minister for the Environment Helen Bjørnøy has now asked the environmental protection authorities to tighten up further by refusing any construction in the coastal zone. The coast from the Swedish border to Lillesand is in several places heavily covered with cabins. In the rest of the country, and certainly also in that coastal zone, there are endless areas that would be suitable for cabins and leisure homes without harming the public. In many cases, the public is used as an alibi to refuse action in the coastal zone. The Progress Party will work hard to defend the autonomy of municipalities in land matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e627	I think there is a fairly broad consensus in this room that environmental considerations should be given attention also in the beach zone. When the law was passed in 1965, however, it was agreed that a right of dispensation should be granted locally, so that the municipalities could individually assess each case against what was the main purpose of the law. This exemption does so, for example: possible for a municipality where there is an old industrial area situated in the beach zone, to say that in order to transform this old industrial area and clean it up, it would be environmentally sensible to turn it into a cabin area, for example, or also into a residential area. Therefore, an exemption has been granted. Dispensation has also been granted because in large parts of our country there are fjords – and not least the Minister for the Environment should be aware of it – where it can be a very short area from the edge of the beach and until it becomes quite uninhabitable. This is why it has also been said that in those municipalities you can have a slightly greater freedom to dispose of land. So it could be an island where it's actually not habitable other than in the beach zone. That is why I think it makes sense to pass on the main aims of the law. Of course, environmental considerations should be taken into account in the coastal zone, but it should also always be clear that there should be a derogation that municipalities have because they have the primary responsibility for land management in Norway. That's where the elected ones are. The County Environmental Protection Department is certainly brilliant – at least it seems as if the Minister for the Environment is very excited about it – but it is not elected by the people. Popular control of land disposal is also essential. I was actually quite relieved when I read the Evening Post on January 31st this year, when Ola Borten Moe, the Central Party's environmental figures, said: ‘It is totally inappropriate to take from the municipalities land management in the coastal zone.’ It's time, it's very wise. That is quite in line with what I mean. The general rule is there, but the municipalities in those parts of the country where the pressure is less must of course have the opportunity to dispose of it themselves. The Minister for the Environment released the cat from the bag in his reply to the representative Kristiansen, where she does not now rule out that municipalities can be deprived of this exemption in the future – if they do not behave properly. And then it gets stuck in the loose air also after this debate: what do the red-greens want? Is it impractical, as Borten Moe says, to inculcate it, or will you consider it? If someone at the bottom can figure out what's lying there, it'll be very interesting. If that doesn't happen, it's also talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e649	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Thus, no clarification was found. [[Footing, see page 2288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e665	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e681	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes per party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines by up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e690	The proposal we are considering now deals with a Document No. 8 proposals for a single Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates. Let me first say that I am pleased with the attention given to renewable energy and the focus on renewable energy production in Norway. Such a focus on the use of environmentally friendly and renewable energy sources has not always been the case, if we are to say a little cautious. I think we all agree that there is a need for a lift and a completely different focus on the production of new renewable energy than what has been the case until now. It is linked both to a power situation that requires new production to be realised, and not least to the need for new power generation to take place in a sustainable way. For this reason, it has also been emphatically established by government teams that a system is to be put in place to stimulate the production of renewable energy in Norway. There has gradually been a lot of time in this hall on this matter. I believe it is widely known that the negotiations with Sweden to establish a common Norwegian-Swedish market did not lead. There was, as has been explained on several occasions, a context of disagreement about the burden-sharing between Sweden and Norway. On the part of Sweden, it was imperative that Norway and Sweden assume equal payment obligations. It may seem unreasonable when Sweden has twice as many inhabitants to distribute the bill. In plain text it would mean that a Norwegian consumer would have to pay twice as much as a Swedish consumer. It is important to remember that the cost of introducing green certificates was something that the power customers would pay. If we in the Workers' Party were to contribute to putting such an additional burden on the consumer, we had to know that the system worked. And by ‘functioning’ we believe that the system had to lead to more renewable power production in Norway. It is often argued that the additional bill for the consumer will be compensated by the pressure of new power generation on prices downwards. It is true in itself, but it requires, despite the fact that we have a certain degree of power exchange, that a substantial part of the new production takes place in Norway. With a common Norwegian-Swedish market, it is likely that we would be left with half of the bill, while a large part of the power development took place in Sweden. It's not a desired scenario for the Workers' Party. There is in no way any secret that there was a strong desire on the part of the Workers' Party and the other government parties to create a common Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates. There have been clear expressions repeatedly. That's why you had intense conversations with Sweden and had some overtime negotiations until it was no longer possible to get there. In other words, it was not that there was a lack of will on the part of the government parties that made this not happening. The fact is that the outcome of the negotiations we had left behind was not good enough. It wouldn't give us the effect we wanted – as simple and as difficult as that. For us – and I expect that it’s an opinion that most people can share – it’s not that green certificates are a goal in themselves. The aim is more renewable energy production and that it takes place in a way that does not burden the consumer more than is necessary. With the demands made by Sweden, we would not achieve it in a satisfactory way. That is why the negotiations with Sweden did not lead, and that is why an alternative renewable energy investment has been announced, which should be at least as good as a Norwegian-Swedish certificate market. There shall be a use of instruments to ensure that new renewable energy production is realised and that it takes place in Norway. There is therefore no news that there will be no single Norwegian-Swedish certificate market in this round. But that doesn't mean that the focus on renewable energy is on the shelf, on the contrary. There has been a lack of negotiation results, and a system to work is being put in place to ensure good, predictable and long-term framework conditions for the developers of renewable energy and to ensure that we have a significant deployment of renewable energy in Norway. Our position is therefore that the proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e716	Today's debate can quickly become a debate on the power situation, on deficits and on the desire to invest in renewable energy, as we heard from previous speakers. But the case illustrates most of all the action we've seen in Norwegian energy policy, where there's been a lot of talk and a lot of promises, but very little action when things are actually going to be implemented. Green certificates illustrate this in an excellent way. I hope the Labour Party understands that, because this is a matter that has had general support for Stortinget for many years. It has had general support in the energy sector, in industry, in environmental protection organisations. For all those who are actually going to live with renewable energy, green certificates have been lifted as the good thing that enables us to realize big projects for the cheapest possible money. So you can see that it's barely six months before the red-green government throws all the dreams in the mud. The matter is scrambled, it is justified by estimates, and it is impossible to verify the explanations provided by the Government. The figures they provide on how much it costs are not related. The Prime Minister stood in this room and gave the impression that if the electricity price was 25 cents, green certificates would cost the consumer 15 cents, an electricity price for the consumer would be 40 cents, about 40 cents. ten times as much as everyone has thought that green certificates would cost the consumer. Now I see that some people have later gone out and explained the Prime Minister's claims, but that shows that the reasons the Government has had have been very bad. Not least I think this shows that the government was terribly bad at negotiating, because this with green certificates is something that everyone in the red-green parties has said that we have to get this in place as early as possible and as quickly as possible. When they suddenly get the chance to negotiate for themselves, it gets jagged. But you should have known about this already when you started looking at the Soria Moria statement, because it's also ambiguous about whether you want a green certificate market. It's on no other point than green certificates that the government actually has a subsidiary position. It says a little bit about the will that was. And the doubt we had was justified. Then it becomes a little hollow when Eva Nielsen boasts of the salmon case and says, "We stand by our decisions." Yes, the Labour Party has participated on a number of occasions in deciding that there should be a green certification market, but they do not stand by that decision. Now the red-greens promise that we'll get the time's bet on renewable energy, only they'll think a little bit about it. Yes, since the end of February they have said it takes a few weeks. It was supposed to come before Easter, so it would come shortly after Easter, and it would be before 1 May, and now it would be nice to come on Friday. And then they say, this is going to come so fast that you can just start building. Yeah, it's just a week away. But the problem for the red-green government is that Energy-Norway has learned that they shouldn't trust promises, because they've heard this so many times before. They will trust decisions. Let me make a couple of quotes. Sylvia Brustad, former Spokesman for the Workers' Party, said on 17 December 2002 in this Chamber: ‘A lot can be done to give more power to the market.’ Further: «The introduction of technology-neutral support schemes and mandatory green certificates for new renewable energy must be central to such a strategy.» Two years later, they had begun to become quite ‘other’, as we say on the Jären – impatient. She said, ‘The Green Certificate Scheme is urgently needed. I don't think the pace of the government in this matter is particularly impressive. The working party believes that green certificates will be a very important tool in the development of new renewable energy. We are impatient to put this system into use." It was very well said, but the problem is that it really hurts most of her own sitting government. Synnueve Konglevoll of the Workers' Party referred to an ECON report that showed that the investment in renewable energy in Norway would be very profitable, would provide many annual works and would probably make the investments happen in Norway, not in Sweden, as the previous speaker claimed. And she said, ‘The Working Party believes that offensive policies in relation to the introduction of green certificates are good energy policies, they are good environmental policies, and they are good rural policies.The Working Party would primarily want the Stortinget to adopt on 1 January 2005 as the date for the introduction of a mandatory green certification market. That should be possible.» Now we know that this probably never happens. The Progress Party and the other opposition parties promoted Document No. The 8-proposal to stress that the Storting wants a scheme of green certificates to show that the decisions that the Storting has repeatedly taken in the past actually had a validity that the Red-Green Government has chosen to overlook through poor negotiations with its social-democratic friends in the East. The matter has been so demanding that it has taken Stortinget almost three months to deal with it. When the Government has now promised that a great commitment will be made to renewable energy, we know that it will be dealt with in December 2006 at the earliest, if we are going to deal with it as seriously as this Document No. The 8th proposal. Then the red-green government has already postponed its commitment to renewable energy for at least one year. I refer to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e758	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e761	After the posts of Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen, it's actually not much more to add than to put an exclamation mark. I can agree with both the assessments and, unfortunately, the characteristics that the representative came up with. The last day I got a question at a political meeting about what the red-green government has done in the field of energy policy. I had to think quite thoroughly about it to figure out if it was something. There were two things I had to answer. One was that they ‘scraped’ the green certificates, which they were very impatient about when they themselves were in opposition. And then it was that you've been in favour of strange cleaning requirements in terms of gas power, which will then delay the gas power, and the government is not willing to decide if they will pay the entire additional bill for, so that we risk increasing the imbalance that is now in the power market. I think that's a pretty tough assessment, but unfortunately it's a correct assessment of what's happened in the energy field in the six months that the red-greens have been in government. In the case of green certificates, the most regrettable situation is that there are an incredible number of projects outside that are ready-to-use, with mini-power plants, micro-power plants, small-power plants, sun, wind and, above all, bioenergy – for example. using the huge resource we have with trees in Norway. It's actually the way that the forest spends twice as much as we take out of it this year. In Sweden, it is possible to exploit this resource in a completely different way. All of this is now waiting for the government to come up with a system and a scheme that is at least as good as the green certificates. Just take Middle Norway: you're facing a decision-making crisis in energy. There's no power crisis so far. But there can be a power crisis if the government during the spring is not able to make a good deal of progress in the field of renewable energy, and as soon as possible, it warns that Statoil can set off on the Tjeldbergodden without making the strange demands – a clean-up period, on which the Minister of Oil and Energy has been involved. Then it can be made clear in 2009. In 2009 6 TWh can be added from this plant. But in mid-Norway, only Nord-Trøndelag E-verk has over 3 TWh with renewable energy that they're waiting to start. I had a conversation with the director there not long ago. He said that now we are ready to kick the earth and get started with renewable projects, but the government is waiting. The Minister of Oil and Energy has stated that when the green certificates were ‘scraped’ – after the Prime Minister also, in my opinion, gave a distorted presentation in the Storting of the price for customers – a new system would be introduced very quickly, before Easter. Then it was just after Easter. In fact, Easter was late this year, but now it is at the end of May, and the government has not come forward with anything. What happens then? Yes, many renewable projects are waiting. They are waiting and waiting, and the imbalance in the Norwegian market is only getting worse and worse. The energy nation of Norway is now importing 9 TWh on an annual basis. Only that with renewable projects around it could have covered this, if the government had come on the road here. After four years in Stortinget, both as Minister for the Environment and as Minister for Industry, and listening to the strong results that came from politicians from the government parties when it came to this with green certificates – despite the fact that we were negotiating a bill – I have to say that I think it is quite amazing that nothing has now been done here. I also think it shows that there is a government that is not able to coordinate, and that is characterized by internal discussions about this, which then delays what are good renewable projects. But it's going to be exciting to see what the Minister of Oil and Energy has to come with today, and get a clarification on when this is to be promoted, and what it contains.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e780	Much of the world’s energy consumption is based on consumption of non-renewable resources and leads to large greenhouse gas emissions. Norway is already a major exporter of energy in the form of oil and gas. We must also aim to become a net exporter of environmentally friendly force. In this way, we can help reduce climate emissions and environmental problems. The Christian People's Party will have forward-looking energy solutions. It is important to increase power generation based on new renewable energy sources. We need to reduce the use of electricity for heating, and we need to increase flexibility in what energy sources we use for heating. This means that we need a shift in energy use and production. If we are to increase power generation from renewable sources, more emphasis needs to be placed on energy saving. The use of waterborne heat needs to be increased. It can be combined with district heating, heat pumps, electric boilers or biofuels. We need to focus more on wind power, solar energy, tidal, saltwater and wave power. We need to modernise and upgrade hydropower plants and deploy micro, mini and small power plants. Through the EU renewable directive, we have committed ourselves to increasing the share of renewable power generation. A green certification market would be a good tool to achieve this objective. Green certificates are market-based support schemes to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy. Green certificates would also be an important industrial policy tool for our districts. It would have ensured increased power availability and more jobs related to new renewable energy. Because the matter is so important, it has also been working for several years with a common Swedish-Norwegian certification market. All parties agree – yes, the Soria Moria declaration also agrees. When the government says no to green certificates, it also refuses to increase the investment in new renewable energy. For many renewable energy enterprises, it will not pay off without the electricity certificates. The national association of energy companies confirms that many projects will now be scrapped. It will increase both the uncertainty and the risk of price rise. Norway is now referred to as an energy brake and an environmental sink. For the Christian People's Party, which wants to invest in more renewable energy and districts, there is a very disappointing decision taken by the Government. The government argues that the scheme would be too expensive for Norwegian consumers and provide too little new Norwegian electricity. We cannot see that the Government has provided sufficient evidence for the decision to reject a single certificate market. The rapporteur said today that the results of the negotiations were not good enough. It must also be possible for us in the other parties to be informed of this outcome. Most energy professionals claim that the burden-sharing would be quite similar between Sweden and Norway, but with some added burden on the Swedish household. We therefore want the negotiations to be resumed. An overall energy industry also believes that the certification market is the best solution for increasing the investment in new renewable energy. The government has long announced that it will soon present to the Storting its alternative investment in new renewable energy. We're still waiting. We've been waiting 12 weeks. Today there have been 12 weeks since the Government of the Minister of Oil and Energy sent out the press release ‘Common certification system is not feasible – too expensive for Norwegian consumers’. We read in the press release: ‘The Minister for Oil and Energy will present as soon as possible the framework for a reinforced commitment to new heat and energy production based on renewable energy sources.’ Twelve weeks have been used. Twelve weeks divided by three – compared to the lots – are four weeks. Four weeks each batch has had to try to find a solution. Neither individually, nor as a government, have they been able to come up with anything. The government has promised a scheme that is at least as good as a common green certificate market. There is no doubt that there will be a second best solution, but it is important that an alternative scheme is as good as possible – that it is long-term, predictable, and that it is worth investing. The Christian People's Party is very disappointed with this government's lack of commitment to new renewable energy so far. We are calling for more action in a field as important as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e804	The most interesting thing about this debate is of course not that we are discussing green certificates again – it is a debate we have had many times. I think the indirect admission that lies in fighting so hard for green certificates is at least equally interesting, because here it is said that a purely market-based electricity supply system needs corrections and needs incentives to work. You recognize that you have too little power, and you recognize that you have too little environmentally friendly power production. If you look at what green certificates are, it's essentially a short cut in the market to make parts of the production more profitable. I also record that there is a considerable confusion about what green certificates really are for something, and what productions green certificates would have supported. It's a clean support system for electricity, not for heat. That is why I believe it will be a short cut when the representative Børge Burnde said instead that we should use the resources in the forest. Norwegian forest grows twice as fast as we take out the resources, so we have to put in place green certificates. Electricity from the forest is very low. We produce mainly heat, and heat would not be included in a green certificate market. In any case, there won't be a common green certification market with the Swedes, and it might as well, because it gives us the opportunity to put in place schemes that ensure Norwegian interests better. It gives us the opportunity to put in place a better and more holistic focus on heat and bioenergy. It gives us a better opportunity to check the cost-benefit function, both in relation to which productions you should have in place, and not least in relation to ensuring that the money required and to be used goes to investments in Norway and not abroad. This is the way to always assess the diet-benefit function. When the Progress Party here goes to the frontal attack and says that there have been bad dealers, I think it is a bad claim. Is it the case that you should accept all claims from abroad, meet all claims and submit them to the Stortinget and say that you have been good dealers? Of course, it is the way to assess the cost of a scheme and see if it is appropriate. If that's not the case, you obviously have to find other arrangements. That is what I believe the government has done in this matter. You're asking for maths and you're saying that you've got a bad answer to the maths, and that this is not related. My experience is that here the Energy and Environment Committee has organised consultations with the Council of State, and all the questions that have been asked have been answered. In fact, I have not experienced for my own part that the representative Solvik-Olsen has put the Council of State to the wall once. A solution with Sweden would have been expensive. The alternative use of these funds will be made in a way that is more beneficial to Norway. Of course, we're waiting for the alternative bet from the government. I trust that it will come quickly, and that they will meet the expectations created – not least by the Prime Minister, who said from this chair that the scheme will be at least as good as a common green certification scheme with Sweden. I trust that, and I have full confidence that it will be implemented. The representative Børge Burnde is right in one thing, and it's obviously urgent to get this in place. Many projects are waiting for the framework conditions to be clarified. But then it is also that twelve weeks waiting time is better than four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e821	Norway needs new energy production, and we need more renewable energy production. We know that a scheme of green certificates would provide what we need, namely more renewable energy production. Against this background, it is incomprehensible and unfortunate that the planned cooperation with Sweden was cut off, and that the government buried the idea of a common certificate market between Norway and Sweden. The price change is not well-founded. All indications are that the collapse of the negotiations is due to internal problems in the Government to reach agreement, and too low a level of ambition in terms of the amount of renewable energy that they want to have in the certification system with Sweden. The government says that the scheme with Sweden would be unbalanced, unbalanced and in Norway's disfavor. Most other actors believe that the scheme would have fit Norway very well. The comments from the Swedish authorities also confirm that they met traders from Norway who did not want a solution and who were heading for a breach. When the negotiations collapsed, the oil and energy minister announced an arrangement that would first be even better than green certificates. It was later modified to just as well. We have gone and waited for this arrangement to come and have repeated assurances that the arrangement was just around the corner. For 12 weeks it has been promised that it will come soon. It reminds me of the sign that hung in a pub, where it said: Free beer tomorrow! When one came back, the message was the same. So is the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Government. They've said that something's right around the corner, but we still haven't seen the results. Now it remains to be seen whether the promise of investing in renewable energy was just a happy hour at Soria Moria! It is important that the option that comes does not only support Enova and households for the purchase of various equipment. Support for energy production must be provided, and there must be a robust and long-term approach so that actors know what they have to deal with. These ingredients were there at green certificates. That's why it was so stupid that this scheme was scrapped. It is especially that the most prominent thing about the government's energy policy is that it does not deliver a result in an area where everything was ready to deliver, because the previous government had made a scheme that was completely finished. It is especially that one cannot deliver in an area where there was broad agreement in this hall that a desired green certificates. The center party and SV have been the most impatient. In this area, we experience that we have a majority government that does not deliver what a majority in this Chamber wants, because an internal cannot agree. It is not too late to turn around yet, but the debate today and the statements by the rapporteur suggest, unfortunately, that this will not happen. While we are waiting for framework conditions that can trigger renewable energy production, that day is drawing closer – unfortunately – to where mobile gas power plants are put into operation in Norway, with the blessing of SV. Those who a few years ago had suggested that an SV should be involved in the use of mobile gas power plants – which now have an environmental policy spokesperson who links themselves outside the Snow White plant – would be met with worse odds than those who are tipping that Tufte IL is going to be Norway champion in football!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e840	I very much appreciate the strong commitment that is in this room to make a strong commitment to renewable energy. It is necessary to increase energy production in Norway and, in particular, to increase the production of renewable energy. It is also necessary to stimulate the production of renewable energy. So, as many people have said, it's not enough for the market to deal with this. Economic incentives are needed in both cases, for example: wind power, parts of hydro power generation and bioenergy. Document No The 8 proposal we are considering today also shows that there is broad support in the Storting to bet on such measures. Then we can discuss the means, but the connection to this bet is given in recognition that this will cost. It will also lead to costs for consumers. It is indeed a very strong support for this. A green certification market would be fully charged to consumers and would impose significant costs on Norwegian consumers. Let it be said immediately: I should also have liked to have seen that it had been possible to reach a good common certificate market with Sweden. It was not possible to get it done. Some people in this room may feel that it is due to bad negotiations, but in reality it was that the Swedes, as I have informed several times before, decided on a level of ambition to which Norway should also commit, and they were not willing to move in relation to the starting point. This is not the case, as others have claimed – at the latest Gunnar Kvassheim – that the previous government provided a solution that this government could only adopt. There were no negotiations on the level of ambition and burden-sharing. It was actually the essential part that remained to get a green certificate market in place. There it was, too. Then it was said that it has been 12 weeks since we had to admit that it was not possible to reach a common certificate market. That's right, it's been 12 weeks. It is clear, as I said in the press release when we had to put this certificate market away, that we would return with an alternative arrangement as soon as possible. Now, of course, you can ask whether twelve weeks is short or long time to explore alternatives. The alternatives must not only be implemented but also be investigated. Given that nearly four years were spent in issuing green certificates, it is with respect to notifying twelve weeks not very long in this context. I think everyone in this room should agree that the arrangement now presented should be better than it turned out that the green certificate market was standing when it came to final negotiations, where it was not possible to obtain a result. What has the red-green government done in the field of energy policy, Børge Brende asked. We have conducted the negotiations on the green certificates on which the previous government did not target and on which the previous government had spent a long time, but on which the essential parts of the negotiations remained. We had to recognise that it was not possible to reach a goal, and we have used the twelve weeks after that to investigate alternative schemes that will be at least as good as the green certificates. There was no disagreement in the Government. I hear that claim being repeated to the boring, but there was no internal disagreement in the government that in any way led to the removal of the green certificates. It was simply not possible to agree on a scheme that we found to defend against Norwegian consumers. We have also, as Mr. Børge Brende pointed out quite correctly, and I actually thought that Mr. Børge Brende, the former Minister for the Environment, appreciated, launched a project in relation to the management of CO2 from gas power plants that have raised international awareness and that several countries are now interested in. Several countries have similar bedding projects. So neither is it, as Børge Brende claims, that there is a decision-making crisis that is why we have not put in place a situation in relation to the power crisis in Middle Norway. It is a crisis that has been announced for a long time, and that the previous government should be well aware of was during the sailing. We have a very tight schedule in relation to getting this in place. When it comes to alternative energy, it's probably worth telling us that we've expanded 0.7 TWh so far with wind power, and that's been done over the last five years. You can then wonder if the old saying that you have to raise the noise level when you have weak arguments, also in this case applies from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e870	In his introductory statement, the rapporteur said that Norway is paying the bill, while the development takes place in Sweden, with a green certificate market as it could have been negotiated. It's a fairly fresh claim, which I also suppose the government is behind. But the problem is that everyone who has calculated this and dared to get into the media with numbers has said the opposite: Norway has so many good projects, which have not yet been used, both in terms of small power, wind and bio, that we would have won out most of the Swedish projects. Ergo: We wanted to get the investments in Norway. The Minister of Energy did not clearly or wish to quantify his reasons why this would be too expensive for Norway, even though Ola Borten Moe of the Senterpartie claims the opposite. Then once again, as we have done in the committee, as we have done in the media, in question hours and in written questions: how much of the expansion would take place in Norway, how much would it take in Sweden, and how much would this cost Norwegian consumers compared to Swedish consumers? This is an important premise throughout the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e877	As I have explained earlier, it is first of all difficult to quantify exactly how much part of the expansion would have come on the Swedish side, and how much would have come on the Norwegian side. In such a single certification market, where projects are to go where they are most reasonable, projects are assumed to come first. I have previously stated that the Swedish claim was that Norway should commit to the same level of ambition that Sweden committed itself to: 12 TWh. That would lead to a double the cost per. Norwegian consumer as for a Swedish consumer. The government did not find it possible to accept such a difference in costs for Norwegian and Swedish consumers. When it comes to the proportion of production that would come in the different countries, it is, as I say, difficult to answer exactly that. But there is reason to believe that a significant part of the level of ambition to which we must have committed ourselves would have come on the Swedish side. This is due to several factors, including: lack of networks in areas where we have the greatest wind power potential. It will take considerable time to develop and put in place infrastructure in order to make those investments in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e884	We have an increasing electricity price, and this is not least because there is too little energy produced in Norway. There is a lot that is now ready for pot, and that is delayed because the oil and energy minister and the government have delayed this by ‘scraping’ the green certificates. There was one thing I forgot in my list of what the oil and energy minister has done or has not done in the field of energy. He has ‘scraped’ the green certificates, and in addition has made strange demands for gas power plants so that they are delayed and much more expensive. It is also a third thing that characterises energy policy, and it is that the Council of State owes it to previous governments on virtually every occasion. But the point is that in terms of renewable energy and everything that is now waiting, it's up to the Government. The fact that there has also been a discussion about delays can be done by the Minister of Energy himself. He himself said this would come before Easter, and then it was after Easter. When will there be a plan to solve this with renewable energy, and when will the Storting get presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e893	It's true that we have increasing power prices. It's caused by a lot of things. This is due to the high CO2 quota prices we have had in the European Union in the current winter, which we now see are reduced quite considerably. This is also due to the fact that we are importing a significant amount of energy. The green licence market would, in all likelihood, have led Norwegian consumers to join and pay for the expansion of some of the production in Sweden. Thus, we would continue to import energy, and thus continue to import energy prices. We wouldn't have gone in the direction of self-sufficiency in energy, in our opinion. In fact, there's good reason to blame former governments for the situation we've come up with. I will continue to do so, including: in the case of the situation in Central Norway, which the previous government should have taken too far. With regard to the alternative arrangement, as I said in my main post, we have spent 12 weeks investigating an ambitious arrangement with an alternative to the green certificates, which means that it is necessary to go a few rounds in relation to the EEA Legitimacy and also other matters that need to be properly addressed so that this will be a long-term and good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e903	Yes, there is a broad commitment on this issue, both in the political context and in the industry. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to treat new renewable heat and power in a non-discriminatory manner. Green heat includes all heat supplies based on renewable energy sources that do not generate net CO2 emissions. Heat delivery can be either based on biomass in the form of fuels, wood, pellets, tiles and organic waste, or on non-fuel-based technologies such as geothermal heating, solar collectors or waste heat. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to ensure as much equal conditions as possible for all new renewable energy. My question to the Council of State will then be: Can the Council of State now assure that green heat does not lose green electricity in the government's alternative bet, on which we are waiting in suspense?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e913	I agree with the representative that heating is absolutely necessary. We have to diversify our energy system more than what we've done; almost 80 pst. heating in Norwegian households comes from electricity. There is a very high share in relation to any country we can compare with, and it is necessary to achieve an energy conversion where we use bioenergy resources to a greater extent. So heat was not included in the green certification system that was provided by the previous government, nor was it part of the negotiating arrangements that we had. It would not be possible to heat into such a common certification market. That's why the government is now also working on a strong commitment to bioenergy, which is one of the areas where I think we have the greatest possibilities and the greatest potential. It can briefly be mentioned that while Sweden produces almost as much bioenergy as we produce hydropower in Norway, in Norway we produce about. 15 TWh from bioenergy, so we have a long way to go in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e920	So the line change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e925	Lack of power can help limit nutrition. The current power crisis in Central Norway, which in many ways is just the top of an iceberg, can become a serious threat to Norwegian industry and industry. And I have to say, I'm not particularly impressed with the action of the plural government in this area. It is important for Norway that we keep our position and develop resilient and renewable power generation. We have to be a transitory country for the use of electricity, and it is also important that we take care of and use, among other things. Enova and other actors to find solutions to make the most of the force available to us. Wind power is very popular. Many people want to build wind power, but we have framework conditions that aren't good enough. We are waiting for a clarification from the Government in this field. When environmental technologies are more general in nature and potential here to create new ones, we also see that wind power, as well as generating more power, can become an important export business. We're way ahead, and we have to take advantage of the possibilities that we have. But then until what this case is most focused on: green certificates. We thought it was disappointing and a defeat for the environment that the government didn't have – I don't know if it was a combination of or it was both – cork will or muscles to put in place a Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates. Many people were ready to invest in new production if this market was put in place. The investments, the plans, are now on ice, and there they are. Many people are waiting for what's going to happen. In the Christian People's Party we are impatient, we are very impatient. We haven't lost faith, but I have to say that after a while it turns out, and the government is now nagging up under our doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e936	As I said earlier, we too from the Workers' Party were somewhat disappointed that the agreement with Sweden was not working out. But we cannot agree to an agreement at any price, and we would not have done a responsible job if the answer was that we would get an increase in the electricity price that was unreasonable compared to what the Swedes had to take. Here the burden distribution was simply not good enough, and just think about how heat and electricity production is distributed in these two countries and the size of the population, to mention something. But I also have to say that I am being told about the opposition in this case, which is still standing out and talking about the pot-ready arrangement that they had in the previous government, yes, it was quite clear – yes, where is the pot-ready arrangement in this setting that we have here? They don't have a setup at all, they just stand and talk out in the loose air about a lot of things. Where is the potter's ready-to-use arrangement here? All I've heard as an alternative is that we're about to have nuclear power stations. It even says in the programme of the Progress Party that here the market is going to sort everything out, and here collective support schemes are going to go away, and then they are talking today about it being OK with green certificates! I'm totally confused, I, about the opposition. Also Børge Brende, who was in the previous government, leads a high profile here today. They made a 2003 supply announcement to the Stortinget about energy production in Norway, saying that this government is doing nothing about energy development in Norway and is not planning. However, in this 2003 communication that I referred to, it was among other things. not a single word or sentence from the previous government on the difficult situation in which Mid-Norway was. And then Børge Burnde says, "We have to take care of this in a moment!" The government has now been sitting tight for six months, and then you come here and demand that now everything should be ready for a moment! And then they have sent a message to Stortinget where they have not mentioned Mid Norway in one word. Where were the gas power plants under the previous government, when Børge Burnde sat there? Where was Kårstø, where were the plans for the Tent Goods, Forest, etc.? The current government is taking the initiative on its own initiative also for the use of gas in Norway, see below. the work started both with value creation in relation to CO2 and with gas pipelines to the South and Eastern countries. And then they have a profile today as if it's the first time we've faced these problems in Stortinget. Unheard! You should go home and see yourself in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e948	The only thing I'm sure of is that we should have done something specific about the energy situation in Norway, we should have turned off the lights in this room and went out and drank coffee instead. Because this doesn't make it any more energy. We hear that representatives from the government parties owe it to the previous government – without giving any particularly clear signals about where they want us to go. So it's still the way it's just the government that claims that most of the expansion comes in Sweden. It's just the government that claims that the price is going to be 15 cents more expensive per. kWh with green certification schemes. All the others, all the opposition parties, all the environmental protection organisations and all the financial analysts who have commented on this matter, disagree with the Government in this regard. We have also not seen any real analyses from the government that show that the government is right and everyone else is wrong. I'm afraid that the reason the government is against green certificates is that they don't want the market to make sure it's the cheapest and best projects that are realized first. I am afraid that the Government and government parties believe that they are best served that it is the Government itself that will determine which sources of energy will be supported, and that the debate on renewable energy in the future will be about whether it is bioenergy, solar energy, mini-power plants, small-power plants or wind turbines that will receive support, and that time will continue to go without producing more electricity neither in Middle Norway nor in other parts of the country – while the lights in Middle Norway are switched off and the industry is moving to Dubai. We can't be expected to be the result of the force debate we've had in recent times. Then I just want to end with a call: we need to talk more about the future and less about the past – and then the State Council of Enoxsen and Børge Burnde can when they write their memoirs, argue about which government is responsible for the power crisis. I suggest we work more on solving it and less on defining who's to blame.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e959	The Energy and Environment Committee today has an important debate – an interesting debate and a surprising debate. When the representative from the Progress Party, Solvik-Olsen, goes up here and talks about there's a lot of talk, lots of promises and little action, then you have to listen. Because there's something the Progress Party is good at, that's exactly what it is. I just want to remind you that in the last period, when the industry shut down the melting shops and sent the workers on the door without a break to sell the electricity, because it was record high power prices, it was the Progress Party that had made proposals in this room, and showed the government confidence and support to continue its energy policy, its lack of energy policy. It is the Progress Party that is responsible for the situation we are today, through its support over the last four years when the representative Børge Brende was in office. I must say that when I hear what he says here today, I am very surprised. Already in 2003 the then oil and energy minister Einar Steensnees went out and promised that the scheme would apply from 1 January 2004, but he could not get it done. So they sat throughout the period and did nothing about the force situation we had in Norway. It is then that we actually have to be allowed to point out that this is what makes us not getting started in relation to green certificates. I remember being a fractional leader in the Workers' Party, I got a phone call from the oil and energy minister, who asked if we were going to make a lot of trouble because she couldn't get a deal with the Swedes until about a year later. We promised her we wouldn't do that, because it was more important to get green certificates. Well, we see that the promise only applied to one way, and that it's not so important when we're in government, to calm down to do the job that's to be done. But at the end of the day, I want to refer to the position, where the government points out that the reason why it was not an agreement with Sweden is that we have half as many people as Sweden, and that in turn this will result in far higher costs for the Nordics than for the Swedes. When Solvik-Olsen is about to go up to the pulpit, it might be interesting to ask for increased electricity prices and increased VAT is also the new forward-looking party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e973	It should be a pleasure to clarify a number of conscious misunderstandings from the Workers' Party. They have so little business to do with themselves that the best they can do is to create uncertainty about other people's policies. To the Tore Nordtun of the Workers' Party: The Progress Party has never proposed the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway. If you read the daily newspaper and not just foam the headlines, you will have seen a clarifying letter from the undersigned a few weeks ago. Read it before you next come and say something. Before you next blame Børge Burnde for not having enough action from the previous government, you can – the representative – look at how much you yourself wrote when the Worm Lange was treated. Not one word came from the red-green parties that the power situation in Middle Norway would be difficult by the adoption of the Worm Lange. Yes, exceptionally, SV considered that the Worm Lange should not be adopted if a gas plant was built. To Klungland I would like to say about energy policy: it was the Workers' Party that supported the energy policy of the Bondevik Government throughout the last period. The Progress Party supported budgetary positions of the Financial Committee but, looking at one of the positions of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, it would be quite obvious if one could read that it was the Workers' Party that supported most of the Bondevik Government's proposals. The Progress Party even promoted some thirty proposals only in 2003, but even these voted against the Labour Party. The Labour Party did not make any proposals in the previous period that would have made today's energy policy very different, except for one thing: green certificates. But as soon as the Workers' Party itself got power, that matter went into the dust box. But there are some logical flaws in the Government's argument, and they came out especially during the intervention of the Minister of Energy. So let me take it short and hope that I get an answer. The government has promised that the alternative scheme will be the largest investment in renewable energy in human memory. We have 10 TWh now -- ergo more than 10 TWh. We know that there were planned 12 TWh with green certificates with Sweden, ergo there must be at least 12 TWh. So the Minister of Energy says that Norway will not be able to implement 12 TWh with investments in Norway in a green certification market, so most of the investments would come in Sweden. However, the same challenges in the network system exist regardless of whether renewable energy is to be put into action through a green certificate or through a strange scheme. How are we going to do this all of a sudden? How is the infrastructure going to come into place all of a sudden just because we're leaving Sweden out of the equation? About the costs: if we are to have at least 12 TWh with renewable energy in Norway, even without green certificates, this will cost at least the same thing, unless the red-green government is able to invent some technologies that are cheaper than the technologies that you would allow in a green certificate market with Sweden. But everything so far suggests that the government wants to have fewer technologies in a green certificate market than the Swedes will, a smaller selection to achieve a larger goal has been denied by the Minister of Energy. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e986	The President is satisfied that the representative himself is correcting himself from direct speech and from speaking through the President. If he could also respect the speaking time, the president would be well-accompanied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e989	I heard well after during the speeches of the Council of State. In the situation we are now in, with the need for new power generation and the standstill and uncertainty of many of those who work with renewable energy, it was important to hear what signals he made. I thought it was alarming that the announcement was more unclear in terms of time than in twelve weeks. Now he underlined that it takes time to work on this. In the past he has said that it should come before Easter, in a short time, in a week, etc. I therefore find reason to ask the Council of State: Will the alternative arrangement of the Government be submitted to the Stortinget before the summer? And can the Council of State confirm that the first level of ambition he had, that this should be a better arrangement than green certificates, is it at hand, or is it the adjusted position with the ‘like good’ that applies, or has he now reached a new position that goes into ‘almost as well’? So a little bit to Rolf Terje Klungland, to complement his selective memory: it's right that the plans to complete a single market with Sweden were postponed. That was due to the Swedes. They needed more time to get a setup up to go. Therefore, the State Council consulted Stortinget and briefed on this. Now it's the opposite that happens! The Swedes are clear, but Norway will not and will not be able to agree internally in the Government on a scheme that is ambitious enough to connect it to the Swedish. I am recording that the Council of State is toning down the expectations of its own arrangement and is stepping up the criticism of the previous government. There is little comfort for those who now need predictability to come up and go with new energy production. In addition, part of what he says about the previous government is misleading. Because now there are concessions for wind power equal to 3 TWh, the national objective. But it is true that many of these projects are not going to be implemented, unless the government comes up with something that is satisfactory in terms of support schemes, as green certificates were. He also failed to say that the previous government took action which led to the opening of uncontroversial hydroelectric power production during the previous ageing period to an extent equal to that of all governments in the 1990s, including the Enoxen himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1002	When the representatives of the Workers' Party now take on the big voice, it is obvious that it is humiliated by a bad conscience. We were promised a lot, among others. a more active industrial policy, from the same gentlemen who have now taken on the big voice. They were actually in the front row in that way. They promised a more offensive energy policy. The more active business policy has boiled down to a door factory in Årdal, which comes into competition with other Norwegian door factories. The more active energy policy, which Klungland, not least, talked about for four years, has become a ‘scraping’ of green certificates and a lack of response to the Storting today to what we are getting instead. And that's what's interesting, to look forward to. Today, the Council of State is unable to respond to the coming of the system and the level of ambition of the system. Why is it important to get this clarified? Yes, because there are so many ‘ready-to-crowd’ renewable projects around the country that can help to mitigate the lack of power and high electricity prices. I hope the Government is aware that it is starting to hurry if the Storting should at all have the opportunity to deal with this matter during the spring session. I hope that during the debate the Council of State will be able to clarify that we have the matter before us, so that the Committee can examine it. Because it would be very bad if the matter first comes to the fall, because then renewable energy projects consisting of many, many TWh, will be further delayed. With regard to the deadline set for Stortingen to refer the matter to me, I understand that the support system for which the Government is now operating is very complicated. That's why we've recommended the green certificates, which were also in opposition to the previous period. It was postponed because Sweden was not ready to implement it. It had nothing to do with previous councillors, so that's where I think we're actually going to be a little straightforward. But we're dependent on getting it to treatment in Stortinget now. Of course, we can talk a lot about what was done and was not done in the previous period. It's a fact, as the representative of Kvassheim also had to say, that more hydropower was being developed in the last four years than was done in the 1990s. But we need even more energy production in Norway in the years to come, and we've actually invited to work together here. We're willing to put kelphers in the stable to give Norway more energy production. We can shut up about who should have expanded more, but the point is that we have no power crisis in Norway today. We have a decision-making crisis. If we are to avoid power crises, we need more energy, and we also need more renewable energy. The government now has a brilliant opportunity to present a case to the Stortinget, so that we can work together to find good solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1015	I think this has become a bit of a wonderful debate. There is no doubt that we in this room are unanimous in the need to bring more renewable energy sources into Norway, but the disagreement is about a common certificate market with the Swedes. I'm a little surprised that those who are now most concerned about criticising the Government for putting their feet down don't question: Where would the investments come from if you had filled up a certificate market with the Swedes? It has become an uninteresting question for this one. Another important thing, perhaps the most important thing in a longer perspective, is what we're going to do with the heat market, with what Børge Burnde also mentioned as perhaps some of the most important, just that with biomass, having a reasonable return on forestry in the future. There's no question mark on that. No solutions have been pointed out. We had not arranged that with a common certificate market with the Swedes. While a common certificate market with the Swedes would undoubtedly also stimulate already profitable projects in Norway, which is now waiting for a certification scheme. I also find it strange that no more critical questions have been asked regarding a common Swedish-Norwegian certification system. A mere criticises the one-sided government because it has taken some questions into consideration and after weighing it up, it appears that one does not see fit to have a joint arrangement with the Swedes. Finally, it concerns the costs that this hall is willing to charge Norwegian consumers. It is also essential. I am a little surprised that the Progress Party, perhaps now the strongest critic, is actually those who are most willing to charge Norwegian consumers the highest charges for bringing in the renewable energy they are currently experiencing. I would like to refer to the party programme of the Progress Party. It is clear that the Progress Party is opposed to Norwegian ‘support schemes and regulations’. They must be wound up. They also say, ‘You should wait for the large-scale implementation of such technologies until they prove to be robust and profitable,’ that is to say, contrary to what they actually claim from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1026	I will try to answer some of the questions that have come. First to Ketil Solvik-Olsen: It is quite right that the same network challenges are there whether we choose a national system or a single market with Sweden. The difference is that, through a national approach, we have the possibility to control when investments are proportionate when there is capacity to take these investments. Just to give an example: Finnmark is the state that has the greatest wind power potential of all states. There is network capacity to expand approx. 0.2 TWh. It is clear that investments in networks should be made in these areas. However, with a single certification market, the authorities of the two countries have no control over when the projects arrive and where the projects will come. So this is one of the reasons why if, for example, were many ‘valleys’ projects, which are the concept used here today, in Sweden, and there was an opportunity to expand them, they could come before the Norwegian projects could be realised, among others. for the purpose of network capacity. It is also true, as Solvik-Olsen's representative says, that projects will cost, regardless of whether they are realised through a green certification market or through other schemes. But then I would like to remind you once again that through a national system you have the opportunity to choose the way you want to finance this. There is no need to burden consumers unilaterally with the costs that a green certification market would have incurred. Then it was consumers who had to pay. The party's own comments from the handling of green certificates here in Stortingen may be quite informative reading in this context. They were actually pretty good. The Party of Progress expressed some scepticism for the green certificates at the time. It is not right, as Mr Kvassheim said, that there is now a standstill and uncertainty in this area. We work under high pressure to put in place an alternative arrangement as soon as possible. It is possible that you have become wise of damage in relation to fixing the time when this will happen. But once again, I'm going to say this is going to happen in a short time. Then the scheme from the Government will come. It has taken longer than I had expected it to do. I'm sorry. There have been elements that it has been necessary to spend more time investigating than what I initially saw for myself. But I actually think that a total accumulation should be satisfied that we're now trying to do this as well as we can, so that we don't get the same surprises that we did in relation to Sweden and the green certification scheme. Mr. Burnde and others have asked what will happen in the new arrangement. I honestly don't think that Stortinget expects to get any information about it today. It will be presented with the very first, and then it will also come to the Storting information.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1039	In the previous period, the Progress Party sent a number of questions to the Bondevik government and requested answers. I did not know whether to build gas power plants or to obtain green certificates. But in the light of the answers, the Progress Party here in the Chamber promoted a trust proposal to Bondevik, and after that they made sure that the Government was seated. That is why I will continue to say that the Progress Party is co-responsible in the situation we are in on the energy side. There is an important difference between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party in this Chamber, and it is that for the Workers' Party, the results are the most important, not shadow boxes. So the Progress Party had no proposals that could get a majority here in the Chamber, but they could get headlines in the newspapers in the last period. I record that sails if they were skeptical about green certificates then, they are to introduce the Swedish-Norwegian certificate market now, which would lead to Norwegian consumers having to pay twice as much for the power compared to the Swedes. In addition to that, I also record that they have now come to the conclusion that they are going to investigate whether they are going to build nuclear power plants in Norway. We in the Workers' Party have provided a 12 TWh concession for gas power plants. Then we've said that we'll get to a green certificate regime. Sam Eyde said when the electrification began in Norway, that ‘where there is a will, there is a way’. This government has been sitting for six months and has always said it has the will. Mr Brende is talking about active industrial policy, but the previous government said about a new power regime to industry, for example, that it would not have. So this government has said that it will and that it will have results. I am also very surprised at the representative Gunnar Kvassheim from the Left, who is calling for ways to increase power in Norway. The left is that they will, but when the projects come to Stortinget, they won't. The only thing one can conclude with in the energy policy of the Left is that if attraction had given energy, they would have been against it too!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1050	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice, and gets access to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1053	It was the representative from Telemark who took up the party programme for the Progress Party and said that it was not all that was in the party programme that agreed that the Progress Party would have a green certificate, and that is true. The Progress Party is not enthusiastic about subsidising all possible technologies. At the same time, we also have a number of programme formulations that we, for example. want good framework conditions for Norwegian business. We want access to energy for consumers who are not very expensive. Then one has to set this up against another. It shows that the Progress Party has been willing to go away from some principles in order to reach a broad agreement, to get a broad willingness to invest in the Renewable Energy Storing. There the government has not been willing to meet us. In this debate, the government has not been able to establish why it should be so much more expensive to have green certificates in agreement with Sweden than to make the corresponding investments only in Norway. Then it was mentioned new energy. Small power is not new energy. It's very well tried, and that's what's the main concern of the Progress Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1062	I have followed the debate with great interest, and I am terribly afraid that there is a debate here that is not understood very well. Significant expectations have been created for a green certificate and renewable energy regime. Much of the expectations are created by the sitting government. Now you're still talking about that it's a short time before any alternative is launched. That's what you've been talking about since it became clear that the green certificates were torpedoed. They're talking about investment coming in Sweden. I've never seen any evidence of that. I think that's part of the speculation. However, what is certain is that renewable energy can make a significant contribution to the energy balance. Renewable energy could have been the source of the development of local ownership and opportunities for local development around Norway. I think that's drowning a little bit in the debate. There is now a risk that the uncertainty will become so great that no one dares to grasp it. There is also a high risk that many small players are starting to sell their rights to larger players, who both have a professional relationship to risk and have time to sit and wait. I think it is amazing that an oil and energy minister from the Central Party can contribute to this. This would have served to remove the uncertainty, to work with Sweden around green certificates and to speed up the development that the green certificates can actually contribute to in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1073	At least they're right, those who say that there's been a rather strange debate out of this. It's sometimes pretty sharp, and there's high volume on some posts. I think actually the debate would have insisted that someone had taken the trouble to read their own comments that belong to approx. one year back in time, about what kind of demands were made, and what kind of expectations were created in the country. There were so many expectations, so many demands and so many promises that you actually managed to win the election in many ways in very many societies. But what has happened afterwards? It was not the previous government that created the pressure of expectation that the then opposition performed to present. We have seen that those who were out there promising gas power plants have now had to take on the spectator's role. Gas power stations are likely to be provided in Norway, but when can no one respond? It's been launched politically so unclear that we know at least that this is going to be unprofitable. The green certification system has now been phased out. Weavers were taken back into the protective plan. In areas by region, private forces are prevented from wanting to expand new renewable energy, and they are not allowed to do so. I think it was okay for the Council of State to say that he regretted that this would take longer than what he himself had been able to estimate when it was about the time spent on what would come as an alternative to the green certification system. This stands in stark contrast to what the representative Klungland was used to, namely, promising gas pipes to Grenland. He was out there getting tens of thousands of votes around in industrial strips in Norway by saying: Just let us go, then we're going to get Norway's own industrial power regime! He performed with several other parties to say that there was only a lack of will in the previous government that made us not to have this in place, and that by letting go of a new government, the will would come. It would be so easy to get into a national industrial power regime that would give industry cheaper energy, cheaper power, that would be done in a few hours of afternoon. I think it is important to have a certain degree of audacity here and bring this debate down to the ground. This is not about who is able to scream loudest. I think it's important now that you look a little bit ahead and try to figure out a solution, because the fact is that this is going to be more and more difficult for every day that goes. It's like an hourglass that's turned upside down, where expectations are not near being realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22.ana.ud2146e1090	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President sees that the time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come, and suggests that we cut off the meeting here and see it again at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2288]] We'll start with case number. 5th@item: inlistbox – It is seen as a confirmation.
