ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e49	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken the seat. From the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly to the OSCE, there is an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Morten Høglund. The application concerns a permit to participate in the visit of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to Kazakhstan of the representatives of Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Trond Helleland and Morten Höglund from 28 November to 1 December and of the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo from 30 November to 1 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Tove NyhusFor Buskerud County: Beate Heieren HundhammerFor Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor Telemark County: Lise Wiik
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e94	Tove Nyhus, Beate Heieren Hundhammer and Lise Wiik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e100	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e110	The size appreciates getting more to do. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 5 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e168	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 6 hours, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 130 minutes, Progress Party 80 minutes, Right 50 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Center Party 25 minutes and Left 25 minutes. It is proposed that the replacement of the Rules of Procedure should be arranged as follows: five replies shall be made to the submissions of the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders and the Minister of Finance, and three replies to the speeches of 10 minutes or more, as well as to the submissions of the other Councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e179	A month and a half ago, we could mark the 1st anniversary of the new government. One year is short, too short for us to be in all areas. But one year is also a long time, long enough for us to see a new course: with more common rather than tax incentives, with better public services rather than privatisation, with increased security for ordinary workers rather than more temporary jobs. The state budget shows that we keep what we have promised. We promised that everyone who wanted it would have room in the nursery. For this reason, we are adding up to full childcare coverage in 2007. We promised to bet on knowledge. That's why we're taking a big lift for school. We promised free teaching materials in higher education. Now we're going to do it. We promised to strengthen care for the elderly. Now we're doing it through a historic boost in the municipal economy this year and next year. We are well on our way to 10,000 new annual jobs in the elderly. We keep the promise of a historic commitment to culture. We are taking a massive rise against poverty. Assistance is increasing more than ever. But in order to share more, we also have to create more. The main demands of business are better transport. We promised to increase the appropriations for road and rail by NOK 2 billion more per year. years than the previous government had planned. We'll keep what we promised. This is the strongest growth in road appropriations of 15 years and for rail of 25 years. And most importantly, for Norwegian business, it is essential that a responsible economic policy should be pursued that does not increase the pressure on interest rates or threaten business competitiveness. It is the first time since the last Stoltenberg government that a budget has been presented that follows the rule of action. Then I hear some people say that the reason why the government can invest so heavily in many new welfare tasks is that we have good economic times. It has never been a disadvantage that the economy in the country is doing well, but that is not the reason why the government has made great efforts in a number of areas of the budget. The bet is due to a political choice. We have chosen better well-being over lower taxes, as we promised before the election. Elder care, school, kindergartens, and transportation have been at the forefront of the lineage. The tax breaks for high pay have had to give up. Per-Kristian Foss proposed nearly SEK 7 billion in new tax reliefs for 2006. Instead, the Stoltenberg government has increased the taxes for those who have the most, by DKK 5 billion in 2006 and 2007. That means that the Stoltenberg government has $12 billion more to spend on well-being in 2007 than the Bondevik government would have had if it had continued, if it hadn't added additional tax relief. Now there is not a 12-billion kr difference between heaven and abyss, but 12 billion equals the whole increase to kindergarten expansion of SEK 3.2 billion, the entire historical increase on road and rail of SEK 2.1 billion, the whole increase in elderly care and schools in municipalities of DKK 3.7 billion, the entire billion to combat poverty and the entire historic increase in the aid budget of DKK 2.2 billion combined. Together! I record that the Christian People's Party and the Left also seem to agree with this effort to extend well-being rather than bring new tax relief. I'm glad. I am also pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have joined forces to strengthen the important efforts of non-governmental organisations and institutions in our society. In some fields major changes can be seen after a year with a new government. In other areas, each step is less noticeable. Social-democratic history in Norway shows that the many small steps over time have given rise to major changes. When Gro Harlem Brundtland took over as Prime Minister in 1986, the maternity leave had stood still for 18 weeks for all the years that Kåre Willoch had been sitting in the chair before her. When she went off ten years later, it was through a series of small steps carried out an extension from 18 to 52 weeks. Today, we have one of the world's best leave arrangements for young children's parents, but it was introduced over several years without much attention. In a number of fields, we now see how Norway is changing, step by step. We see how society is governed in a different direction than under the previous government. I have recorded that Siv Jensen in a debate after the state budget was presented, said that full child care coverage would probably have been given to us no matter who crashed. Then I'd like to ask, why didn't the bourgeois parties get it into all the years they crashed? The answer is simple: the priority tax measures over these types of welfare tasks. It means something who controls the country! In the political debate, the new government is easily compared to the previous government. But the alternative to today's government is no longer a Bondevik government. It's a Jensen government. It is the Progress Party that is now the dominant force on the civil side. It is not possible to see any civil option without the support of the Progress Party. However, the draft budgets of the civil parties show that the opposition's intentions are not very clear. Would a Jensen government spend more oil money or less? Would it increase or reduce the military appropriations? Would it bet on big cuts for culture or additions? Would it put down large parts of the network or strengthen the offer? Would it shut down agriculture or would it be maintained? Would it have had a living local democracy or centralized schools and care for the elderly? Would it cut into the local economy or strengthen it? Would it have cut environmental measures or increased efforts? All of these options are within the different budgetary options of the opposition. The opposition's budgetary options show fundamentally different values on a number of important issues. One is not close to agreeing, even though the most central aspects of economic policy are not. Maybe we see the differences more clearly when we put the policy into the two largest parties in the country. The Labour Party will have a fairer distribution. Our and the Government's tax arrangements for the current year mean that the 100 richest people in Norway have to contribute more than 1 million. kr more to the community, even when we disregard the tax on dividends. We strengthen the economy of those who have little, including by strengthening measures to combat poverty and by correcting the reduction in unemployment. The Progress Party will have greater differences between people. Their tax arrangements for the current year mean that the 100 richest on average get a tax return of about 5 million. kr each only through the taxes on wealth. They were the ones who secured a majority in order to cut the unemployment benefit by up to NOK 20 000 per year. years. The working party will have better joint services for all rather than bet on private offers for those who can buy in the queue. The new government stopped the privatisation of the school and health care system. We want a good common pension scheme through popular security and a right to occupational pension for everyone. The progress party on the other hand is the leading champion of private services. They want it to be free from private schools and private hospitals. People's rights are to be made equal for everyone. We're all going to be minimum pensioners. The party to the progress is the only party which is opposed to ensuring a compulsory occupational pension for industrial workers and others who do not have such schemes. The Workers' Party will have a strong protection for workers and a strong trade union movement that can safeguard the interests of employees. The new government stopped the opening for more use of temporary addition. We want to interact closely with the social partners. The Progress Party will weaken the protection of workers and weaken the strength of workers in wage negotiations. They focused on the introduction of increased use of temporary posts. The working day could be extended to 13 hours without overtime payment. They would eliminate nationwide collective agreements and leave each one to negotiate wages with their employer. We are proud of the Norwegian and Nordic model of society that is built up – which, not least, the movement of workers has built up. We're proud of a society that the United Nations sees as the world's best country to live in. That is why the fight against the Progress Party is also the fight to maintain the welfare society of which we in Norway are so proud. In addition to the fundamental and ideological differences, there is an important distinction between the Progress Party and all the other parties on the Stortinget, namely that the Progress Party is camouflaging a lot of its liberalist attitudes by spraying out a lot of oil money into an already heated Norwegian economy. This may appear to be a failure to choose between tax relief and welfare. I have noticed that the Right criticises the Government for spending too much oil money. What do they say, then, that the Progress Party, with which they want to enter into commitment cooperation, proposes to spend an extra NOK 23 billion? And they have presented one proposal more expensive than the other, except for all ordinary budgetary procedures. But where was it really from the proposal to cancel the toll debt? It was proposed in Stortinget, but there is not one penny added to it in the alternative budget of the Progress Party. Where did the proposal to remove the mobile tax come from? Where do we find this in the alternative budget of the Progress Party? Or where does the proposal to make the petrol tax fluctuate in line with the oil price? Where do we find this in the budget of the Progress Party? Within the first three months of the year had passed, the Progress Party had suggested spending 37 billion kroner in addition to what they had found themselves available in their own budget. When you see these suggestions of granting more and more, it actually reminds me of an event from when we started using the checkbook. One of the town halls had also received a checkbook, and he wrote out checks in the east and west. After a short while he was – naturally – called in to the bank manager, who said he had spent far more money than he had. Then the man would calm the bank manager, and he said that they had to sort it out, of course – he would write out a check! However, the cost of using the money of the Progress Party would be borne by young owner-occupiers and employees in competitive business. It was confirmed by the head of the Norwegian Bank when he met for a hearing in Stortinget some time ago. On the question of the effects of a use of money proposed by the Progress Party, he unequivocally replied that it would have an ‘immediate effect in terms of a higher interest rate and a stronger dollar rate’. So, towards the 2007 and 2009 elections, two very different social views will stand against each other. The various budget proposals presented in the autumn underline this. The government parties hold here what they promised before the elections, the government parties are raising a stake in a stronger community, rather than giving new tax relief to those who have the most. In this social struggle towards the next elections, we will see the clear lines: on the one hand, we will see those who will test the liberal progress party society, where everyone is successful – with more children in private schools, grandmother on offer and a more brutal working life. On the other hand, we stand who want to further develop the Nordic welfare model, the model that has made Norway the world's best country to live in, where well-being is being built, and where everyone is going to participate in it. It's a society that's worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e245	It is very interesting to note that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen then until those degrees choose to comment on the alternative state budget of the Progress Party in his post, where he might actually present what they themselves are busy with. We only note that, and it is good that so much time is spent on our budget option. Then maybe some of it should be able to sink in as well. The authorised representative showed that it has obviously not done so. The ruling of the Government and the majority's policy would also distribute Schjött-Pedersen already, but fortunately we will leave that to the voters in 2009. It's touching to hear that Schjøtt-Pedersen is very concerned that the bourgeois parties have not gathered about an alternative state budget. At the same time in the previous ageing period, the red-green batches had not assembled on any state budget option either. Why in all days is it that Schjøtt-Pedersen is so concerned that the bourgeois parties have to do it when the red-greens don't need it at the corresponding time before the previous election?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e254	The three parties that are currently in government, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have a broad consensus on the direction in which the Norwegian society is going to evolve. It has been confirmed during this year, with the choice of community rather than tax-free, common solutions rather than privatisation, a better working life rather than a more raw labour market. What is alarming is that the Progress Party and the Right have made it clear that they want to be a government option at the next elections, while when we are presented with the budget, we are not presented with a common arrangement – and it is now – but on the contrary that goes in exactly the opposite direction. It is such that the Right is criticising the Government for spending too much money in the Right's view. Leave it to the right and the regime of the Government will have the same effect on the Norwegian economy, but we hear the criticism from the Right. On the other hand, we see the Advance Party, which will spend 23 billion more. They therefore have a fundamentally different view of what economic policy should be like. There's a lot of difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e261	It's not hard to understand that Schjøtt-Pedersen has many children, because a better adventure storytor is at least not in this house. I also don't think everyone is familiar with the adventures that Schjøtt-Pedersen tells – a government that cuts knowledge and research, a government that doesn't make sure that more patients are treated at our hospitals until next year, a government that contributes to higher interest rates. Schjøtt-Pedersen should think a little bit about the many young people in the start-up phase with big loans. I record that Schjøtt-Pedersen says that you have to increase the tax for those who have the most. Who is it that Schjøtt-Pedersen increases the tax for next year? Well, they're ordinary employees, engineers, teachers and self-employed. There are pensioners who have paid off their mortgage, and are sitting in an apartment or a dwelling. It is those who have to pay higher taxes on housing for the next year, and there are the many with private pension savings, who could get NOK 10 000 – NOK 12 000 in the tax tightening of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. Does Schjøtt-Pedersen realize that not everyone recognizes himself in the adventures he tells? And does he understand that many voters feel cheated by the promises given?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e270	Let me first repeat to the representative Sanner that there is a strengthening, a significant strengthening, of the budgets both for primary and secondary schools as well as the training that is in kindergarten. In addition, there is, in fact, a strengthening of the budget for research. Truer would have wanted more, but there's a raise of 900 million. kr. Then the representative is talking about interest. The situation is that the Right Budget and the Government budget line will have the same effect on the interest rate level. It was last confirmed by a letter from the Ministry of Finance received by the Committee yesterday. The challenge is not the difference between the structure of the Workers' Party and the Right. After all, the challenge for Sanner must be the difference between the economic approach of the Right and the Advance Party. I repeat that the head of Norway’s Bank has unequivocally stated that a scheme proposed by the Progress Party will have an immediate effect in terms of higher interest rates. As is known, the Right Party will ask the voters to trust in government. Maybe he should use more of the attention to it!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e277	When the government statement is actually Soria Moria, we may also have to expect some adventurous representations both of the excellence of our own budget and of the alternative budgets of others, which were a little less prestigious as I realized at Schjøtt-Pedersen. The state budget shows that we are keeping what we have promised, said the chairman of the finance committee. Yeah, if we go to colleges and universities, we see it cut by 274 million. kr, and in a budget promoted during peak periods. In addition, companies are prevented from using the TAX FUNN scheme in the same way as before. There, research and development is tightening up the benefits, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, of which we all benefit from the value creation we need in this country. So my question is, is it also in the higher education and university sectors so that the state budget shows that the new government keeps that promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e286	It is enough that every government has to make a choice as to what to invest in in each year. The government wants to strengthen higher education, but has not found room to do so in next year's budget. That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's On the other hand, we have prioritised other important areas in the education sector. Kindergartens are an important foundation for subsequent training. We have a strong strengthening of primary education by SEK 1.4 billion to the Knowledge Lift. We make sure that our high school students will receive free teaching material, which we know that students have had a strong desire over many years. At the same time, we also take many other important promises in the budget. We take an important boost by strengthening care for the elderly. I think the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party very much agree on that. We take an important leap forward by introducing new measures to make everyday life easier for those who have a bad economy. I think we agree on that too. And not least, we take an important boost to aid. I record that the Christian People's Party and the government parties have therefore agreed on many important priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e295	One of the most important tasks of the State budget and thus of fiscal policy is the sharing of resources between different sectors and between the public and private sectors. Norwegian companies now report that there are 100,000 job vacancies. We get reports of public buildings being laid out and where no one has time or capacity to build them. Maybe there's one offerer who takes the price he wants. I heard the news yesterday that it is up to one year waiting for completely elementary concrete elements for construction. It's not cement to recover in many months, because it's not labour. In this situation, the Government, through its municipal minister, chooses to go out during the budgetary procedure and encourages Norwegian municipalities to hire more people. It sends money, so that municipalities can raise wages and thus be able to compete with more people. My question to the chairman and spokesman of the Finance Committee for the Government Parties is: What in this budget points to a solution to these fundamental challenges in our society, and what kind of signal lies in this budget of Norwegian companies that can tell them that they can continue to invest in Norway and in labour in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e305	First of all, a clean-up of economic policy. I assume that the representative Sponheim and Left must agree with the main assessments of the economy that the Government is making. In general, the Left shares the view on dosage in the economy, as it is on the part of the Government. I have registered that the Left proposes to cut the municipal economy by 500 million. And with that, they have 500 million. kr less in the overall frame. As the Ministry of Finance writes in a letter to the Committee, it has no significant impact on the situation in the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, I must say that I am surprised that Sponheim does not agree with the Government that these measures are needed, among other things. to enable us to meet the challenges of primary school and to solve the challenges we face by offering a better offer to our older people, as the Government has set out, inter alia, by: to ensure that 100,000 more are hired to give our older people a better offer. There are also a number of employees in the municipal sector who are a natural consequence of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e314	During the previous election campaign, the Labour Party promised that if the party came into position, taxes and charges would not increase to more than 2004 levels. When the red-green government took over, it was clarified to be $4.9 billion. When we add up the tax consolidation that has come for the 2006 and 2007 budget, we get up to 5.9 billion kroner. Then there is also an additional employer's fee for employees over 62 years of age, with almost NOK 1 billion. Strangely enough, the government does not consider this tax tightening to be a tax tightening, because it goes for good, and because it follows from the IA agreement. My question to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is: does the representative agree that the tax promise is now broken, or does the financial committee leader suggest that the tax promise does not apply if it is for good purposes or if it follows from the agreement between the social partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e321	Of course, the tax promise applies, and the government has, of course, also kept it. The representative here, Mr Hagesetter, refers to in terms of inclusive working life and measures for them over 60 years, is a negotiated solution, initially between the parties and the authorities, where there was a solution already in the original draft budget, and where further changes were made as a result of the Sykeswohnscommittee, led by the Prime Minister. Similarly, I assume that the representative, Mr. Hageseter, does not believe that when you reintroduce a certified employer’s fee, it should be counted as a tax relief by removing the compensation measures that result from it. Here I think you have to have a neatness in the argumentation. I don't think I've ever heard anyone who's promoted the claim that the representative Hagesetter is here. The tax liability is kept, but the important thing behind the tax promise is that within that tax promise it is possible to make the priorities that I referred to in my post, which is not possible if you choose to spend the large amount of money on giving new relief to those who already have the most, as the previous government unfortunately did damage to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e330	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e333	When the Stortinge now deals with the state budget for next year, it is based on the fact that the state has never experienced greater wealth than what we are doing now. We have a huge surplus on the state budget, an oil fund that grows faster than anyone could expect a few years ago, and tax revenue at the top of the world, and large parts of business can tell about good times. Everything really facilitates the country’s citizens — who own AS Norway — to experience a very positive attitude. The nation has all the possibilities. If you want, you should be able to facilitate: a historical commitment to investment in the country, which would benefit today’s and future citizens, and the business we all depend on parental care, hospitals and health services as it shines through a school that is world-leading, where it invests in knowledge, future competences and research, which would be a rich country worthy of a sense of security for all citizens of the country through the necessary effort on the police and the legal system to reduce taxes and taxes significantly, so that families and citizens could experience a safer economic everyday life; Unfortunately, I find that the possibilities we now have are not being followed up. Very many people in Norway are doing well. But according to the opinion of the Progress Party, very many people feel that they are not living in a rich country. That is why it is completely incomprehensible that the national parliament of the country does not now take advantage of the opportunities we actually have, and for most people it must also seem quite frustrating. The Progress Party wants the countries of opportunity, Norway, to use the opportunities we now have. That is why the points I mentioned earlier, on how to prioritise, have also led the Progress Party's 2007 Alternative State Budget. The Progress Party proposes significant tax reductions. The Progress Party is promoting proposals to reduce taxes and taxes by approx. DKK 26 billion. Providing a reduction in taxes and taxes is not something you do to be kind. By reducing taxes and taxes, people are choosing to keep more of their income and resources than what is added to the adjustment from the bulk of the population. Most people prefer to work for their own income and live on it. It gives people dignity and makes the work more meaningful. The Progress Party would therefore like tax relief to be noted for the majority of people and that the relief should be particularly beneficial to those with low and medium incomes. The Progress Party wishes to move forward in investments that are forward-looking and necessary. The Progress Party proposes a significant investment in the development of Norwegian roads, important investments in our hospitals, strengthening and necessary procurement for our defence, better care for the elderly, increased resources for Norwegian schools, significant provision for research in a number of social areas and investments requested by industry. These are some examples of investments that it is important for the Progress Party to point out that we can afford. It would make sense to invest in the future and facilitate future generations. Norway cannot afford not to. The Progress Party wants it to be given more to those who have little. A number of the proposals of the Progress Party will give a significantly better social profile to all those groups in our society that have little. Through the state budget, we have the opportunity to give a pledge to all the country's minimum pensioners. The Progress Party proposes to increase the minimum pension by NOK 13 000 from 1 May next year. The government’s own definition of the poverty line places well over 200,000 minimum pensioners in the poor category. With a simple proposal for funding, this could have been corrected. The minimum pensioners could experience a worthwhile uplift in their income. Norway can afford not to increase the food tax. However, the government suggests that it should also have an increase for the next year. Increases in the food budget for households will particularly affect those who have little already. The Progress Party wants major changes in the tax regime, which will bring significant tax relief to families with children and older people. We propose that the special deduction for age and disability be increased. The tax cuts proposed by the Progress Party will be noticed on most people's economy from day one. The Progress Party wants to bet on combating crime, not empty words. The Progress Party notes that we as a nation are still experiencing a development that we do not want. In particular, we see this in the area of crime. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the budgets of the police and justice sectors. This is why there is a need for an investment budget for the police. The Progress Party wants the police to have their own investment budget of 500 million. kr for the next year, so that our officials and women can obtain the necessary equipment to ensure their own safety and strengthen the fight against an ever more brutal and hesitant crime. We need more hands in the care of the elderly and a better quality. The promotion party wants a system with a direct payment from the state via the individual user for the provision of personal care. But the political majority want a system in which the economy and priorities of the municipality of residence determine what offer is given when care is needed. Until we can put in place a new funding system, the Progress Party wants the municipalities, which are currently responsible for the care of the elderly, to have more resources. In order to ensure that older people can experience a better offer, we want to earmark specific appropriations for the care of the elderly. Within today's system, only earmarking provides citizens with a guarantee that increased resources actually go where the money is needed. The budget lines of the Progress Party show that most people should be able to experience the increase in wealth. Our political opponents will spend all their energy and time trying to imagine the Norwegian people that we can't afford this. For several years we have heard that the rule of action does not allow the policy of the Progress Party to be implemented. That most people agree with the Progress Party on, among other things, that we now have to make a significant increase in investment, obviously boasting of our opponents. But maybe people are actually pretty reasonable. It could be that there are sensible opinions among the people that other parties might have to take over. The Progress Party believes that a responsible and long-term management of oil wealth must focus on maximising economic growth and that oil revenues can thus be used more widely for necessary investments rather than foreign securities. It helps very little for future generations that they inherit our oil wealth in the form of an oil fund if at the same time they are facing huge investments that have been extremely poor in the past. In particular, the main objective of the Government’s policy is to comply with the rule of action. Clearly, the objective is not to ensure well-being. The aim is not to put in place concrete measures to lift people out of poverty. The aim is not to make investments and improve the framework conditions that would have allowed businesses to have good times in the long term. Since 2001, a government has never followed its own rule of action. But in this budget debate, we will experience that the parties behind the rule will compete in the Norwegian championship on the so-called most responsible economic policy. No matter who gets rid of the gold medal, most people will notice something special. The difference in Norwegian policy goes in many areas between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other political parties on the other, especially when we look at how we choose priorities. The Progress Party believes that we can avoid a little bit more well-being. The other parties doubt the argument that if we use one more penny, it goes wrong. The difference between the Advance Party and the other parties is a difference that we as a party can live well with. But what is sad is that a number of people who have been working through a long life are not now going to benefit from the wealth they have laid the foundation for. Most other parties have a long way to go, suggesting that Norway cannot afford more well-being. But a false claim doesn't become a fact just because you repeat the claim many times enough. The Progress Party shall present in its budget a comprehensive economic policy. We cut government spending in a number of areas where we think it is sound, and make reasonable repriorities. It is important that we focus on improving the efficiency of the state's business, because, after all, it is private business, in addition to the nation's natural wealth, which will provide the basis for continued growth. Citizens' ownership in AS Norway should be the most profitable investment you can imagine. The Progress Party wants the state's owners, i.e. our residents, to get good returns. I note that the majority does not share the view of the same conclusion. For the Progress Party, it is important to show that we are impatient on behalf of many of the country's citizens, impatient to bring about changes that would immediately speed up important investments, impatient to strengthen the care of the elderly, the school, the health services and the justice sector, and impatient to cut the sky-high taxes and charges in this country. As a party that is impatient, taking little steps helps little. For this reason, the Progress Party shows that in its alternative state budget, it takes important steps to correct the imbalances in society, to secure the jobs of all those who work in a competitive business every day, and to make investments that both current and future generations could reap. I refer to all the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the budgetary position, and to the proposal distributed in the Chamber, as well as to the proposals in cases No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e398	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e403	The previous government described in its national budget that interest rates would increase slightly in the years ahead. We now see that this adjustment is implemented. Most of us are concerned that young families get increased costs as a result. In this situation, the Progress Party proposes an economic approach that would further increase interest rates, an economic approach that would increase exchange rates, leading to job losses for tens of thousands of employees in Norwegian industry, travel and other competitive activities. Is this avoiding us a little more well-being, as the representative Leirstein said in his speech, or is it an irresponsible financial arrangement that needs to be paid by young families and those who become unemployed in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e408	I think it is important that we focus on what the Progress Party has actually proposed. The Progress Party is the party in this room that cuts most of the government’s expenditure in a number of areas, especially with regard to getting red taped in Norway. So that means that we're choosing to do big re-priorities to those that already have a little bit of time. We choose to provide great tax relief. I note that the representative, Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen, believes that this will put interest strongly on it. Professional economists note that there will be no gigantic interest jump with the policies of the Progress Party. I also find that very many in the Workers' Party and the Red-Green parties themselves believe that we can avoid something more in the form of investments, sensible investments that are just getting momentum into the economy in an even more positive way. Had it been this way that the Progress Party had only increased the costs of hiring a number of new people in the public sector, I could see that the warning light was flashed, but by our arrangement we believe that there is no danger to what Schjøtt-Pedersen mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e413	The Progress Party is putting forward a budget option that targets the majority of people. First, the Progress Party cuts the 745 employees in the tax bill, which means that ordinary people who are honest are going to keep paying taxes, while tax cheats are getting away, because the tax bill is not going to be able to take them. Explain how this will not affect most people! In addition, the Progress Party is so poor at prioritising the issues that they themselves consider to be most important, that they need to spend billions of dollars – over 20 billion – on their government budgets, which are going to go out on people most of the way through increased interest rates. But what I think is strange, and that makes me wonder what kind of tailor-made economists the Progress Party has employed in its staff, this is the foreign budget. Here you spend $7 billion abroad, which is said to have no impact, while the 10 billion you cut in the aid budget, you don't carry them on the foreign budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e424	The Progress Party is proud that we are cutting a lot in bureaucracy, and the reason why we are, among other things. Cuts in the tax rate and other agencies linked to the tax recovery in Norway are precisely that the Progress Party significantly reduces taxes, simplifies the tax system and the tax system and eliminates more taxes – and indeed fewer people are needed to carry out the recovery. In addition, I note that the tax rate is now to be reorganised. Large amounts of money must be invested in reorganisation without any reduction in the number of annual works and without any improvement in efficiency. It is rather strange to make major changes to an establishment without achieving an improvement in efficiency. In the private sector, the possibilities of improving efficiency would have been looked at just before major reorganisations were made. So to the foreign budget. Heikki Holmås believes it is strange to set up a foreign budget, but quite a few, including economists, actually agree with the Progress Party that setting up a separate foreign budget, buying services abroad, can be a very sensible re-prioritisation of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e433	There is solid evidence that there is a clear link between the price, availability, consumption and damage to alcohol. If the total consumption of alcohol shoots in the weather, the amount of traffic accidents, care failures and blind violence is also increasing. It thus reveals here a lack of logic in the alternative budget of the Progress Party. Does the Progress Party not see that if they had actually been given a majority of their policies, there would have been an ever-increasing need for both hospital, child protection and police to repair damage caused by the alcohol policy that was being pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e439	It is very good to be concerned about the adverse effects of alcohol abuse in society. There I and the Progress Party share the representative's concern that we have some challenges. But we're separating the path from what might be the current instruments. Today, we see that we have major problems, including: with drugs in Norway, but we do, despite the fact that we have a majority in this Chamber who have a very restrictive alcohol policy and which provides for very high taxes on alcohol. The Progress Party believes that we need to be able to give individuals some more freedom and the ability to act legitimately, rather than having a huge border trade, which may bottle Norwegian business for 10,000 jobs, and that we have an ever-increasing increase in the smuggling of illegal goods into the country. We believe that it is much better to lower taxes on alcohol, so that people can buy alcohol themselves here in Norway, to a cheaper money, which will both end the border trade and lead to some reduction in the illegal imports of alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e444	The party of progress stands out. The lot redistributes more and spends more money than anyone else. In 2002 and 2003, the then fiscal spokeswoman, the current leader, Siv Jensen, said that spending 20–30 billion more than the government provided was well adapted to the economic situation. It was in a period of decline. Norway is now in a period of historic recovery. We have an extremely tight labour market, and more and more companies report that they cannot submit tenders due to restrictions and that they have too much to do. Nevertheless, the Progress Party wants to spend more than 20 billion more than the government parties next year, and it is taken from the pension fund. Does the Progress Party not see that we are in substantially different periods, an upswing period versus a downsizing period, as we were in 2002-2003, and do not have the economic situation we see around us, and that Norway is inside, any impact on the alternative arrangement of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e451	The Progress Party is taking important action in its state budget. We give enormous tax relief, and I think, as far as the direction is concerned, that both I and the representative from the Right believe that this is a right development. That also means that the big steps we're taking are huge tax reliefs, which the Right Party is also adding to its alternative budget. The Progress Party and the Right must then share the view that tax relief makes sense even in the economic situation we now have. Then we'll see what priorities the Progress Party is doing. We propose, among other things: a huge effort on road development, but we are still told that there is no labour force to deal with this. I have here a press release from the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, where it says that 397 of their 467 member companies have free capacity for road construction in the next 12 months. So there are parts of society where we have the opportunity to make sensible investments, which will also benefit business in the long term and benefit the drivers. So we have absolute evidence of what we've presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e458	For the Progress Party, Norway is a limited liability company. It's quite clarifying to get it so strongly from the Storting's pulpit. Obviously, it's too simple. The budget of the Progress Party shows that government expenditure will increase sharply, combined with large tax reductions, and the impression is given, as it is now presented, that everyone will have more, and that everything will have more at their disposal. It's not like that. No matter how you put this up, someone has to take care of the whole thing. This task leaves the Progress Party to the Governor – outside popular governance. However, there are members of the Progress Party in the main board of the Bank of Norway, and they have to take this responsibility. They have confidence in the governor. My question is: why will the Progress Party in the UK not admit that their policies lead to an additional increase in interest rates from the Bank of Norway, when it is clearly expressed by the Governor of the Central Bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e467	I note that the representative Lundtigen also believes that interest rates will increase dramatically with the economic structure of the Progress Party. But we haven't tried out the scheme. Now we would like to have a majority here today, and you would have seen how this would have turned out. Because if you go in and look at how we put up the economic package, there are huge tax reductions, there are huge cuts in some transfers, among other things. to a professional group of which Lundtigen is very concerned, and we are doing a great deal of red tape. If you had taken that as a starting point, I also think the governor would actually have moderated. So what you're going to do is you're just spending 20 to 30 billion more on this mess, but you're going to have to look at what you're actually spending the 20 to 30 billion more on. So there's a lot of tax cuts and a lot of tax cuts. The progress party cuts in the bureaucracy, makes Norway more effective and ensures that individuals themselves will receive more money in their wallets, which they will be able to dispose of freely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e477	It's going well in the Norwegian economy. The growth is good. It creates space to strengthen well-being. Unemployment is falling, and more people are coming to work. It gives more opportunities to live an independent life. The economy is influenced by the international economic cycle, but economic policy determines whether a country is able to exploit the good times. When some European countries succeed better than others, it has its explanation in national economic policies. In Norway, we have succeeded, and the explanation lies in the fact that the Centre-Right-Registration led a responsible economic policy in combination with a forward-looking industrial policy and increased focus on knowledge and innovation. It gave the basis for the historical good times we now experience. The rhetoric of the electoral campaign that the choice was between tax and community has been shamed. The tax income of the municipalities and the tax income of the country is growing. The dynamic tax policy helps to make the cake bigger, making it more attractive. We see that lower taxes give more to the community. Growth in the economy makes it possible to strengthen well-being, and the Right believes that it is right to use parts of growth to strengthen public-funded well-being. 23,000 more patients would be treated with the Right proposal. We are increasing the focus on patient treatment and on rehabilitation and strengthening the municipal economy. But the good times are short-lived if you lean back and just distribute the growth, as the red-green parts do. The challenge now is to pursue policies that can help maintain good times. Then there will have to be more investment in tomorrow's well-being. We need increasing investment in knowledge and research-enhancing investment in new roads through growth-enhancing tax incentives to increase labour supply, making it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs If good times are to last, economic policy must be adapted to the challenges of the economy. There are now many signs of overheating. In parts of the public sector and in many sectors there is a significant shortage of labour. It contributes to increased wage pressure and increased pressure on interest rates. The government seems to be paralysed to meet these challenges. In January, the Minister of Finance, in a talk at the Seminar of Social Denominations, said that it would be correct ‘if the use of petroleum revenues for some years is below the expected real return of the State pension fund’. The government proposes to use more than what is resulting from the rule of action. In the same lecture, the Minister of Finance said that in a situation of high capacity utilisation it is ‘important that budgetary policy does not contribute to further pressures in the economy’. The government has provided a budget which, according to the Minister of Finance, will'stimulate domestic demand'. This means that through fiscal policy, the government increases the pressure on interest rates and shifts responsibility for economic governance to the Bank of Norway. The result will be an increasing interest rate. The right alternative budget will provide a better basis for economic development by reducing the use of funds from the pension fund, by contributing to saving and increasing the supply of employment. Overall, this will dampen the pressure on interest rates in relation to the Government's proposals. The right is proposing to spend NOK 1.3 billion less of the money from the pension fund. It is in line with the intention of the rule of action, namely that in good times it should be used slightly less than the real return would be expected. On the right, savings will be introduced to dampen the growth of private consumption. We propose to reintroduce tax-stimulated private pension savings, we extend the Housing Saving Scheme for Youth, we improve the tax advantage of saving in unit trusts and increase the net asset tax deduction, so that small savers avoid additional taxes on the money they have placed in the bank. While the socialists obviously view saving as a state task, the Right values that people take responsibility for their own future. The lack of labour can stifle economic growth. Demand is increasing both in the private and public sectors, but labour is lacking to carry out these tasks. To this end, the Right proposes a comprehensive strategy to increase the supply of labour: First, we need to get more from social security to work. It must pay off to work. We must prevent exclusion from the labour market, and we must facilitate those people who need a new chance. Secondly, we need to increase labour immigration. In the time to come, there will be a need for more active recruitment of the labour we lack. Thirdly, it must pay off to work; it must pay off to work longer. Therefore, the Right taxes on low and medium incomes are lowered. And that's why we want 67-year-olds who want to be a little bit longer at work to get rid of the curtailment in the pension. We want them to keep the entire pension if they stand longer in work. Fourthly, we must ensure the modernisation of the public sector. It has to be re-uplifted, so that we get fewer permeators in the administration and more warm hands into the care. With the unique economic space of the government in 2007, it seems pointless, even incomprehensible that the government is cutting knowledge and depriving research. The right will invest more in tomorrow's welfare. That's why we're increasing investment in knowledge and research by almost $1 billion. It is about providing our children and our young people with the best possible education so that they can cope in a changing labour market. It is about providing companies with tools for development and innovation. Right wants to invest more in new ways. That's why we're proposing to allocate 600 million. kr more, so that we can re-enter the national transport plan in terms of road construction. We are also proposing a road fund, where the return is to ensure increased investment in the way in which the time comes. Right will have a society with opportunities for everyone. Right-wing policy is about creating space for initiative and creativity. That's why we're focusing on knowledge in school. This is why we are focusing on a forward-looking industrial policy that provides the basis for taking advantage of opportunities across the country. And that is why we are focusing on diversity, on the voluntary sector and on culture. The right is concerned that the possibilities will not only apply to some but will apply to all. That's why we have a policy to raise students who fall out of school. We want to bet more on homework. We want to bet more on voluntary summer school offerings. And the right has concrete suggestions to give people who fall out of the labour market a new chance. The right also proposes a greater and more targeted poverty effort than what the Government is doing. Right will release private and non-governmental organisations to solve more welfare issues. It appears that the government is suffering from some sort of private allergy: private operators should not be used. In the right, we think the opposite, that the welfare problems that we're facing are so big that we need all the forces. We need non-governmental organisations, and we also need the private ones. It seems to be a repetition that the Minister of Finance every time she has submitted a budget, says that next time she will take the rich. When the finance minister only threatens to do this, but does not propose it, I hope that means that the government has understood that increased taxes on capital and investment are rice at its own back because it wants to move investments from Norway to other countries. The more provocative it is that the Government, with its tax policy, targets ordinary people, with very common incomes and pensions. It is the teacher, the engineer and the self-employed who are left with the tax bill. There are pensioners who have paid off the house or apartment, who get higher housing taxes, and there are those with private pension savings who get a higher tax on the pension. Right is opposite: We believe that it is worth working – that is why we lower the tax on lower and middle incomes.We believe that saving is worth saving – that is why we are promoting a number of proposals to start saving.We believe that investing is worthwhile – that is why we lower the tax on investment in Norwegian jobs. With this, I will address the proposals that the Right-wing Group is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e550	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e555	The political spokesperson of the Progress Party just said he wanted an experiment to try out a policy with a strong increase in the use of money. Truers warned on their side now just against the pressure of the economy. At the same time, the Right Leader will facilitate government cooperation with the Advance Party. The right is asking for confidence in its economic policy. Would it be an ultimate right-wing requirement for any government cooperation with the Progress Party to be based on economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e560	Right does not just ask for trust – we have also shown ourselves to be worthy of trust. We have run the Norwegian economy for four years, turning it from pessimism to optimism, ensuring that it was facilitated for investment and new jobs. We negotiated the state budget with the Progress Party for four years, and we put our feet down every time the Progress Party demanded more oil money. Right won out. Schjøtt-Pedersen can feel absolutely confident that in terms of economic policy, the Right is to trust. We're not conducting any experiments in economic policy. But it's a little strange that the chairman of the finance committee is using this opportunity to shoot first at the Progress Party. He should perhaps be more concerned with the Right Alternative arrangement, and also perhaps by defending the scheme presented by the Government. We've said that we have an ambition to achieve good cooperation between all four non-socialist parties, and we're working on that in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e567	In most areas, the Right agrees with the Progress Party that we need to reduce the tax and tax levels. Lower taxes and taxes will increase growth and value creation, increasing the number of cakes to be distributed. We're a few of them about that. However, in some areas, for example: in the case of matrimonial VAT, the right shall be opposite the right. Here the government has proposed an increase from 13 to 14 pst. That means that the Right is not enough, and they have suggested in their alternative state budget that the food tax should be increased to 15 p.m., which primarily affects those with a weak financial capacity, because they use a proportionately larger proportion of the income for food than the rich. My question to the representative Sanner is: what is the reason why it is so important for the Right to increase the price and the cost of food in Norway, and what will such a tax increase have to say for the border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e573	It is absolutely right that the Right believes in a dynamic tax policy. We have seen that the tax policy pursued by the Centre-Right-Registration has contributed to the growth and growth of Norway, with lower taxes giving more money to the community and more money to distribute. For 2007, we do not see it as a goal of maximising tax relief. On the other hand, we see it as a goal that tax relief should help to make working more profitable, that it will be more profitable to save and more profitable to invest in Norwegian businesses. It's increasing the food tax by 1 pst. According to the Minister of Finance, the price level of food will be marginally affected. On the other hand, we think it is important to reduce the tax on low and medium-income. In fact, we think it is more important for 2007 to make sure that people with income about NOK 250,000 get a lower tax than that the food tax should rest on the spot.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e578	In last year's debates, the Right said that $8 billion was absolutely necessary in tax bills. Where has it become of all the tax havens in this year's budget, and why is it that there are still the richest ones, those with the highest incomes, who get the most tax credit with Jan Tore Sanner's proposal? Why does the Right believe that the parents of children who go to kindergarten should have to pay NOK 300 more per month, plus NOK 3 600 extra in kindergarten fees during a whole year? And why is the youth who is going to finance the Right Tax Book, not getting free school books in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e583	The right has a much better arrangement for funding school books than the government has provided. The right also ensures that more families with children are provided with nursery facilities. For us, it's actually more important that people get kindergarten, and that there's quality in kindergarten, than that the price should be the lowest possible. We lower the price by 120 kroner compared to 2005, but we believe that in 2007 the most important thing is to ensure that we stimulate the development of kindergartens through more equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. We think it is more important to give priority to the quality of kindergarten services. There are a lot of parents who are concerned about the quality of kindergartens. It prioritizes the right. We will also reduce taxes by DKK 3.5 billion next year – targeted tax reliefs, so that it will pay off to work, pay off to save, pay off to invest in Norwegian jobs. I think maybe Heikki Holmås should be more concerned that his own government is increasing the taxes of ordinary employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e588	In the last ten years, alternating governments have done little to increase power generation in Norway. Only in this ageing period have we received a government that is taking the challenge seriously and that has put in place a number of measures to increase production. The right has gone very high on the path and criticised this initiative. In addition, they have promoted a number of own measures, such as a crisis package in Central Norway, a national effort for increased power generation, aid for the purchase of wood stoves, etc. However, the problem is that none of these measures are followed up in the Right's own budget. When, according to Røres Børge Burnde, SEK 20 billion for renewable energy is puzzled, it's impossible to reach $60 million. kr for petroleum research is a power put. After the right has had increased energy production as one of its main causes for over a year, my question is: Is it that the Right really is very pleased with what the Government has done in this area, or has the Party once again prioritised increased power production in favour of other efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e593	There was more power in our four years in government than in the ten years that went before the Right came to the government offices. We started increasing power generation, both hydropower and gas power. We have proposed to establish a green certification market in Norway together with Sweden. This would have meant that many of the pot-ready projects would have been realized, while the government has chosen a bureaucratic system in which we see that everyone has to queue at Enova, and that Enova does not get the money paid out to realize the projects and build more power. The right has put forward proposals in its alternative budget, which would increase power generation. Among other things, we have proposed that we have a new tax regime that would help to reduce the tax burden on small-scale power stations, and that more power generation would then be achieved. We have proposed to delegate to the municipalities permission for the construction of micro and mini-power plants. That the Center Party refuses to delegate to the municipalities to be able to say yes to mini-power plants, it could have consequences for power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e603	The Right Party and the Advance Party seem to want to apply together to form a political alternative to today's government. We see little of that in the financial situation or in today's debate. It is easy to see that there is a difference between the Right and the Advance Party in economic policy. I would like to remind you that economic policy is the foundation of any government policy. Therefore, I would like a clear answer to the following questions: Is it an ultimate requirement for the Right to follow the rules of action by possible future cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e608	Let me first say that I agree with Agdestein that economic policy is the foundation of a government. We have said that we want broad cooperation between the four non-socialist parties. We have good experience with cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we want to move forward towards the decision-making process in 2009 to build a broader cooperation that will also include the Progress Party. So Agdestein knows perfectly well that for the Right, the economic policy and the rule of action are, of course, a determining factor for the policy we can take in government. That was between 2001 and 2005. We put our feet down every time the Progress Party would spend more oil money, which could lead to a higher interest rate level, and the Right is to trust in economic policy. Finally, I remember that TV 2 in 2003 made a report about the red-green parts. It was then said that there was a gap of between 30 and 40 billion dollars between the red-green parts. Well, you've managed to agree. We showed in our government period that we were able to agree with the Progress Party on alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e617	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e620	It is for people one question that is more important than others to ask to a government that governs the country. That's the same question we ask ourselves every day: do we keep the promises? When we set the main goals? I tend to say to party members, when we talk about what is the goal of what we are doing, that everyone has to find their own sentence in the Soria Moria Declaration – either party members or others who support the red-green project – and make sure that it is implemented. I have my own sentences, and they describe the objectives of economic policy, namely the following: «The objectives of economic policy shall be to work for all, sustainable development, a fairer distribution and strengthening of welfare systems.» In addition, ‘the Government’s objective is to reduce economic disparities and eliminate poverty’. It is easy in a day that today is characterized by what is on the front page of the newspapers, forgetting what is the main objectives of our long-term project, and rather being guided by day-to-day policy. But we still have to keep the attention firmly attached to the objectives. Then the answer is yes, unemployment goes down. We've got about 79,000 new jobs in the last year. Over 30,000 of those in the unemployment queue have got a job. The unemployment rate for the unemployed is down to 2.2 pst. Unemployment is a waste of society's resources and waste of people's lives. We succeed in getting people to work, and unlike what the right-hand side did when they were in government, we do it while giving the unemployed more money – money that the right-hand side took from people who were unemployed. Next year, we're going to do more to get those out of work into work. We are pursuing an economic policy that facilitates the conditions for continued decline in unemployment. We spend money on business development across the country, and we reintroduce the differentiated employer fee, which the previous government had almost given up. We upgrade schools and build rail for people and goods. We're creating a new qualification scheme for those who have been long-term social welfare recipients. The scheme is similar to the successful introduction scheme for refugees, with a fixed amount per month and a right to housing support to participate in schemes to enhance skills or otherwise. It's one of the concrete arrangements that follows up the old SV proposal to give people one door to walk in when they're meeting Aetat, the Social Security Agency, and then all the parties on the Stortinge agree. Yes, we are moving gradually towards a more sustainable development. The climate is our generation's biggest challenge, because we are for developing countries to approach in prosperity, while at the same time it means a huge burden on the climate on our common planet. That's why we're putting out millions to clean up gas power plants that former governments have allowed to emit large amounts of CO2. We also need to clean future gas plants. We're betting on renewable energy. The first 10 billions are in place in a fund. That gives us 400 million. kr a year to invest in conversion from oil and non-renewable energy to new renewable electricity production, and to make it cheaper for people to invest in power saving at home. We're converting the car charges, so it'll be cheaper for people to choose climate friendly cars. This was the first step in the conversion of car charges in an environmentally friendly way. Next step to get more cars on biofuels is already coming to summer. We have also been able to cope with the acid rain that kills salmon – and other lives – in the rivers. For this reason, we introduce the first stage of a NOx tax, with the possibility for industry to negotiate with the Ministry of the Environment, which provides at least the same tax reductions. We are therefore on the way in environmental policy towards more sustainable development. And -- yes -- we're moving towards a fairer distribution. We're increasing the indicative social assistance standards from 1 January by 5 pst. more than the price increase. While all other groups in society are getting social security and wage increases as wages grow, social welfare beneficiaries have been slowing down in the last ten years. We do something about that, and then it's up to the municipalities to follow up with concrete social aid decisions. And then we're going to spend 200 million. to remove some coercive charges, which in particular makes it easier for people who have been in financial trouble. This is important to prevent people who have poor advice from suddenly ending up in a trap of poverty. And then, along with the rest of the government parties, we're a tax relief party for those with low incomes. We make sure to withdraw money from those who have a lot of shares and higher salary incomes, and provide tax relief to young people by increasing the free-card limit to NOK 40000. We give tax relief to part-time workers and low wages who earn less than NOK 200,000, and to people who sit on a small fortune, for example. Because they own a little house. The differences have increased completely since the 1980s. We are ambitious and believe that the differences should be reduced, because they are especially the richest – especially the 5 pst. richest – who have withdrawn from the rest of us. We believe that differences should be reduced, not out of envy, but because fair, even economic distribution is what creates the feeling in this country that we are one team, that we have a common goal, that we can work together in what is created by the Nordic model of work and the Nordic model of well-being, where everyone makes up with taxes and at the same time gets security – both employers and workers – through good social security systems, health services and kindergartens. In addition, we make sure to fight for justice, not just in Norway, but worldwide. We are leading the fight against international poverty and for fair development in the world. We're going to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of our income here in the country is going to develop in poorer countries than our own, because we are a solidarity people who are concerned that we should distribute the wealth that has come to us through the oil revenues from the North Sea. We see that the oil revenues we get from the North Sea are revenues that, among other things, comes from the sale of oil to poorer countries. Part of that money should go back to poor countries, because we are in favour of international solidarity. We're going to the front internationally by eradicating debt from the 1970s' shipping export campaign. We are involved in stopping the cut-off in the Amazon jungle to improve the world's environment. We are in favour of vaccination programmes to reduce the suffering of children – children who die of very common diseases that should have been eradicated. We are involved in a development that particularly contributes to equality, because we make sure that in many countries there are girls, often girls who would not have been educated otherwise, who contribute to the future of their country. Then we create more well-being here in the country. We have spent money on the largest kindergarten expansion ever. We have new record numbers this year, and we're going to get even higher numbers next year. We have spent money to be able to follow up the child's hail. Then it's incomprehensible to me when Jan Tore Sanner is standing here and saying they're going to create more kindergartens. So we've spent enough money to create just enough nursery places to fulfill the promise that anyone who wants it and who is applying for a place next spring will have a place during the next harvest. It's just that when you increase the nursery rate, as both the Right and the Left add up, you try to solve the problem of kindergarten queues by forcing people who have poor advice, instead of being at home – because they can't afford to pay the nursery bill. That's an unsolvable way of solving the babysitting queues, which we deeply disagree with. However, I would say that the greatest increase in welfare for which the red-green option stands is the promise we see in the local economy. In the last period, there was a lack of confidence elected representatives around the municipality sector, because people felt it was completely fearsome to be involved. They felt that what they were doing was cutting the welfare supply around the municipalities. It wasn't strange, because the previous government had as its goal the well-being of the country would get a smaller and smaller share of the total cake of income and value creation we had here in the country. We have the opposite goal. We say that growth through the increase in oil revenue in the years to come should go to well-being. It should be well-being by ensuring good social security for people. It shall be well-being by ensuring the development of the welfare country throughout the coming years. Overall, during this year and next year, the local economy will have a growth of 17 billion kroner. That's a crazy amount of money. There is money that would never have been there if the previous government had continued, with the support of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e673	I want to bring the representative Holmås a little back to the political realities. Today, relatively, fewer and fewer employees are employed in private value-creating businesses. This value creation must ensure the well-being of more and more people. Today, one in the private sector has to ensure the well-being of five people. We know that the Government proposes, among other things: new environmental taxes, multiple bombings, cuts in the tax FUNN scheme, affecting R & D in industry, and cuts in appropriations for higher education. My challenge to the representative Holmås is: What measures in the government's submitted budget do the representative Holmås want to make progress in order to improve conditions for increased value creation in private activities? It was not mentioned in his post, where he mentioned the four main points of the Soria Moria declaration in which he was so pleased. I heard nothing about increased value creation in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e682	Then Christian Tybring-Gjedde heard bad after, because I drew up at least three things that will contribute to increased private value creation. One is that we have reintroduced the differentiated employer fee, which provides better opportunities for business around the districts that are far from the large markets in the central east and the large cities. The differentiated employer’s fee had the previous government to cancel the introduction. In letters to the European Union, they have cleared it up. We, on the other hand, put it in focus right away and got pressure on it. We have implemented the promise in the field of transportation that we were very busy getting to. We have spent money on freight traffic to handle that goods and get more goods on the railway, which is good for both the environment and road safety around. In addition to this, we have spent more money on industrial development measures in the districts. There's one thing that's important to say in the end: it's actually not like Tybring-Gjedde says, that providing a good public sector is at the expense of private business. On the contrary, a good education system and good childcare facilities are essential to contribute to private business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e693	I understand that every day the representative Holmås asks himself the question: Do we keep the promises? Among many others, Unio's leader, Anders Folkestad, gave him the answer in a letter to the committee where he writes the following: ‘The commitment to knowledge and competence is alarmingly poor in the draft budget. Both higher education and research are among the budget papers [[...]] Holmås’ party colleague Øystein Djupedal, who runs the current department, has defended these cuts with rather floating and imprecise calculations, at the latest in the Question Time last week, while the chairman of the finance committee today goes quite far in saying that the area has been deprived. Does the representative Holmås have a different and better explanation for Anders Folkestad and us on how SV, of all parties – with its history – can be co-responsible for a systematic depriorization of investment in knowledge and research, which should be our main competitive advantage in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e705	I do not agree with the fleet's description that we have systematically downgraded this. Firstly, we have increased research by providing more money for research next year – not as much as the Fleet might have wanted, and as is the one in the research escalation plan. It is true that the cut in higher education is not a priority of higher education such as: is in the Soria Moria Declaration. But at the same time, in higher education, there is a good deal of money built up – the National Audit Office says that NOK 2.3 billion lies there – and I hope they use some of this to invest in further education in the year to come. But the important thing is that we have prioritised other parts of the knowledge promises. We have prioritised both high school and primary school through the large-scale investment in more money for municipalities, which primarily benefits that part of the education cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e712	The Christian People's Party, like many others, believes that the Government's proposal to grant healthcare companies is not sufficient. We've proposed 250 million. kr for patient treatment in our alternative budget for 2007. In addition, we have proposed 100 million. kr more to the psychiatry. As an example, I point out that the State Health Authority has overseen the provision of treatment to drug addicts. In the West, there are considerable differences in treatment provision. Not all patients receive evaluation, investigation and treatment. Regional health businesses need more time than the Government spends to make medically justified adjustments and priorities so that necessary adjustments do not affect patient treatment. It's the patients who have to be in focus. Will not the representative Holmås actually vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's draft budget for 2007 and thereby ensure worthy treatment for sick people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e721	No, I will not vote in favour of Mr Bavøy's draft budget, simply because we have made other priorities. Among other things, we have priority efforts to combat poverty are very high. But I expect that Laila Davøy is pleased that we have completed the creation of the partition between parts of the country and among others. The West, from which Laila Davøy comes, faster than the government of which Laila Davøy himself was part, had set up and recommended to the Stortinget. And I expect that Laila Davøy is pleased that we're coming up with a escalating plan for the drug field, which will secure more money for this in the years to come. Because we fully agree that making sure to do something for those who are among the most advanced in this country, who have the worst advice and the most serious health problems, is very important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e728	My question to SV is about the reward scheme introduced by the Bondevik II government, which has been a great success in our big cities, and which we wanted to continue and expand to several cities. I expect that the Oslo representative has brought with him the rolling pavements, the five-minute routes and the contemporary information, and that he uses this. The collective effort of the Government is on the railway, as the representative said in his post, and it obviously supports the Left, as an environmental party. But it helps little for the movements within the city center of our big cities. Does the representative Holmås see the importance of the reward scheme, and will he support the plan of the left over the reduction to which the government Stoltenberg II puts up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e735	No, I do not want to support Left's escalation plan, but I fully agree that the reward scheme is very important – it has been important for SV as well. In our budgets and in the treatment of the national transport plan, in the previous round, we added up to a bet of NOK 1 billion more to the railway than the left was to bet. A lot of rail traffic is also essential to ensure better public transport in Oslo and for the many users in the Oslo area. I believe that the priority we have done by cutting into that incentive scheme, getting the money over to the railway, making sure to give more money to the municipalities such that, for example, Oslo Municipality is well able to invest more money in, among other things. public transport in its own city, together yields a better result than the Left in Government with the Christian People's Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e742	I have registered to my satisfaction that the representative Holmås and not least the Minister of Finance have changed their attitude regarding taxes in Norway, and now will do something about the unfair, high excise duties that we have – at least that is what the Minister of Finance says – but believes that this needs to be further investigated first. Why can't we already now, in the 2007 state budget, improve the economy for most people by reducing for example. the re-registration fee, the document fee or the electricity charge in winter? And why is the government also increasing the food tax this year? The representative and I can afford the food to be a little bit more expensive, but especially the weak economy group will notice a further increase in the food tax. Does the representative agree that high charges affect the poor – and most people – in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e747	I fully agree that you have to look at the entire tax system to get a fairer distribution than what we have. Now we have a unique chance, because we've said that we're going to keep the tax at a 2004 level. This means that from here until 2009 – when the voters have the opportunity to re-elect us if they think we are doing a good job – we have the opportunity to increase the taxes and charges that we think it is fair to increase, and to lower those that we believe are fair to lower. Now we've changed the car charges and made it cheaper for people to choose environmentally friendly. We've lowered the tax for people who make less than NOK 200,000, and increased it for people who make over NOK 400,000. At the same time, we've increased the most for those who have the greatest assets. We will gradually continue to do this every year until 2009, and hopefully also in the course of the year. Excise duties should be looked at in particular, because some charges are clearly distorted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e752	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e756	For the first time in many years, the Christian People's Party presents its own alternative budget. It is improper sometimes to come up with a completely separate alternative, which should not go through the slightly curved path of the compromises. That was perhaps what the finance minister also thought about when she presented the SV’s ‘alternative’ budget at the weekend’s national government meeting in the party. Maybe it was more than a delay? What do I know? Our budget option, 'Another dance', is new to the year, it's not set up – to quote freely from a dance by Prøysen. Likewise, I am sure that many will nominate the profile of the Christian People's Party through the alternative budget. We give priority to care, growth and education, the fight against poverty both at home and abroad, a strong volunteering effort and a policy that benefits business and future value creation. But first a few words about the big numbers in the budget. The Christian People's Party uses the same oil money as the Government, that is. 71 billion oil crowns are used in the next year's budget. So that's $8 billion more than for the current year. It actually provides the basis for more wealth for many. Those who had to claim that the sum is small money have to have a relationship with the use of money that has little to do with sound trustworthiness. The Christian People's Party's overall tax regime means that we reduce taxes and taxes by 170 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. However, we turn the fees in the green direction, while strengthening those who actually largely bake the cake that we all eat, namely business. In particular, I would like to make our proposal to facilitate the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family-owned enterprises. It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that benefit from this and thus strengthens business not least around the districts. In addition, we improve the conditions for entrepreneurs, not least women, by strengthening rights related to birth and care allowances for this group. A secure growth is investment in the future. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, there is a whole in this effort. We continue the Bondevik II bet on fathers through a new cardboard week, and all fathers are to be given the right to cardboard regardless of mother's professional participation before birth. The freedom of choice is ensured by a combination of cash support and nursery facilities. We are also increasing the subsidies to private kindergartens – thus preventing the economy from putting an end to the ambitious child hail lifts. And we want a better distribution policy by putting money at income-adjusted payment rates. We have high targets for Norway as a knowledge nation. We have the assumptions, but then we have to bet on it – we don't have to do some rest cutting! Unfortunately, however, there is also a bad tendency to be followed by stiff thighs and lactic acid, so here it really flashes red. It has therefore been important for us to correct the cuts in universities and colleges, increase the research fund and reverse the tightening up of the SkattenFUNN scheme, which promotes research and development in Business Norway. The sum of the Government's proposals in these areas is a Soria Moria which is as difficult to see as ski jumpers in the Kollen fog. It must be with a heavy heart the government parties vote for this part of the budget. Other important parts of the Christian People's Party budget are a commitment to action against the disabled, not least for those who need the most assistance to return to work. We want to strengthen patient care in both somatics and psychiatry, and we have a municipality that provides a good community economy, where we also provide incentives for good business policy, and where the state takes a greater financial responsibility for so-called heavy services. We also take action to get out of the completely meaningless situation that has arisen in the care of drug users, where private NPISHs have vacancies for drug addicts, but lack funding. Here we really need to change a system error! When the State budget was presented on 6 October, we commended the Government for its efforts, among other things. in the municipalities, assistance and faith training. At the same time, we challenged the Government and government parties to make democracy work – there could be good proposals in time for the final adoption of the budget, and it could prove that some of the government's original proposals would be suitable for source sorting. Let's say there's been a change. The sickness pay scheme for the Government is parked, the NOx fee has changed, and the diesel fee for recreational boats has been abolished, to mention something. In the Christian People's Party we also took seriously that the Government wanted constructive input from the opposition. That is why we challenged the majority on a voluntary package. We were sincerely surprised at some of the proposals in the budget that had a clearly negative volunteer profile: for example, that in time rises. Cutters at folk colleges, was improperly something surprising from a red-green government. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that today's financial position shows a positive change in relation to Freedom Norway – National Colleges, measures for drug addicts, private teachers' colleges, life courses, measures for prisoners' children are among the things that can thus be lifted through this positive consensus. We are pleased about that – not primarily on behalf of the Christian People's Party, but on behalf of all those who can thus get a better offer, whether it is in the form of a good high school offer, a good teacher training, or the drug addict who can finally get treatment. In retrospect, we have also seen that many representatives in the government parties have wanted to correct these imbalances in the submitted state budget. Of course, we have no such support in the Christian People's Party. So I've noticed that some people seem to think that the Christian People's Party has let themselves be delighted with this limited cooperation – almost as in Pröysen-visa, where 'hein Gunnar at Mo' is going to dance and thus makes it shower 'hot in my flower', as Nora Brockstedt tends to sing it. Well, a little rush in the blood is hardly of the way, but in the Christian People's Party we are neither naive nor gullible – to borrow some tags from a recently published book – when it comes to the political realities. And the reality is that we are satisfied that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have come to an agreement on such a voluntary package. It indicates the willingness of the majority to cooperate against the opposition, either more or less. It is well known that cooperation between the Christian People's Party and, for example, the Christian People's Party. The working party on budgetary matters is a little revolutionary. A biotechnology law that is just around the corner might be more illustrative of how the differences between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have traditionally been found. Norway is the world’s best country to live in. We have a wealth development that has surpassed all predictions. There might be reason to ask what it's doing to us: are we going to be more grateful, or are we going to be more demanding? Are we becoming more interested in sharing with those who fall outside here at home, and what about the injustice we see in the world? Does wealth make us spearheads for change, or are we nodding to the status quo? In this, there are major challenges, not just for government and opposition, but for all of us. With this, I take up the Christian People's Party's proposals in the vote and the distributed proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e793	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e798	The government has a budget proposal with a strong emphasis on value creation, well-being and fair distribution. As a result, next year we will be able to focus heavily on the welfare of municipalities, especially on what has to do with care and training. From the financial setting we can read that the second party, especially the Progress Party and to a certain extent the Right, is still strongly running at giving tax credits in the billions class. It must result in less well-being. Then my question to the representative Syversen is: Where is the Christian People's Party best suited – in a tradition with strong emphasis on community and heavy investment in welfare, or in a course that primarily demands tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e805	I may not entirely agree with Mr Sandal that the budget presented is a good budget for value creation. When it's time to do the art of cutting both at universities and at colleges and at the same time tightening up the TaxFUNN system, I'm a little unsure whether we have the same understanding of the concept of value creation. So I would say that tax relief is positive when it leads to a more robust business that can create values. In fact, some tax reliefs can contribute to increased tax access in the long term. That kind of tax relief has been supported by the Christian People's Party, and we will also support that in the future – and propose it. But then no one should be in doubt that the Christian People's Party wants – and here I think we have a good tradition, in common with the Workers' Party – a welfare society where we promise those who most often fall outside. Here, I think we should be able to find some agreement in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e812	I record that the representative of the Christian People's Party and his party are occupied by needy people in the developing world, by disaster relief, etc. That's good. At the same time, the representative is concerned about the increased use of so-called oil money. Why, then, will the representative and his party not support the proposals of the Progress Party for the establishment of a foreign budget, in which we, among other things, will not support. Earmarks 1 billion to e.g. disease control abroad – diseases such as HIV, tuberculosis, malaria, etc. - and disaster aid? This will not affect the Norwegian domestic economy and will result in inflation, but it will undoubtedly help many sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e817	We have very little need to support the proposal for NOK 1 billion. All that time the Progress Party has cut DKK 10 billion in the aid budget, it will be – excuse me – a little bit less to ask for our support for DKK 1 billion for something we have already spent more on the investment in aid and aid for the poor of the world. So I really want to return the question: why does the Progress Party not support a scheme that at least ensures that we are approaching that this rich country gives 1 pst. in aid to the poor of the world? I think that is a more relevant issue than the representative's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e822	The government has provided a budget to address the environmental challenges. The budget contains several measures in relation to the climate problems, and we are pleased with the support given by the Christian People's Party in this area. But we are surprised that the Christian People's Party is moving towards the introduction of a New Year's NOx fee. This is the main means of meeting Norway’s commitments under the Gothenburg Protocol negotiated in 1999, under the first Bondevik Government, and ratified in 2002, under the second Bondevik Government. The emissions shall be reduced from 215 000 tonnes to 158000 tonnes. This is demanding, and we're already late. Now the red-green government is taking the issue into account. In cooperation with the interested parties, we have made a scheme that puts the burden on the business community as little as possible and that has been supported by most in the business community. What is the background for the Christian People's Party to oppose the introduction of this New Year's tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e830	When the government presented its budget, we received many enquiries, not least from the party traps of the government parties around the country, which were very concerned about how this NOx fee was to be introduced. It's probably also the government parties themselves have taken note of, all the time they're now promoting an entirely alternative approach to the government's starting point. We then, in line with what was to be known also for Magnar Lund Bergo, proposed to postpone the fee for six months. It should give us the opportunity to obtain a fund solution in cooperation with industry that would help to reduce emissions further in line with what was proposed by the Government, which would give large and unfortunate results to individual industries, for example. the fishing industry. So we don't disagree that there's a need to do something about the NOx emissions, but we don't agree with the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e843	In large, heavy cases in the last year, the Christian People's Party has deliberately chosen to support today's government over the policy they were in at Bondevik II. The management plan for the northern area, the municipality and the agricultural sector is three of several examples from this spring. The same signal is clear in the 2007 budget: local economy, transport, rural policy, the fight against poverty – national and international. The Christian People's Party has come up with recordings to strengthen one from before a good volunteer profile, and so contribute to the further strengthening of an important field. Bondevik II proposed NOK 6 billion in tax bills, which today's government reversed. I guess the Christian People's Party is now happy that the funds can be used in the community. But we wonder what concern the Christian People's Party has for people who charge more than 400,000 dollars, since they are proposing to raise the limit for those who pay top taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e848	Firstly, it was interesting that the representative Meltveit Kleppa clearly knew what a possible continued Bondevik government would do when it came to the management plan – that is a little more clarity than what I can bring to square, because there was therefore no promotion of any management plan by the then Bondevik government. But now leave it. So in the case of top taxes, there's a difference between the Government's and our $3,000 bill with respect to the entry point. So I'm not quite sure if it makes any revolutionary difference. But I think we all really agree that there has to be a certain relationship between the word'maximum tax' and that they are, have a salary that may not qualify for that particular term. So I just want to repeat that we are for tax letters that can contribute to value creation, not least in business. I basically hope that the Center Party also has a vision for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e857	The representative Syversen had some well-chosen and wise words at last in his post that some can each lie down on the heart. But it is the case that the Christian People's Party has placed very great emphasis on the environment, on the voluntary sector and on aid in its alternative budget. Then my question to the representative Syversen is: would it then be possible for the Christian People's Party to cooperate with the party such as the party? The Progress Party, which does not give priority to these areas? And if the answer is yes – which of these areas is the Christian People's Party willing to negotiate away?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e863	I understand it's tempting for the representative Sund to try to wipe out the Christian People's Party on exactly those questions. But what I can calm the representative Sund with is that the Christian People's Party, now that we have three years left of this great period, is going to promote the Christian People's Party's policy. We're not going to scale to the right and the left to see where it fits best into a political pattern, a pattern that maybe everyone else wants to influence somehow. I would rather encourage the representative Sund and everyone else to follow developments here in Stortinget, and see what proposals the Christian People's Party is promoting. And then you can see what proposals other parties are making. I am absolutely sure that where we have common solutions, we stand together about them. Where we have different priorities, it will also come out. So I want to end by saying that budgetary questions are one thing. We also have other heavy issues in different value-related areas that are of great importance to the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e873	We must give priority to the state budget. We need to show our position on the challenges that require leadership – yes, we need to show our ideological platform in practical policy. The population of Norway today reaps from the planned construction of Norway by previous generations through conscious social organisation, with a mixed economic balance between market forces and popular market correction. This is what the Center Party will develop further. The economic policy of the state is an important instrument for ensuring long-term decisions. Today, listed private companies and interests have an inherent, almost irreconcilable, tendency to prioritize the short-term. In today's economic situation, it appears to be one of the weakest aspects of modern market capitalism. Therefore, the size has a great responsibility to ensure freedom of action to use public ownership in a long-term building work, that is to say, to actually use public ownership as the tool it should be. Not using the state's power of ownership is for us in the Center Party to give power to us at the expense of general social interests. Distribution of activity and a balanced distribution of income across our territory is a major challenge in any democratic society that in some areas is increasingly being embedded in a globalised market economy. This is not least true in our long-range country. The government, and in particular the Center Party, aim to accommodate people and operate throughout the country. The public has a special responsibility to facilitate modern communications that bind the country together. It's in the telecommunications field that we have the greatest opportunities and the greatest needs for change. We must soon have an offer-driven expansion of mobile, television and broadband coverage of future-oriented quality up to all households. When this physical monopoly infrastructure – in line with it to our roads and our power grid – is open to all competing uses, we are helping to realize the best in our mixed economic tradition. Our ownership in Telenor must be used to ensure this. An alternative may be that physical telecommunications equipment is part of a state-owned undertaking, in line with, for example, Statnet. Today’s lack of development in geographical areas where expansion is not commercially profitable, combined with parallel lines in urban areas, is not a good social economy but involves considerable welfare losses. We have to get better at that. It's easy to harvest. Our territorial advantage through rich natural resources and a knowledgeable population must be systematically developed. Both for large parts of the economy and for a population living in a tougher climate than most in other parts of Europe, it is essential to have stable and secure energy supplies from renewable sources that give us an economic advantage internationally. The commitment of the State budget to renewable energy sources is very joyful, but not sufficient when we know the need to reduce the combustion of oil in business. Through this budget, the Government of the Community’s welfare interests is streamlining. There is an important new course, which is a great uprising of far beyond the ranks of the government parties. Local authorities’ organisation for better schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly will be economically feasible through the government budget. Few people with high income are crying out for more tax havens. The government's priorities are forward-looking and joyful. Due to very large geographical distances, the desire of many young families to live more rurally and a rural population that has a tradition of and knowledge of living and managing the whole country, we have particularly major and crucial challenges in reducing distance constraints both for business and for the population. National transport plan is met this year in terms of road and rail. It is an important stage win, but nothing more, because the need for maintenance of railways, quays and roads is enormous, while many districts have not seen the turn of initial investment in several decades. Norway shall further develop its openness to the international community while ensuring control of the resources of its own house. All the experience from other countries’ unilateral efforts at internationalisation shows that there is a smooth stone to stand on. Society is safer on its own platform, where one has mastery of natural resources and conducts an active ownership policy, with associated duties and rights. In the Central Party, the fall-back institute for our hydroelectric power plants is mountain high. This must, however, continue as today in the bodies of the EEA Agreement, as it guarantees the Norwegian Community's right to rule over a future-oriented and increasingly valuable renewable energy source. When the EEA Agreement was concluded, it was positively stated that it should not affect our law on ownership of power plants. The government must now give clear notice to the main Union countries that we are fulfilling our energy obligations through stable and large deliveries of oil and gas. We're not going to be forced to sell our hydropower. An important feature of Norway is the working conditions of the labour market. We must not specify our model anchored in asserted Norwegian values as respect and complicity between different subjects and responsibilities in the workplace. In today's working life, in the opinion of the Centre Party, it is an excessive import of excessive belief in the importance of management. On the contrary, the key to success of the future will be to respect the competences and interests of different groups and to cooperate across them. Today's trend towards social dumping is a step back to a time we thought we had left behind. In particular, the situation in parts of construction and cleaning has been in focus. Most families experience in their midst that some people feel exposed to unfair competition in the labour market. As a daily example, a taxi centre in Drammen can be mentioned where there is now only one Norwegian taxi owner again. The income situation is due to the competition policies of the authorities, so that only our new countrymen find it economically viable to work in the industry. So we're going to have a segregation in the world of work. Some professions shall not be organised to be economically good enough for ethnic Norwegian youth. We have to counter this kind of development. We do not now need further liberalisation of the service sector, as the EU Services Directive, for example, suggests. What we need, on the other hand, is concrete measures to bring the law back into all parts of the labour market. There is often talk of undeclared work and unprofessional companies to describe the problems we are conversing with in parts of the world of work. This becomes, as the Center Party sees it, too mild to describe the reality of the matter. This is in many contexts about a fight against economic crime, where powerful backers stand behind – ranging from money laundering and trafficking to imports of workers on slave contracts. Through the anti-social dumping package, the Government has already taken action. The Labour Inspectorate has been extended to include sanctions, including: to print the periodic penalty payment. In addition, supervision shall be provided with increased resources. Requirements for ID cards are introduced in Norwegian construction sites. The centre party will pay tribute to the work done by the trade union movement by taking into account the circumstances of the individual workplace. In particular, the Joint Alliance is making a great effort. Nicholas Stern has just delivered a well-documented report on climate change to the British Government. There is no longer any doubt in those who want to take insight into themselves. The scientific evidence is now unambiguous and convincing: climate change is a serious global threat. It is an accepted principle that the polluter should pay. But the level has to be proportionate to the social effects, and not just measured according to the calculations of the economists. Fees, quota trading and regulation must be combined with positive incentives. Local communities, businesses and most people must be given the opportunity to adapt to new and more forward-looking solutions. Manifestations are important in nature, in the financial world, in business and in the labour market. In the Central Party, we are concerned that a forward-looking environmental policy should not have negative consequences in terms of one-sided business, and thus a one-sided working life. We do not have to align ourselves to make the Norwegian economy mainly composed of a high-tech and efficient petroleum sector in addition to the public and private services sector. It will be a miserable political craft, something this government will not be aware of. There can be no doubt that a number of environmental problems can be solved by the renewal of technology and production solutions. As a country, we have a great opportunity to get a significant share of this market with forward-looking environmental technologies. In my hometown, Upper Eiker, the OSO, which makes hot water heaters, is a shining example of this. A stable, long-term family ownership and skilled workers create an increasingly energy-efficient product, with a large international market. It's central to weighing the different interests. Today, we are in a debt-financed demand on the private market that creates significant problems. It's a theme we need to get stronger into. Our international commitment to the budget is exemplary. We show that we want to share with others. We show our international solidarity. Finally, in the view of the Centre Party, the Government's budget is a sober, responsible and good budget, which shows a change in course in important areas. Many have great expectations of the further efforts to comply with the Soria Moria Declaration. It is an advantage for the Government to have impatient support players who are invited to see the whole and participate in the debate on the priorities. In this way, we will also be able to implement the necessary changes in course in several key areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e922	A new Swedish study shows that the Swedish border trade in food products is much larger than the export of food from Sweden to Norway, and it has a huge impact on Swedish agriculture and the food industry. So it's not a very pleasant reading for Norwegian agriculture and the food industry. I wonder if the representative agrees that if Norwegian alcohol taxes and Norwegian food tax had been lower, so that these goods were cheaper, the border trade would have decreased. In this case, why does the representative not do anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e929	It is quite obvious that if the prices of alcohol and food in Norway and Sweden had been the same, the border trade would have been almost zero. However, what is at issue is the weighing-up of other considerations in this regard. We have opted for high alcohol taxes in Norway, which, when other countries have experimented with putting them down, has proved to be a wise policy. We want to have a certain difference in alcohol taxes in Norway and Sweden, at least as long as Norway is outside the European Union. In the case of VAT on food, the lot of the centre is not subject to an increase in the food compartment. However, it is part of the budgetary agreement that has been concluded. We stand by what has been proposed. In the view of the Centre Party, the increase in VAT could have been on other products, with less negative results, but this was the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e938	It could have been fun, since the representative Lundteg brings out the taxi driver, to ask him how many Norwegians pick strawberries in Norwegian fields, but I won't do that. It looks like the Center Party is far from some principles they're usually fighting for. The TAX FUNN scheme shall be tightened. It hits small businesses around the district of Norway very hard. Delegation of concession authority to municipalities in the case of micro and mini-power plants is rejected. But in one area you are relatively predictable, and that is that the freedom of the farmer is consistently rejected. Among other things, I refer to: to the discussion on divisional matters here in Stortinget. The fact that the centre party does not take over is that the death toll is becoming the largest owner group in Norwegian agriculture. It is clearly seen that the policies that have been pursued have not worked and that more money does not help either. The central party is responsible for a policy that largely gives the opposite result to what you want. It should be time to look at things with new eyes, and maybe the Center Party was going to go into a little social education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e947	What the Government is doing with regard to the TaxFUNN scheme is a modest regulatory adjustment. This includes, inter alia: the ceiling for personnel costs and indirect costs is set at 500 kroner per year. hour and that up to 1850 hours may be authorised per day. person. I do not think there is any unreasonable clarification of the tax FUNN legislation, perhaps on the contrary. There are such clarifications that the TAX FUNN scheme can be passed on as a robust scheme. With regard to the freedom of the Norwegian farmer and those working on the earth, it should be a cross of thought for the Right Party that as few practitioners in the industry as one here wants to embrace, trust in the Party is a sign of trust. There must be something fundamental wrong with what you say and how the professionals perceive it. Right-wing policies lead to more government, by decreasing market prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e954	The Christian People's Party is pleased that many of the cuts made by the Government and the Central Party in the draft budget are now reversed. In particular, this applies to higher education institutions, to life courses directed by non-governmental organisations and to grants for the construction of assembly houses and prayer houses. These cuts came in a budget proposal that had more money to distribute than we've ever had. That's why it's nice that the government cuts off volunteer work. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this must not happen again. The voluntary sector is doing a fantastic job and gets a lot out of money. My question to the Center Party is: can the national colleges and voluntary organizations risk new and unexplained cuts in the next round? Or, what will the Center Party do to avoid that happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e961	I like the question. I also feel that the question shows confidence in the government's commitment through the cultural promise, so that's where we agree. What was central to the Government and that is central to the Government at the treatment in the Storting is to listen to the reactions that we get. Among other things, there were strong reactions in the areas to which the representative Tørresdal refers. I believe that the experience of the governing parties in the Stortinget and the members of the Government in this matter requires that there should not be a similar step in the future budget. That's where we've learned how to decorate ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e968	I will not in my line get into the obvious distances it must be through – in many different policy areas – social vision that Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Center Party here expresses, and the modernist in the Workers' Party and partly in SV had to express. It's worth a study. I also understand that there is a need for conciliation in the budgetary work of the Government. It's obvious that there's a great distance. I'm not gonna ask you that. I will not ask about the wish to get Televerket back again. I will await the Government's proposal before I will take that debate. On the other hand, what I would like to ask the representative about is a word he introduced in the consideration of the revised national budget in ours, namely that there is a ‘system error’ in the Norwegian economy that needs to be corrected, saying that a ‘also has to expect to face a tax’ – i.e. in the next year’s budget – ‘that corrects this system error that we have in the economy today’. It is quite crucial and important when a fiscal spokesman for the government parties warns of a system error in the economy that needs to be corrected. Can I ask for a reading guide on where in the budget this system error will be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e982	Interestingly, the fiscal figures of the Left are addressing this issue. This suggests that the representative has taken on board that we have a special challenge with a free capital market across borders, where, in addition, in a situation of a labour market in Norway, we have a tax policy that implies an unlimited deduction of private debt rates. So this means that when private individuals take up many, many, millions of dollars in loans, all the interest costs will be deducted from income. The demand for capital will increase strongly through this, and so we get an activity related to the private sector in parts of the country that are very high. It is a topic that one should go into more detail, which one does not find in this budget, but which any economist eventually sees as a basis for further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e987	This summer I registered that the representative Lundtegen was very upset, among other things. in the media, in view of a view that we should now use more oil money in the Norwegian economy, especially for investment. In particular, Lundtägen, after I was able to bring with me, said that there was a need for further major investments in road and infrastructure, and that he wanted to spend more oil money on it. We now note that Mr Lundtegen is in the majority position today. Does that mean that the limit that the Government has now set in relation to the use of oil money is the limit that the representative Lundtigen also called for and agrees with, or is it such that the representative Lundtigen was engaged in some kind of double communication, where he promises the voters more money for these purposes, while when he is going to enter into settlement in the Government, without any difficulty this gives on the boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e994	The Government and the State have two major investment areas. One is Defense, and the other is Transportation. In the field of transport, where the population is very concerned, the Government has for the first time provided the position that a grant according to the national transport plan. It was the Central Party stage. We are very pleased with that. That's something that we want to develop further. In terms of the use of oil money, we stand by what is the rule of action, and what it involves, while at the same time wanting to focus on how public spending their money. And in our view, we should look forward to larger investments, because it provides forward-looking communication, which is absolutely necessary. But everything has to be balanced, which the Progress Party unfortunately does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1001	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1004	Let me first make a few comments on the replies from the representative Lundteg, who is one of the political spokesmen of the government parties. What we heard here was that his own idea that one should remove the access to deduct interest before tax is not yet taken away by the Government, but is being further worked on, this in combination with a situation where we are obviously in a period of international rise in interest rates, and how many of us – and more and more – fear that we will get a red-green interest rate increase on top of it. People at home who are happy in their house, and who are happy in their workplace, should notice it. Let me start by saying that it must be very nice to be a finance minister in Norway, because rarely is it a more grateful task than what we see right now. Growth in the Norwegian economy is high, employment growth is record high, and unemployment is falling. There are several who are to be credited to, including the Minister of Finance, who have set aside large parts of the SV's economic policy. But there is no doubt that what we see first of all is the results of the conscious economic policy of the previous government over four years. At the discretion of me and the Left, this is also the right policy to bring the country forward: good framework conditions for Norwegian business, continuation of tax reform, commitment to innovation and research, a good school and a forward-looking education policy and an active environmental policy where business development and environmentally friendly behaviour are interdependent and become a competitive advantage for Norway. Rarely has the basis for implementing important and correct changes in Norwegian policy been better than what we see now. Our task is to ensure the well-being of generations after us, to ensure sustainable development and to develop the business life that Norway will live on when the oil age comes to an end. It requires willingness to change. Unfortunately, such a willingness to change is reflected in the Government's 2007 draft government budget. The active business policy is limited to providing tax exemptions for Hurtigruta employees. There is no evidence of future investment – in school, education and research. A new approach to environmental policy is at best the status quo: something goes in the right direction, something goes in the wrong direction. It may seem that bringing the level of taxation back to 2004 levels is the Government’s most important project. The result is that the tax screw is tightened for people with normal incomes and dwellings, while at the same time being phased into record oil money in the public economy. This is a combination that I fear leads to a stronger pressure on interest rates and exchange rates than is necessary. It affects Norwegian business, Norwegian municipalities and not least families in the start-up phase. It's, to quote an unknown working party politician, twice unfair. When a government has record money to spend on the spending side of the government budget, it is obvious that much needs to be done. Therefore, many of the Government's proposals are supported by the Left, and there is reason to commend the willingness to continue stepping up assistance. There is reason to commend a record bet on the railway, although the back of the medal is that it is partly financed by cuts in appropriations for trams, buses and tracks in the big cities. What worries me, however, is that there is no willingness to invest in the future in such an expansive budget: school, education, research and tomorrow's business life are at best fed with mule, whether there are at all positive signals in the government's approach when we also consider all anti-food and research tax proposals. I have to express a slight confusion as well. In the past, government representatives have claimed that it is not on will but on money in the field of research and higher education. Had we only had a little more money, we should bet here too, it was said after the budget was presented. What happens when the government not only gets a little bit more money, but about $4 billion more in new estimates? Not one more penny for research and education. So it was the will and not the money that was crucial anyway – or that someone slept an hour. The Minister of Knowledge, Mr Djupedal, made it clear in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday that the new estimates made in the government’s supplementary proposal are ‘not about any policy fields other than precisely the field of health pay’. It's not exactly a quality sign for the country to have a knowledge minister who believes that 4 minus 2.8 is equal to 0. In this debate, representatives of the government parties will surely boast of great willingness to cooperate with the Storting through a kind of common understanding with the Christian People's Party to change at 105 million. kr in the budget. This is in itself all right and good, but there is reason to point out that it is largely about the additions to different measures that both the Left, the Right and the Advance Party have in their alternative budgets. In our alternative budget, we are re-prioritizing in the left at the base of 7 billion kroner in relation to the Government's proposals. Our option will provide a net tax relief of 434.8 million. kr and a reduction in oil money of half a billion kroner. Therefore, the alternative of the left involves less pressure on the interest rate and the exchange rate than the government provides. The left's draft budget reflects efforts in our four main fields of activity: environment, small businesses, social responsibility and school. The main initiative of the left and the largest expenditure increase are in education and research, with more than DKK 1.4 billion. The government's "sleep cutting" in this field is, in our opinion, unacceptable. The main line of the Left's tax regime is more taxation on consumption and on behaviour harmful to health and the environment and less taxes on work and business, as well as the removal of some special goods linked to special groups. For the Left, it is an objective that Norway should become a first-class knowledge nation. This requires ensuring good and stable framework conditions for initial training, higher education and research. For this reason, the Left proposes a total strengthening of the research, university and higher education sectors at just over SEK 1.1 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. And we're proposing to raise the Research Fund by $40 billion, which will add $1.5 billion more to research every year. For the Left, it is obvious that the welfare society of the future depends on an innovative business. Norway must have companies that succeed in international competition. Good conditions do not come of themselves – it requires bets. Such a bet is shown again in the alternative budget of the Left. We improve the social arrangements for entrepreneurs and self-employed people in order to get more women to invest in their own business, we have several targeted tax proposals, including: increased depreciation rates and improvement of the TAX FUNN scheme. We propose reduced fees to Brønnøysund and investment in nutrient research. The left is of the opinion that the welfare society is measured by how we take care of the weakest. It is not good welfare policy to give more to everyone; good welfare policy is to help individuals who need it. In the draft budget of the Left, we are embarking on two important reforms: publicly funded dental health and a probationary system for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. In addition, we have targeted efforts to respond to drug users, increased efforts to rehabilitate them to get more people into work as quickly as possible, and increased support for single parents and homeless people. In addition, we increase support for those who adopt children to 1G, and give rights to cardboard leave to fathers where mother has not worked enough to have such rights automatically applied. We also propose to extend the feather quota by one week, and record that the government does not follow its own promises from Soria Moria either. We also propose that Norway accept 500 more quota refugees from the United Nations than the Government proposes. The left has the objective that Norway should be a modern environmental nation. The government's draft budget has some good measures for a better environment supported by the Left, and unfortunately some less good proposals provided by the Left in its option to correct. Among other things, the Left strengthens the focus on environmental monitoring, coniferous protection, cultural memory protection and fjord poisoning. In addition, we propose raising the wreckage by NOK 1000 to stimulate a better and more environmentally friendly car park, and we strengthen the public transport reward scheme by SEK 75 million. kr, where the Government proposed a cut. It is obvious that the government is talking to at least two languages in environmental policy. An example of this is the support of the ‘People’s Action New Crustacean Policy’ organisation. The SV-led Ministry of the Environment rejected support because its objectives were not in line with national objectives and international commitments, while the government parties have now found that the organisation can receive support from the Central Part-Directed Ministry of Agriculture, for there are probably some national objectives other than those of the Ministry of the Environment. At least it sounds like this. Finally, I am genuinely concerned about the danger of overheating the Norwegian economy and thus a higher interest rate than is necessary. Therefore, the Left proposes to use a little less of the additional revenue made available to the Government after the budget was submitted. We believe that it is better to be a leader than to pursue a short-term policy that has an unknown cost page in one or two years. I hope that the Minister of Finance is somewhat more nuanced in his view of the challenges of the Norwegian economy than the Minister of Local Affairs Åslaug Haga, who in the Political Quarter thought that the lines of Norwegian policy in terms of investing in more or less well-being are based on whether one would grant half a billion more to the municipalities or a whole billion more to the municipalities than the Government itself thought on 29 September was more than sufficient. There's a reason to remind you that 1 pst. interest rate increase means an additional cost for the municipalities of the country of 800 million. kr. Therefore, the alternative budget of the Left is better suited to the challenges of the Norwegian economy, both in the short and long term. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Left has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1050	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1055	I'm a simple man from the country who likes simple things, and I always like the representative Sponheim. But sometimes it can be too simple. The representative Sponheim has, as you know, been Minister of Agriculture, and he then traveled around Norway and talked about how important it was to produce local brands that were so good that they could actually become export goods. Is that why he wants to cut the aid for the export of Norwegian cheese? But worse than that, what he's proposing is part of the farm business. Is it the case that the former Minister of Agriculture will cut in the middle of the year in a signed agreement? And in relation to the economy: is it not precisely the rule of action, which the Workers' Party proposed and was adopted, that has led to the low interest rate? Sometimes the rhetoric can become too simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1064	I don't know if I'm going to participate in a Grand Prix with the representative of Klungland about who's the easiest. We're going to have to add other arenas than the big hall itself. But to the specific questions, I would first like to say: The left proposes to cut the export aid to Norwegian cheese. We do so after having received good advice from the Party of Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen in his last alternative budget, which is in line with the policy of Rolf Terje Klungland's own government in relation to the WTO, namely that Norway should eliminate export support for cheese. We know that those negotiations might take off in the spring. I think it will be a very offensive action if Norway goes ahead and shows the will to actually do it, not just talk about it, as it is afraid that one is going to do. Technically, it can be done in the way proposed by the Left and also proposed by Kristin Halvorsen in opposition a year ago. As far as the rule of action is concerned, it is important. All honours to the Stoltenberg I government that took the important governance initiative in the Norwegian economy. It is crucial that it is the basis for future use of money – even less use of money in the Norwegian economy requires it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1073	In the alternative budget of the Left, the Party proposes that Norway receive 500 quota refugees in addition to what has been proposed by the Government. It also mentioned Sponheim from the pulpit. The cost calculation for this is 32 million. kr. Statistically and experientially, each quota refugee will bring with him five new family members through the family reunification system, so what we're talking about is 3,000 new refugees who come because of the 500. Norway is already facing major challenges in integrating and settling the refugees that are arriving. We experience that very many quota refugees become permanent recipients. Does the Left have no concern about where these 3,000 new people are to be settled, how they are to be integrated, the cultural challenges involved, or how they should be qualified for the Norwegian labour market? Or does the Left, in fact, believe that accepting quota refugees is only an economic issue determined by the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1082	First of all, increasing the number of quota refugees is following initiatives that we know are being taken by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, that countries need to do more to accommodate refugees who are quota refugees – including our country. That's one of the most important reasons. We think Norway is able to take on a slightly higher proportion of quota refugees — not very large, but a slightly higher proportion. This is the liberal basic vision of asylum and refugee policy. I agree with Mr Tybring-Gjedde that Norway is too poor today in terms of integration. We have a hard job to do, and it's a paradox that we can't get enough housing, get work and integrate refugees in a situation where there are 100,000 job vacancies in Norwegian companies. There's a job to do. I think everyone can get better there. And then, regardless of the route of refugee and family reunification, we must be able to pursue offensive policies on the immigration of the labour force that Norway needs. I think we need that regardless of what is the refugee and asylum route into the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1092	The representative of Sponheim, following the presentation of the budget, and also in the debate today, has previously been concerned about the level of interest rates in Norway. He fears a red-green interest rate shock. Concern about the interest rate is good, and of course it is also shared by the red-green government. Party leader Lars Sponheim asks Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen to pull heavily into the emergency brake, and he fears that we can see 10 pst. during this period of this policy. He believes that we should come up with a index finger on tightening up and not give gas and think in the short term. What the left is doing is reducing the budget by 0.7 per million. What does Sponheim think that a change of 0.7 per million will mean for the interest rate level? Is that the difference between responsible and irresponsible? When Sponheim talks about pulling the emergency brake, I don't know where Sponheim was on the train, whether he came from the dining car or sat and slumbered, but it might seem as if he's pulled the suitcase handle and not in the emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1103	Let me start by saying that I have tried to phrase myself nuanced by saying that I am worried. I even got the Prime Minister to say in the spontaneous question hour that he was also a little worried about the opportunities for us to land incorrectly in this top economic cycle. That should worry everyone. No one can be obtrusive about this, and I have recorded that the governor has increased the frequency of future interest rate increases. So there is probably also some concern in the Bank of Norway. I think that's the basis for that. When it is said that the Ministry of Finance has said that pust, pust, 500 million. kr does not matter, then Kristin Halvorsen has been able to spread a virus in the Ministry of Finance. This is completely alien in relation to what I have experienced over many years, with a fight down to every last million, and it matters to the Norwegian economy. I have absolutely no faith that it is the Department of Finance's professional advice that half billion doesn't matter. This means something, and in that case it's a warning that now we have to go in for a soft landing in a top economy that can have major consequences for people out there. I am given the opportunity, together with the representative Lund Bergo, to follow this development in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1110	The President must ask the representatives to deal with the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1113	First, I would like to comment on Sponheim's response to the representative of Klungland's reply on state aid for cheese exports, because there is no state aid for cheese exports. It is paid by the milk producers themselves through the sales tax on milk products, and thus the discovery proposal from the left error, as we see it. But what I want to comment on in particular is that we record that the Left in its alternative budget goes against the Government's proposal for improvements within the Forest Fund scheme, as described by forest industry organisations as a reintroduction of forest policy in Norway. Although it is regrettable that the Left is opposed to this important district effort, it may not be so surprising since it was Left's Minister of Agriculture Sponheim who had to face the mentioned deforestation of forest policy in his time. What are the measures taken by the Left to increase the necessary harvest in Norwegian forestry when they do not want to use the Forest Fund scheme? Or is it that the Left does not want to bet on forestry as an important district industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1120	First of all, with State aid: it is clear that in the context of the WTO, the aid granted to reduce the prices of Norwegian Jarlsberg cheese is to be regarded as State aid — as part of an overall agricultural policy regime in which huge transfers are made to the dairy farmers. It's a right and a good policy. The government represented Lars Peder Breck here in this Chamber has undertaken to remove this aid, which in the WTO context is State aid. The fact that there is a technique to do that is quite obvious. I have shown a way to do this, after a copy from SV: via mixed mail and agricultural negotiations, to take out support equivalent to this amount and assume that the same turnover tax is reduced – a zero-sum game for the farmer and a minus amount for the agricultural settlement. And then left increases e.g. depreciation rates for machines from 20 to 25 pst. and reduce taxes on wealth also for farmers, so that the income effects are more positive than those presented by the Government. So to the Forest Fund scheme – which I can't answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1127	I must be able to say that summed up is Sponheim's posts a mix of wheezing valley and praise to the Government. I choose to focus most on the latest and record that Sponheim and the Left have come a long way to meet the government parties through the alternative budget, and that they affirm their position as a real centre party. In particular, in the case of the tax and tax system in general, where the left is concerned with the modest amount of 390 million. kr in total tax reductions, which is in a relatively funny contrast to the last years’ tax burden when Sponheim had power. But I think Sponheim also agrees with me that the real contradictions lie in the economic policy between the Progress Party and the other parties here on the Stortinget. Earlier in this debate, Højres Jan Tore Sanner went very far in calling off an experimental policy of the Progress Party in a possible alternative bourgeois government at a later stage, if that were feasible. Is Sponheim willing to go as far as Jan Tore Sanner in cancelling the proposal of the Advance Party and promises to the voters in any future government, where you're going to spend 20 billion, maybe 30 billion more?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1134	To the first part of the line, I would say that in addition to a smaller tax of just under half a billion, the Left goes into its budget for a tax shift of around 3 billion – according to our traditional path of taxation on consumption and environmentally harmful consumption and less on work. It is not least important at a time when there is a shortage of labour. So to the challenge of the Progress Party: It's more natural to take a line with the Advance Party, but I would say on a general basis that the proud tradition of the Left in this room has been for over 100 years to be sober and careful. Rather, we are going to practice a leading attitude towards goods in economic policy and spend less money than we think is sound, than doing the opposite. There will never be a parliamentary situation or any other situation that would mean that we should go at the expense of that principle. I can guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1141	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1144	It's pretty interesting reading to sit down with the financial situation for 2007. I'm going to come back a little bit to how I see the picture among the political parties, also in relation to the opposition. But first I want to focus on saying what is the main direction of the budget that the Government has submitted for 2007. Firstly, it is important to see the great grip our government has taken on prioritising common tasks over tax laws. When up to several speakers from the opposition are very high and dark and prioritise new areas with great glow, they should have cut 12 billion kroner first, because neither the Right, the Christian People's Party nor the Left would have had 12 billion dollars if their financial commitment for 2006 had gone through. So we've provided a room for action by getting back to the 2004 tax level, which gives us 12 billion dollars more next year, and the year after, and that gives us about about this growth period. 50 billion more to well-being. That's the big choice. Actually, we should ask the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to start cutting 12 billion, and they could start talking about what they should prioritize, unless they want to throw the entire economic policy of the previous government right down. The big investment in the common good is to secure a municipal economy that allows all those who have taken on trust locally to sit down and start discussing where to bet next year, instead of the rounds they have now had years out and years into under the previous government, which was about which pool to empty, which libraries should have shorter opening hours, and how many teachers they should quit. It's a new course. Now it's possible to sit and discuss how to add. We see around many municipalities that there will be care workers and teachers of this. I like to get a phone – or a check – from the rapporteurs from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left or the Advance Party, who say that now there was a little bit here, I am sending a few cents in return. This is a change in welfare policy and economic policy well received by more than the red-green ones. There has never been so much spending on kindergartens in any budget, or has been such an increase in kindergartens in any budget. We now have the chance to achieve a promise that young children’s parents have been waiting for a long time, namely to get full child care coverage and the freedom to choose a good nursery place for their children within an economic framework. It's incredibly important, not just because parents need to have a safe place where the children can be while they are at work, but because investing in knowledge and development for the younger ones is one of the most important foundations we can give a human being for life. It is also the case that we have committed considerable resources to various measures for integration and to combat poverty during this budget, because the fact that everyone can participate is an important part of the investment in the future. Last week I visited Ole Brum Barnehage in the Stovner district of Oslo, which now has free core time for four-five-year-olds. This means that many minority children get to know Norwegian culture and Norwegian language. It is important for future value creation. To those who talk a little bit contemptuously about kindergartens as if it were a miserable to bet on knowledge, and that there are only universities that count, I really have to say that they should put themselves into everything we have of research as to what the basis of the first years of life means. Community is therefore a major and important heading of this budget. The next big, important heading is the clear green thread that goes through many sectors. This applies when we propose a transport budget that increases investment by 50 p.m., which is the best rail budget Stortinget has seen for 25 years. This is the case where for the first time it is granted in the hundreds of millions class for the purification of CO2 from gas power plants. Then we run technological and environmental new developments that the whole world can need. This applies when we focus on environmental assistance. This applies when we introduce a NOx fee. This applies when we add the car charges. There are also many other things in the budget. It is time for climate policy and environmental policy to be given much more attention in the economic debate. It is, as Nicholas Stern made clear in his report, much cheaper to prevent and prevent climate crises than it is to sit down and wait for the bill from new hurricanes and new floods. Only the insurance requirements of Hurricane Katrina are 100 billion US dollars. It is almost as much as a Norwegian state budget, and that is five times as much as the demands of the cruel terrorist attacks on Twin Tower on 11 September 2001. We also have a historical commitment to aid, combined with the debt incurred by developing countries to Norway from the old shipping campaign. And we have a clear, new turn in terms of distribution policy. In two years, this government has been able to make greater efforts to combat poverty than the Bondevik government has been able to do in four years. But we're not in the target of combating poverty, we need to have that as a headline on what we're doing all the way. Now we have a labour market that needs a lot of people in work. This means that many of those who had been forced out of work in the past have the opportunity to get a salary instead of going to social assistance or a lower social security. It is important to combat poverty. We have to keep it as a headline all the way. In addition, we need to ensure that the tax system leads to redistribution. It is also a very clear course in this government's policy. We're sharpening our taxes at the top. Those who get the most in tax relief are those with revenues of between 150000 and 200000 kroner. It is true that there are now pressure trends in the Norwegian economy. It is right that we should be very careful and hold on to how much money we allow to spend in the Norwegian economy. It's a pleasure that we have a historically low unemployment rate. Labour market developments are even more enjoyable than when we presented the national budget. The important focus of a red-green government now must be to ensure that a low unemployment situation lasts for as long as possible. Because you've seen examples in the past that a low unemployment rate very quickly rises straight again. That's why it's so important to dimension the use of oil money and land around where the government has landed. And about where the government has landed, the Left, Right, Christian People's Party and the government parties land. There are no major changes in the budget from the Left and the Right. If we look a little bit critical of a couple of discovery proposals they have, as they should and listen, no one can see any difference. The representative Sponheim does not have to insinuate that I am sitting and – what to say – decorates on professional assessments of the budgets of others. The answers from the Ministry of Finance, which are just about that, are to be trusted. So let's think about what's the situation when the opposition presents its alternative budgets. Firstly, I think it is very alarming that we cannot get a very clear answer from the Right on whether, if they were to regain government power again after 2009, they will make an ultimate claim to the Progress Party that 30 to 40 billion kroner are not being moved over what the Right, Left and Christian People's Party believes is responsible policy. Because if the starting point is, as the Right quite rightly says, that every time they negotiate with the Advance Party, it has happened, and we peel $37 billion from the alternative budget of the Progress Party, then only right-wing policy is left. Then there are no additions and only right-wing policies left. If it were to be the case that the Progress Party would have an impact on the situation in today's economy, and carry out the experiment that Leirstein offered here instead, then we are in the situation that if the interest rate were to go up 1 percentage point – that's a very careful estimate – and people have 1 million. Indebtedness, for everyone with income below NOK 600 000, it would cost more that the Progress Party was able to implement some of its addition proposals, because their taxes are eaten up completely and well. So the exercises that the Advance Party is trying to do here today, that they're so much easier on the tax and that therefore you can tolerate a little bit more on the interest rate, it's with respect to reporting just spray. And this is a careful estimate. Should interest go up by 2 percentage points or 3 percentage points, people can just double etc. ==References== It's bad economic policy for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1187	I note that the Minister of Finance has found evidence of the interest effects of the economic policy of the Progress Party. I find that no professional economists have started talking about the interest rate going up either 2 or 3 percentage points, as the Minister of Finance insinuates. But now leave that debate to be held. There's something I want to record. I note that the Minister of Finance has now used his office to rely a little on the proposals of the Progress Party. As is well known, the Progress Party has a strong focus on improving the efficiency of the public sector, in particular with a view to reducing red tape. The Ministry of Finance has also been made to look at the consequences. In many ways, it will be like putting the goat to look after the oatmeal to ask the Ministry of Finance to look at the consequences of reducing and cutting red tape. The answer is well given in advance. Does it mean, then, that the Minister of Finance, in reply to us, is not going to confirm that this is not going to mean fewer annual works? Is it comfortable, then, that the efficiency of state activities should not mean that there should be fewer annual works, while the Government writes in the same State budget that there is a significant potential for efficiency in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1197	It is very alarming if not the Progress Party is now ready to take their own proposals seriously. We have. That is why we have gone through what it will mean to implement the cutting-off proposals proposed by the Progress Party in the areas of the Tax Agency, the Tolletata and the Central Collection of the State, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The most alarming thing will be to cut in annual work – that is, with the kind of cut proposed by the Progress Party – which is very much in control of tax evasion, tax crime and smuggling. When we calculate the impact of this, if the proposals of the Progress Party go through, it could mean NOK 5-6 billion more in tax sneezing. So the Progress Party says when we say that this costs annual work, that it will lead to so many simplifications that there won't be so much to control. Well, well, if the alcohol charges go down by some percent, it might still be that some people try to bring cannabis and heroin across the border, and it's a good idea that there's some customsmen there. In any case, there are some taxes left on alcohol. In any case, the tax arrangements proposed by the Contracting Party will require control. So here it is simply so that the concrete policies of the Progress Party do not tolerate the light of day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1206	The President will point out that a line is 1 minute – the answer too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1209	Governments are wrong about the Right Tax Policy. Lower taxes have been shown to give more to the community, to increase the supply of work and to promote value creation. It was also supported by a report presented in Denmark yesterday. However, I would like to challenge the Council of State on a theme that interests her, and that is knowledge in the school. Yesterday, SV's party leader Kristin Halvorsen went out and complained to the Norwegian people that in the election campaign she had been too busy with free food and too little knowledge of the school. Today, we are adopting a budget which means that it is cut in knowledge and that research is deprived of priority. The penitentiary that Kristin Halvorsen did would have been respected if she had taken the consequences of it. One has to ask the question when Kristin Halvorsen says that she is so concerned with knowledge and research: is it then the Minister of Education who has downgraded higher education and research, or is it simply so that when it comes to the matter, the Minister of Finance is not willing to give priority to knowledge and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1218	What I've said to our government this weekend is that I think many misunderstood SV's policy as being much more concerned with everything that wasn't about the professional content of the school, like food and all sorts of other things. But that's not the same thing as saying that it's wrong to think, for example. a new and longer school day for the youngest. On the contrary, it stands as a goal in the Soria Moria Declaration. What we know at least clearly is that we have a lot left to invest in a few more lessons for the younger ones. It is one of the reforms that are now ahead of us and that we are going to be able to achieve in the future. Then we'd like to see it together with both food and physical feeding etc. It may be the most important reform we can have on the knowledge side in the future. Of course, the SV and the Government must also clearly justify this as a very important investment for knowledge, not for anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1225	The Christian People's Party is concerned that small and medium-sized enterprises should have good living conditions, because this is the very principle of our business. Therefore, we noted SV’s nextleader, Øystein Djupedal, his response in an online meeting in the newspaper just before the 2005 big shot. The question was: what would SV do for the private small businesses? The answer was: ‘We will have a grant from the founder, a better depreciation rate for investment in technology and a lower employer’s fee. The most important thing for small businesses, too, is that knowledge is properly invested. I'm really burning for this." So we see that in the budget, SV tightens strongly when it comes to small businesses' possibilities for research and development, they say no to make generational shifts easier, osb. My question is, is Firen SV's commitment to small businesses in the 2005 election campaign, or is there any hope of seeing a more and better commitment to value creation in small businesses in the coming budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1237	First of all, I think it's very interesting to see the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, because it's just a variant of the government budget that the red-green government has presented. It testifies to a political relationship that is closer to us than many other parties in this hall. The representative Syversen also felt that there was a burst in his blood, so I would really say that I am well pleased with it. So so bad it can't be, if Sørfonn is now going to be right in that this piercing valley is right. Firstly, we have a very clear focus in this budget, and that is what small and large companies are saying is their biggest challenge now, that they need labour. That's what essentially determines whether they can expand production, whether they can take all the orders they have. That's why we have a very clear focus on it. The second clear focus, which is also an area where business is very clearly heard by our government, is on transport policy. There has not been such a good budget for transport in very, very many years. Many entrepreneurs and small businesses, especially in the districts, have said that there are difficult bottlenecks for them. Therefore, there are important priorities in this budget – and good industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1248	The Council of State is both the Minister of Finance, the party leader in SV and the representative of Oslo. She's presenting a budget. After first having 12 billion kroner available, she received a harvest gift of 4 billion kroner. She has systematically managed to downgrade one of the most important things, such as: The SV and the Left have a common commitment to research, to acquire knowledge for future generations, to ensure that we have the basis for the unborn business. It's happening all over the country. But it is particularly hard in this part of the country, for example. in the case of TAX FUNN, which is the mechanism which gives SMEs considerable power. I want to say this: first you have $12 billion, and then you can't follow up on the research effort that SV would have in opposition, and that the government has in Soria Moria. Then you get an extra NOK 4 billion – that is, more than you need to cover the sick pay bill – and then you can't bet on the research either. Is it so that it is not only the ability, but also the will that was actually locked in a pit on Soria Moria when it was about research?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1257	I think it is surprising that the Left has had such a narrow vision of knowledge since the last time I met them in debates. There is, of course, a strong commitment to knowledge in this budget. The bet on kindergartens is not something that should be flirted with as far as knowledge is concerned. The massive investment in the municipal economy relates to schools, primary and secondary schools around. Now let's at least agree that it's an important part of the knowledge effort. So it's right that it's 1 pst. real decline in universities and higher education. But that's also how the Stortinget recently received a report from the National Audit Office that shows that universities and colleges have NOK 2.3 billion on book, and it increased in the last year. It's something you should be interested in looking at. So it's not true that research is cut. It's an increase in research. We are strengthening the Research Fund, even though the effort is not as great as the Left would have liked.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1266	It was interesting to hear from State Council Halvorsen's fairy tales of the Progress Party's policy. They probably turn on the SV national government, but you should be a little more honest and a little more serious when you get to the staging room. But I'll leave it now and go back to the rule of action, because that's interesting. I want answers, because I've asked Kristin Halvorsen similar questions many times. The government claims that the only responsible use of oil money is 800 million. kr more than what the rule of action requires. The left believes it's 300 million. kr more. The Right Party, on the other hand, believes that both the Government and the Left are irresponsible. They're going to spend 500 million. kr less than that required by the rule of action. Does the Council of State believe that the Left and Right parties are more financially responsible than the Government itself is? Does the Council of State believe that the careful use of oil money by these parties is detrimental to public welfare? Or is it the way Schjøtt-Pedersen said from the pulpit that this doesn't matter, because the tailor economists in the Ministry of Finance have found out that it doesn't matter to spend SEK 1.3 billion more or less?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1275	It's not an exact science to try to calculate that there's exactly $1 million that makes you kind of overheated or in danger. But we are about there as the Left, Right, Christian People's Party and the government parties, when we are going to conduct a responsible policy for next year. So those who come out of this debate are the Progress Party. I have to say the Progress Party takes very easy on what it will mean to spend NOK 37 billion more in the Norwegian economy in today's situation. It has nothing to do with the rule of action. It has to do with the situation in the Norwegian economy in the first place, and that we lack labour. If you try to get 37 billion more, and you don't have people to do the job, it'll be very easy for interest rates to go up, for the dollar to increase, and for the cost to rise in general. If the interest rate goes up by just one percentage point, and you have $1 million in loans, it's going to be $7,000 more in ordinary people's expenses. There is no calculation of the impact of the alternative budget of the Progress Party, because it would be a far too conservative calculation of an effect. But what the Progress Party is now doing is gambled with the largest economic cost item for ordinary people, especially those who are in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1282	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1286	After the elections last autumn, we have received a new policy course and a new direction of social development in Norway. The red-green government wants something different with our society than the previous government. Valuation, community solutions and safe welfare systems for all are our guiding principles. The work of the government and the government on next year's government budget contributes to supporting the country's good economic development. We are pursuing a responsible economic policy that does not increase the pressure on interest rates. We implement strong measures, including: in the transport, innovation and labour market with a view to increasing value creation and employment. In addition to the large investment in welfare areas such as kindergartens and schools, which are important in itself, we also provide the basis for long-term economic growth. The budgetary procedure confirms once again that there are two important and fundamental lines of distinction between the parties in economic policy. The first difference concerns the use of oil money. The second major difference between batches is the priority between tax relief and the development of Community solutions. A large majority of the parties on the Stortinget stand for a responsible economic policy. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right have presented alternative budgets which, like the government's draft budget, do not increase the pressure on interest rates. In economic policy, one of the parties is distinguished from this. It's the Progress Party. The party of progress seems to be living in its own economic world. Notwithstanding economic realities or economic contexts, the lot will increase the use of oil revenues by approximately NOK 23 billion, plus the cancellation of toll companies and a number of other things. In a situation of very high activity in the economy, there's only one thing to say about this; it's completely irresponsible. The policy of the Progress Party will certainly lead to higher interest rates for households, businesses and municipalities, and will mean reduced employment in Norwegian industry. The second major and important difference between the parties in economic policy is the choice between tax relief and the development of welfare services. Here the Right Party and the Advance Party find each other, while the Christian People's Party and the Left are closer to the government parties. The right-hand batches continue to propose significant tax reliefs, with similar reductions in welfare. On the other hand, I note that the Christian People's Party and the Left are at the level of the Government's tax and tax system. That, of course, also gives these parties the opportunity to propose common well-being. There is also an expression that the main dividing line in the view of the welfare society is still going between the right-hand parties on one side and the central and left-hand parts on the other. Government parties are committed to care for the elderly, school, health and culture. Historical uplifts are taking place, not least in the transport sector and the kindergarten sector. Our government keeps the promises in the national transport plan, both in terms of road, and in terms of rail. And with the big effort now coming to kindergartens, full kindergarten coverage is within reach. Our government is following the cultural promise, and the efforts for international solidarity and assistance have never been greater. The municipalities are our foremost welfare provider. It is in the municipalities that the change of government may be felt most strongly. Overall, the adjustment of income estimates will mean that the income growth rate for the municipal sector in 2006 and 2007 can be estimated at approximately DKK 18 billion, of which DKK 5.5 billion is the current year’s tax revenue increase. This gives a new reality to the local populace. Through the large increases in the allocations to municipalities this year and to next year, they can strengthen welfare and care provision across the country. Municipalities can develop care for the elderly and can upgrade the schools. And it's going to be large-scale kindergartens. Of course, the right-wing rapporteurs – and the rapporteurs from all parties – are pleased with increased transfers. Right-wing rapporteur Amund Enge of the Etne municipality said to the Nations last week: ‘I have been in politics for 15 years. This year's the first time we're cut off in the budget. In the past, we've always had to lay down a school or do other unpopular grips. The reason is that the state has released the suffocating roof in the municipalities.’ The 2007 budget shows that government parties continue to honour the promise that the large amounts of money will be spent on the major societal tasks. It's a deliberate political choice, giving the government room to strengthen its well-being. Government parties choose well-being over tax relief. It also provides room for the significant strengthening of different welfare sectors. The government parties wanted a good dialogue with the opposition. We have reached agreement with the Christian People's Party on many good proposals through the consideration of the budget by the Storting. In particular, I am pleased that the bulk of the population strengthens voluntary purposes such as higher education and drug care. This is also supported by most parties in the opposition. I also think it is worth commenting that the Stortinges budgetary procedure this autumn has been in order and calm form, without dramatic budget negotiations in late hours of the night. Government parties have been responsive to businesses and organisations that have met for consultations related to the draft budget, as well as to other parties on the Stortinget, as already mentioned. There are several speakers who have pointed out today that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. The budget adopted today is an important contribution to the further development of the Norwegian welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1322	I note that the representative Solberg says that the budget negotiations themselves have taken place in calm forms here at Stortinget. How calm it was before the budget was presented in the government parties, the representative Solberg said nothing about it. We'd better think about that. I note that the Progress Party has a number of characteristics, including: We are irresponsible with our economic policies. It did not come as a bomb that the Labour Party's parliamentary leader believes it. However, I note that an increasing number of elected and elected representatives in the Labour Party are actually taking up the same issue as the Progress Party is proposing in the Stortinget. Among other things, at Troms Arbeiderparti's annual meeting, to take one example, the head of the County Council from the Workers' Party went out and thought it was time to use more of the oil fund. He says, among other things: that it must be better to transform real values into roads, race protection and other infrastructure we need to build the future. I have seen several examples from workers' party elected and elected people who believe it. Does the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party consider trust elected and elected by the People's Party to claim the same as the Progress Party, as irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1331	First, I would like to say that the basis of the economic policy that the Government governs, and that, in fact, all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, governs, is the rule of action. It's a rule that we spend more oil money every year. It follows from the rule of action that we use more, but within a clear limit of how much the economy can bear. Then people ask for more money for transportation. Yes, the Labour Party's trustees are very concerned with transportation. I must be allowed to stress that the budget adopted here today is actually the first budget to honour the promises of the national transport plan. It was also the subsidiary position of the Progress Party in relation to transport in the previous period. Achieving the promises to road and rail is the confidence of the Workers' Party in the counties very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1338	I agree with the Minister of Finance and also with the last speaker that the most important thing about this budget is how it works in the economy, especially for most people. Does it help to increase the interest rate pressure, or to dampen it? In a speech on 25 January, the Minister for Finance said: ‘In a situation of high capacity utilisation, it is important that budgetary policy does not contribute to further pressures in the economy.’.» In the same talk she announced that in the years ahead you could be under the 4-pst rule of action. in the case of the use of oil money. The current budget does not do this, and we are told that the budget will increase the pressure on the economy. At the same time, nothing is being done to increase access to labour. My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is therefore: What has changed in terms of the pressure in the Norwegian economy since January this year? And is it that more of the responsibility for cyclical governance is now left to monetary policy, i.e. the Bank of Norway, whose only instrument is interest rate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1350	Let me first say that the representative Foss has a past as Minister of Finance. He has proved to be a quite capable fortune-teller, for when he sat in the Ministry of Finance, he outlined an interest rate development for several years to come. If you go back and check it, it's turned on. Today’s interest rate level is completely identical to that outlined by former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss as the likely level of interest rates at the end of 2006, so that there has been no post-government change that has changed the development of economic policy in this area, in addition to what was former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss’ outlook for interest rate developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1355	So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1360	Then it is that the Government has submitted a budget that we believe is in line with a responsible economic policy. It's also true that it could be years when it's right to deviate from the exact 4 pst. in the economic policy resulting from the rules of action. The budget under consideration today is a responsible budget, and the deviation from the regime of the parties to the Right is minimal and would have no real impact on the development, either in terms of interest rates or other economic parameters, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1365	Jon Lilletun said a few years ago during the budgetary procedure that a good budget had improved. The Christian People's Party would like to repeat the last part of this. The budget has improved during the mainstreaming process this time, not least in terms of volunteering. But it hasn't gotten better for everyone. Today, employment stops exist in the state child protection system, which has implications for the recruitment of foster homes, the staffing of child protection institutions and the follow-up of municipal child protection workers. The queues of children in need of child protection measures are growing. A report from the Municipal Audit Office shows that the Child Protection Service in Oslo has failed to check 2000 concerns. The Christian People's Party proposed 50 million in its alternative budget. kr more for the protection of the State’s children, because it is necessary. Doesn't the Labour Party see the problems in the state child protection? What will the Government do in relation to this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1374	First of all, I would like to say that it would be very bad if the parties' management of the submitted budget at Stortinget were to lead to a poorer budget. I guess we always have to assume that when we make some changes in common here in the Storing, we do that in order for us to achieve an even better result. To what is the concern of the representative, Mr Tørresdal: I think that is a concern that many parts share. There are a lot of alarming signals about the development of child protection. This takes the Government the most seriously. Strengthening child protection is also proposed in the budget. I am convinced that in the years to come, we must pay considerable attention to the situation in the field of child protection, for here we have received many alarming signals about development, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1381	Let me first say about the answer to the representative Per-Kristian Foss: since the previous government presented its forecasts, we have been able to record that the governor has increased the signals of more frequent interest rate increases. I think everyone will believe that there are more red lights flashing in Norwegian economy today than it was a year ago. I think the government should have taken more seriously. My question to the parliamentary leader of the largest party is on this autumn's budgetary procedure. I expect that she is also concerned about how Parliament deals with the budget. We have escaped the usual minority government needs for negotiations in Stortinget – in and out of meeting in secret places, as the representative Solberg and I have been with at times. I think it can represent an advantage and provide clarity in the lines of policy. But we have seen something else instead, namely that the government, after the budget has been presented, has gone out and entered into similar meetings and negotiated with the social partners about changes in the budget. We sat in Stortinget and saw that Stortinget's treatment took place outside this house, until we got a clarification one month after the budget was presented. Does the parliamentary head of the Workers' Party see any concern about the budgetary procedure for this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1389	With regard to the first representative, Sponheim, I think it is also a strength for the Stortinge opinion that we are able to implement the budgetary management here in a neat and proper way. This has not always been the case with the minority regimes of different governments. So the situation we had in the harvest related to the health pay and the IA agreement was special. But the important thing is that the matter has been resolved in a very good way, and a way in which the political parties have been involved, namely to continue and secure the IA Agreement, while the Government has implemented what is the responsibility of the Government, namely the budgetary implications of this Agreement. So that case I believe has been handled in a very good way, and it has not in any way created any problems for the Budgetary Management of the Storting. The budget has been adjusted to the size of the budget and it has provided the basis for the position to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1396	It would have been surprising if the head of the largest government party had not said that she was satisfied with the budgetary procedure. But with respect to reporting, the noise has only continued, but moved to other spaces, and perhaps more noise between the government parties and between the government parties and the government than what has been used to. I asked a question in my first line that I would like to repeat, because the representative Solberg did not answer. What has changed since January in terms of the pressure in the economy, and is it that when the budget increases domestic demand, to quote from the budget paper, it will also increase the interest rate pressure and leave more of the business cycle management to the Bank of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1403	First to the noise. I believe – in fact, I believe that the Right Party also believes – that we in this country tolerate having a discussion both in the Stortinget, outside the Stortinget, parties between them, etc. It tolerates a solid democracy like ours. It will be very strange here in the country on the day it's museum quiet, that we have nothing to debate, and that what Per-Kristian Foss calls noise, is completely removed from the Norwegian public debate. So we can take that. Then to the budget. The budget submitted has been adjusted according to the economic situation at the time the budget is presented. A reference is made to January, but the government did not finalise its budget in January. It was finalised in August to September, and the financial framework in the budget is in line with the reality that the Government saw at that time, and which one also believes is a proper level of action to be taken in dealing with the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1410	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1413	I needed to correct an obvious misunderstanding in the latter speaker. As far as I can see, the budgetary procedure in the Government was not completed in August to September. It was completed at the beginning of November, when the last parts of the non-parliamentary negotiation process, which this year was the main contribution to the budgetary procedure, were completed, through the conciliation between the IA Contracting Parties. I understand that there is a need to talk nice about processes. I guess we've never had a more special budgetary process than the one we've had this autumn. But the right has a project. We have a goal for our policies, and it's to help shape a society that provides opportunities for everyone, because that's what helps to create both public and private well-being. This is what helps people to make use of – that we strengthen the country, build the foundation and the culture of innovation. That is what politicians should stimulate. It requires a policy that makes it possible to maintain good jobs today, while laying the foundation for even better jobs in the years to come. The world around us is changing faster, and the changes are more extensive than before. Not so many people take on the fact that from 1990 to today the number of people involved in world trade has doubled, from one and a half billion to three billion people. What's happening around us hits us with much greater strength than it's done before. It means that we have to change, and we can't face the changes we're looking out there, by stabbing our heads in the sand and hoping that this goes over. Global competition cannot be eliminated by means of protectionism, isolationism or customs barriers. It requires a strategy for future-optimism, not what I feel the government has, a strategy for future-specificism. The conversion doesn't have to be the end of anything good, it might as well be the start of something better. I believe that Norway can assert itself in global competition, and I am optimistic on behalf of Norway. I think we can be one of the world's best countries to live for the next 20-30 years, if the politicians decide now to take over what's going on around us, and prepare us for it. Because it doesn't come of itself. In the future, we have to spend our big money making the country rusty for the future. The possibilities lie ahead of a policy that enables us to better arrest them. The government has used to say that in the budget we're going to spend the big money on the big tasks. But I see basically just the big words of the big problems, and very little priority for the future. It is also disappointing that the government is giving priority to consumption today rather than investment for the future. We can't wait until we have full child care coverage and the children who go to kindergarten now come out to work until we introduce knowledge, requirements and quality in school and higher education. We can't take rest cuts in the research effort when we're already at the back of both two and three rounds. We cannot postpone the realization of the knowledge society when we know that China and India are breathing into our necks in advanced things like nanotechnology, but also in goods and services production in many areas. The government's policy differs from the Right's policy on several points, but perhaps the most important point is that we will shape the future. We are not passive about how developments around us are happening, we are giving priority to investing in people, knowledge, research, innovation and infrastructure. We invest because conversion and willingness to change also mean that we have to make people equipped to cope with this future society. This is why we are focusing on the development of skills for students, but also for adults. In the years to come, it is even more important than before that we let all good forces escape. The need for security and care will increase, and the pursuit of the good solutions must therefore be more important than ideological cowards. The government’s allergy to private and voluntary solutions will make it more difficult for people to receive a customised offer when they need public assistance, whether in terms of health, rehabilitation, care or school services. If we're to avoid people becoming caste balls in public, we can't let outdated principles outrun sensible arrangements, as the government does. In many areas, we now see that others have to push the government to put ideological bargains aside in order to find good solutions. The right is always on the side with the good solutions, and not on the side of ideological bargains.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1435	I do not know whether or not this affects a coup d'état of the Right, but I would like to ask the representative, Solberg, a question relating to the budget presented by the Right in terms of international solidarity and assistance. The right was a member of a government that, like the current government, aimed to get up to a level of aid of 1 pst, and we had the impression that the previous government, of which the Right was a member, was also very concerned about helping the world's poorest. Now, when we look at the Right again in the opposition, they're a little bit where they were before, and they create alternate budgets at, among other things. cutting aid. So they can afford to give tax relief to the Right, but they still think it necessary and proper to implement cuts in aid to the world's poorest. Then one is left with a question as to whether it is so that it was actually the Christian People's Party that kept right in the ears of the previous government, which made them have a strengthening of aid, and whether the Right now has fallen a little back to old sins and creates alternative budgets by cutting in aid. In any case, it cannot be the situation in the Norwegian economy that has made it necessary for the Right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1442	I'm very proud of the overall arrangement we've made in our state budget to contribute to the development of the Third World. There are three key areas in which all developing countries are asking for support: there are three key areas on which the entire international opinion is talking in terms of creating economic development in the Third World. One is indebted. There we follow the Government – we think the Government is doing a good job of getting stronger on debt, and they are getting our support for it. Then it's help. We're increasing aid compared to our own proposal last year, but we're not increasing it as much as the Government. And then we do something quite dramatic different than what any other parties in this room do, we take the ceiling that developing countries have asked us to do, namely reduce our customs rates for developing countries. Today, the 50 poorest countries have free customs access to the Norwegian market. We will ensure that all developing countries will have free market access to Norway with the main weight of their goods during a step-by-step period next year. It will contribute significantly more than the small difference between our regime and the regime of the government parties in terms of development in developing countries measured in aid. It's trade they're asking for – much more than assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1453	Right-wing wants a slimming of the agricultural budget and a deregulation of production. In the proposal in this year's budget, which I understand is just a first step on the road, they will, as you know, reduce the income level by approx. NOK 30,000. Right now, side by side – yes, many will actually say in front – the Party of Advancement in a desire to deregulate production. In this context, I would like to ask about the issue of customs exemption. It states that the current tax exemption for LDCs, MULs, is to be extended to a further 90 countries. My question is: Will the 90 countries also include Argentina and Brazil, and has the Right calculated the impact it will have on the price level of agricultural production in Norway and the price that Norwegian farmers will be able to achieve in the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1460	This was an interesting debate technique. Firstly, I will answer what the representative asked for. No, it is also stated in the budget option – if you have read it through – that we exclude sensitive agricultural products. Yes, that means that Argentina and Brazil and Latin American countries will have market access, but not for what needs to be defined as sensitive products, precisely because we should not have too rapid changes for Norwegian agricultural production. But I think we could tolerate a little more imports from these countries too. When the representative tries to claim that we are in front of the Progress Party, I have to ask: Can you count? The Progress Party has four times as much cuts in agricultural subsidies as we have. We haven't said that this is a first step in the reduction. We have said that this is the reduction in the level, and we have said that we justify that we will release the farmers from much of the regulations imposed on the individual ambitious, forward-looking farmer by the Senter party and the agricultural administration, and like for example. contribute to the elimination of unnecessary barriers to co-operation and other development measures in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1469	For many of us, it is surprising to note that the Right is seeking to balance its budget line precisely with cutbacks in aid – not least after you have been with the Left and Christian People's Party in a government that has had an explicit ambition to achieve the same goal, on 1 p.m., from which this government is also working. Then I hear the representative Erna Solberg's answer to the question from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg and record that it is like the traditional response of the Progress Party to reduce customs duties instead of proposing appropriations. Is what the right here proposes in the budget an approach to the Progress Party with a view to softening future cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1477	We are increasing the aid budget by 2.5 pst. Next year. It's a little bit smaller than the government does, but it's about $8 billion more in assistance than the Progress Party has. So we're responding to what the developing countries are asking for, and I want to say that I'm a little surprised by this high tone from those who don't respond to the prayers of the developing countries, and who think it's better that we just give assistance. We say we both need to give aid and increase trade, because as we increase trade while we provide assistance, it has a long-term, good effect. If we block the countries from our markets and only provide assistance, we continue to rely on the aid that I believe is very unhealthy both for the sense of nationality, for self-respect and for self-respect in many of the developing countries. And I think over time our exclusion from the market is also a security risk in relation to the world development we see. I think that the world's development will be significantly better by the changes we make on the customs side than it will be by that billion and a little bit more like the other parties have more in hand. The long-term effect is getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1484	I could also be tempted to talk about the unsocial aid shots that the Right puts up, the unsocial taxes that I think the Right gives, and the increase in the kindergarten rates. But instead I can imagine spending my time saying that the Right should be praised for actually prioritizing. They show the differences between their policies and our policies by giving different priorities. Lars Sponheim was rather clocky in stressing that accuracy should be the basis for any cooperation that Left entered into. Jan Tore Sanner was hacked more wool. Therefore, I would like to ask a very simple question to the representative of Solberg, and that is: is it not up to Erna Solberg to enter into a cooperation with the Progress Party if they require to run the kind of unsocial interest rate increase policy that underpins their alternative approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1491	I note that the representative Heikki Holmås believes that it is unsocial to give minimum pensioners in large houses lower taxes, that it is unsocial to give people in full work with low and quite ordinary incomes tax relief, and that it is unsocial to give trade openings to developing countries, despite what they are asking for, especially all the new Latin American left-wing leaders, who SV otherwise tend to cultivate so much in other debates. I think it's social to help people stand on their own and be able to pay their bills, and to provide a level of taxation for ordinary income and for pensioners with poor finances. I think that's good. We're always going to have a responsible economic policy. It's part of the Willochske spinal cord reflex in the Right Party. We're going to do that, and I think all the partners know that we do. We've done that in all of the governments we've been in, and we're going to do that in all of the governments we're going to sit in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1498	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1501	We've been presented with the best government budget in the history of Norway. Of course, it's because we're blessed with a lot of natural resources, which makes us good at money in this country. But it's not least that we choose to turn these natural resources into well-being. So we're transforming natural resources into well-being. What then characterizes this government, as opposed to the previous one, is that we get a new direction by the fact that it is the common good that is to be given priority over private wealth. That is probably the most important change in this budget compared to the budget proposed by the Bondevik Government in its time. In this room there have been many important historical decisions, and there have been many milestones, if one will use that word. I would like to make two milestones in this budget. One is that it is now over that someone is in a nursery queue. A few years ago, everyone was entitled to high school. Now it's like all kids can go to kindergarten. And you'd like to talk about it like this: you used to be in a kindergarten queue. Now it's like everyone who wants can go to kindergarten. It's a historic milestone. Another historic milestone is that we have come from words to action in relation to the largest climate noise we have, namely CO2 emissions. We've been talking about the warming that happens over many years, we've been looking at glaciers that melt, we're still getting reports from different institutes that say that the worst climate noise we have is overheating, and CO2 is the biggest emission in that way. So now this government has decided to do something about it, and you've started a serious, real project with Statoil, where you have to clean up CO2. It's not just something that benefits Mongstad, it will also benefit a number of other similar facilities, both domestically and abroad. It's going from word to action to take the climate challenges seriously. So I'll take up two other things that I think are extra happy in the budget. One is that we, as one of the world's richest countries, live in – we live in the heart of the inner file – actually manage to keep the tab high for the weakest, for the poorest, both by being willing to clear debts, and by being willing to spend over $2 billion more, so that we pass $20 billion in aid. I have to say that it is important that we actually manage to see the difference between the poverty that some people experience in our home country and the bottomless poverty that we see in some developing countries. It is not comparable, and therefore, as a very rich country, we should always have the tab high to give it monks to developing countries. I'm very pleased that the Government has presented a budget that helps to give a formidable boost in this way. And then finally, I have to talk about the hunch that I always have, and that's district policy. District policy is the main reason why I am at Stortinget, and for many SVs it is unusually important that we manage to develop it. We know that Norway is a small country, Norway is so small that if we had gathered the entire population between Drammen and Gardermoen, it would still be scattered. It's no more than a suburb to London, the population concentration we have. But that is not Norway. Norway's soul lies in the fact that we have been able for many years to take care of the entire settlement, from Nordkapp to Lindesnes. That is why it is so good that we in this budget too have managed to make a number of important promises in rural policy. We've got a Northern Territory bet that's formidable. It is important in view of a part of the country that is threatened with relocation, but it is also important in view of the strategic conditions in the northern regions. In addition, strong efforts by both finance ministers and local government ministers have made it possible to recover the differentiated employer’s fee — the probably most important regional policy instrument that Norway has had. Unfortunately, we lost it a few years ago, and this government has managed to get it back by working hard. It's very good that it's in place, and it's very important for District Norway. This budget is an important step towards achieving the objective set out in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1530	In the election campaign, SV led a rhetoric that one would take the richest, one would skin the richest with taxes. There is a lot of evidence that SV has changed its attitude a little. There is enough evidence that SV is also in the process of realizing that capital and the richest move where the framework conditions are best, so that in many cases tax increases for the richest in the country can mean a reduction in tax revenue for the country, and thus not an increase in tax revenue. There is also a recently published Danish study that confirms. On the other hand, they have received an increase of DKK 400000 in income in the form of a sub-regulation of the peak tax entry point. 65000 have received additional top taxes because of this. My question to Ryan's representative is whether a person with income above NOK 400,000 is a rich person who has to be taxed in the form of a higher tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1537	At first I think you have to understand the importance of paying taxes. This is one thing that I think both the representative Hagesetter and I have to be able to discuss in different forums. I know he wants to say that you have to pay the minimum tax, and then you have to have little to the community. SV is concerned that we have to pay taxes according to our ability. An income of NOK 400000, as the representative asks, is an acceptable income, and tax is payable in relation to that income. Do you pay too much or too little tax today when you make 400,000 dollars? I think you pay approx. correct in tax today when you have 400000 kroner in income. We believe that the tax on the lowest income could have been slightly reduced. That's something that we in SV continue to work on, that's that there's going to be a reduction in taxes on the very lowest income in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1544	It was nice to hear that the main representative of Inge Ryan had to rejoice in district policy was a political breakthrough towards the EU that took place under the previous government, as has also been announced to the Stortinget in several documents. This applies to the differentiated employer’s fee. However, my question is, as far as district policy is concerned, why the representative Ryan does not have the opportunity to enjoy the higher depreciation rate for the industry, which the industry in the districts, as elsewhere, has asked, and which is actually also in the SV's programme. The finance minister has replied that this is not relevant when it goes as well as it does in the economy today. Today, she replied that as we are now more on the road, it is not necessary, and when the labour force is more important, it is not necessary either. My question is: when is it necessary in the Norwegian economy to realize the bit of SV's programme that goes at higher depreciation rates for industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1551	It is quite right, as the representative Foss says, that SV has said in his programme that they want to increase depreciation rates in industry. It's not the SV's program that this government follows to the bottom, it's the Soria Moria statement that underlies, and there's no need to increase the depreciation rates for the industry. I believe that in a given situation where business is getting worse, a number of new instruments need to be used for both industry and other business. In the case of labour market measures, in the case of tax measures, and in the case of tax measures. But right now the Norwegian industry is actually going very well. I know that the representative Foss earlier in Stortinget has addressed the challenge of labour shortages. That's the situation in Norway today, and it's important that we actually cool down the economy, as did former Minister of Finance Foss, when things go well in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1556	We face major challenges in the years to come related to an increasing number of older people. Among the main challenges in this context is the creation of quality care for the elderly with content and treatment provision and the provision of influence and control over one’s own life to people with disabilities, developmental disabilities or chronic diseases. It is not worth a welfare society that young people continue to be placed in hospital homes. In order to achieve this, an obligatory escalation plan with concrete appropriations is needed for the purpose. My question to SV is this: Will the Swedish Government be involved in ensuring that we have an obligating plan to meet the challenges of the future, where care services are of high quality and the needs of users are put into the high seat?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1562	There is no doubt that one of the major challenges we face is to be able to meet the needs of both caregivers and disabled people outside the municipalities. That is precisely why such a tremendous effort is being made to improve the local economy as this government has done. We have gone well over 10 billion kroner in increased investment in the municipal sector, and we have also been signaled that we want to continue to invest in the years ahead. For it is in the municipalities that the deciduous largest service production takes place for the groups that the representative Sahl is involved in, so with a strengthened community economy, it is possible to get good offers for both disabled people and caregivers for years to come. Obviously, the need is enormous, so reaching the top so that everyone can meet their demands and needs is very demanding. But one must constantly strive to get as close to the goal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1567	For a long time, the representative Ryan has tried to present himself as the district spokesperson first and foremost. It was with great interest that I noticed what he said, that this was the best government budget ever. It'll be a little pompous. It's almost so it becomes a little bit OL-like, but still – leave it down. That's my question to Mr. Ryan in this context is: With what is now being smuggled into the municipal economy — and that may be good in isolation — this leads to the municipality being wage-leading in many of the district municipalities. Is Ryan able to see that it is helping to create a greater centralization within the municipalities as well? Is there not some concern in the representative that this can contribute to creating a centralisation that may not be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1574	I cannot see that the municipalities are particularly pay-paying. At least I don't have any knowledge to claim it. What is important for us to avoid centralization is that we do a lot of concrete action. The differentiated employer's fee, which I pointed out in my post, is a very effective grip. We have received several research reports that have gone through what is working in Norwegian district policy. It has been pointed out that what we do in Nord-Troms and Finnmark is effective. What we have done through differentiated employer fees is effective, and what we have done through Innovation Norway is also partly effective – there are slightly more varied results there. In order to prevent centralisation, we need to continue to have some tools where we prioritise and focus on special things on the edges. I am concerned that we should not view it as a subsidisation. It is a national policy on how to maintain residence in Norway, because it is important for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1581	I heard with great interest the representative Ryan's boast of everything the government had done, and it certainly promises well in relation to many of the election promises that SV had. That's exactly what I want to hang myself in. There are a few of the election vows that I actually lack and don't see anything about. One was very clear. This is the case with the maximum price in kindergarten. Then we see that SV wholeheartedly supports a budget proposal where the maximum price is increased. You now have to take in millions of dollars from the families of children at an increased maximum price. The second was this meal in school, which very many parents had looked forward to. This was to be done now, as it was very high on the political agenda during the election campaign. Can the representative Ryan now give some guarantee when you might come back to this with school meals? When will this be implemented, and will this be one of the electoral promises that can be expected to be introduced by this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1588	I think SV has implemented a lot of the promises we made. Now this government has been sitting about. 13 months, and until the next election, we know it's almost three years. That means that we're doing very well in fulfilling many of the promises that SV had, and not least many of the promises in the Soria Moria statement. It is such that this government is based on the Soria Moria declaration. There, SV had a significant impact on its policy, which led us to enter this government. That's the one for the Government. So the SV will work on some of its issues that we didn't get along with at Soria Moria, both at national meetings and in various party programs. That's the way it's going to be for all of the parties. But for us, the Soria Moria statement applies, and there's nothing to say that you should have hot school food introduced during this big time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1595	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1598	I think a lot of this financial debate has been an attempt by the government parties to trace the debate away from the government budget that is actually being adopted. To the extent that we have talked about the content of the budget, there have been rafts and large words, and instead a lot of time has been spent in creating the impression that it is impossible for today's opposition parties to cooperate. What I experience is that there is an attempt here to cover their own cooperation problems. There was an ocean of difference between SV and the Workers' Party before Soria Moria. You can see that even though you've been sitting on Soria Moria and negotiating, there's still a sea of differences between the government parties in a number of areas. We see that debate every day. There is disagreement about defence policy, foreign policy, energy policy — to mention some essential areas for the nation of Norway. It's a fact. Using this financial debate to try to create the impression that it would be more difficult for today's opposition parties, or almost expecting that we would have come further than the red-green parties had done at the same time four years ago, I think it is simply foolish. I think you should spend time talking about the budget that is actually being adopted, because that's what's going to affect the nation of Norway next year – if you've given enough money to fight poverty, which was one of the big issues, especially to SV, before the elections. What has been done to reduce the poverty problems of all the country's minimum pensioners living below the poverty line? I don't think it's easy to live in one of the richest countries in the world, and then you can't do anything for 100,000 pensioners who live on a minimum of existence. Obviously, we could do something about it. It's just increasing the minimum pension. The Advance Party has proposed this, and I note that it is being voted down during the voting today. I think that's sad. If you wanted to do something about the health challenges, you would have cleaned up the debt to the hospitals. The possibility of hospitalisation for increased patient care had been improved. When almost all of our hospitals say that the only way to do this is to increase the input-driven funding, I think it is remarkable that the government is going counter-clockwise and reducing the input-driven funding, when you have proof that the higher the percentage, the more efficient the operation of the country's hospital is. That's what the government's going to do for itself. Then one has tried to create the impression that the budget option of the Progress Party is unrealistic, is on its own planet, on its own field. I want to return it, especially to SV, who now behaves like they have decades of experience as a state-supporting party. I think it is a bit entertaining to sit and listen to SV's speakers. When SV presented their alternative state budgets, they proposed, among other things: a cut in the defense of NOK 3 billion, and they thought they could admit that it was a very responsible budget. Then the parliamentary leader, Kristin Halvorsen, presented it. Now Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen says it's totally unrealistic to be able to do a cut of that size. This is at best a gigantic adult training project for the Party SV. Then, fiscal spokesman and head of the finance committee Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen attacked the Progress Party instead of telling about the government's budget – again a cover-up mechanism. There I want to take two of the challenges. The first Schjøtt-Pedersen was inside, was a statement from me that full kindergarten coverage would come anyway. That's what I understand. Two of the state councils that have been sitting in this Chamber all day, namely the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal, were the architects behind the kindergarten agreement with me and the Progress Party. If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't have had that progression in the development of kindergartens. It was because the SV and the Advance Party found each other in a matter where we were initially far apart, that the other parties came along and we got speed in both the expansion of and the pricing in kindergartens. I don't think Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will try to explain that. It was as a result of the fact that the Workers' Party came into the broad kindergarten agreement, and we are proud to have participated in it. This debate is marked by large floods, large words and an attempt to cover the budget after which the country will be managed in 2007. In the coming years, we are going to see to it that many of the wrong choices, the error priorities and the error budgets that this government is now making, which unfortunately will reduce the well-being of many areas where the government itself says that welfare should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1623	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1626	We are many who have noticed that the Progress Party does not seem to be particularly interested in questions being asked about their budget in the financial debate, but in a line change, it may well be allowed. I will save the President of the Progress Party to ask about economic policy, and challenge the representative Jensen on a completely different point, which, according to the reading of the draft budget of the Progress Party, stands out. Perhaps one of the biggest challenges the globe faces is climate change. We see them coming, we see them coming much faster than anyone had thought, and we are getting more and more evidence that it is related to greenhouse gas emissions. The party wants to get into government, and then it's interesting to know what the president of the Progress Party thinks about these questions. The budget shows that the appropriations for rail have been cut drastically. There must be the option of driving. It's even going to be cheaper. Then no clean-up of CO2 is to be carried out. It's gone in the budget of the Progress Party. The Ministry of the Environment's budget has been cut sharply. You're cleaning up every penny that's for both international and national environmental policies. What is the Progress Party's response to these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1638	First, I have to say that I think it is very gratifying that both the government parties and others pay a lot of attention to the policy of the Progress Party. That just means that it's being presented on a much wider scale than it would be if we just presented it, so I thank you for that help. Next to the climate question. There will be no better climate because we have a comprehensive bureaucracy in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It's quite surprising that Hill-Marta Solberg means it. But what could possibly have been a contribution was to renew the car park, which would have made several of us able to afford to drive around in environmentally friendly cars at a decent price, and that we had to throw away all the cars that pollute, and thus had to renew the car park. It's going to be a better environment. There will be no more environmentally friendly energy production in Norway because we spend billions of dollars on CO2 cleaning. Perhaps we would rather use our energy to literally develop new energy projects where Norway has abundant opportunities and opportunities to be in the world's leading position – to produce environmentally friendly energy, which we have all the prerequisites for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1649	In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party is committed to establishing an additional foreign budget of DKK 7 billion for actions that, according to the progress party theory, will not affect the Norwegian economy, because the money is then spent abroad. This then covers the Progress Party one and a half times by cutting the aid budget of the poor in other countries. If the intention was to spend more money without damaging the Norwegian economy, this is not entirely related. But then the Progress Party will also spend 23 billion kroner extra of the oil money to secure the future of our children, for more consumption in us today. The Progress Party strongly believes that spending more money in Norway will lead to better living conditions here, while, at the same time, spending much less money on the fight against poverty does not see any negative effects out there. The world's development experts agree, as we know, that the eradication of poverty in the world must be based on indebtedness, trade and increased aid from the rich countries. How does this relate? Is it the case that the Progress Party does not see any purpose in contributing to the eradication of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1656	Finally, in the Committee on Budgets' budget options too, we are, in fact, proposing an increase in the debt burden. We're for it because we mean it works. We are also for increased trade. We stand here in contrast to many other parties in this room who operate with an incredible double morality when they want to maintain trade barriers and trade barriers to the world's poorest countries, on which we ourselves are to enrich and believe that the only thing that helps is one-sided state to state aid, which likes to end up in the pockets of corrupt leaders, instead of coming out to those who really need it. Trade has proved to be an effective instrument in all contexts. Then we must also ensure that the poor countries have a part to play in it. I think that those who criticise the aid policy of the Progress Party should first go on their own and explain how 50 years of traditional aid policy in Africa have only made the continent poorer. A few people have been helped – that is quite correct – but poverty is brutal, and it is visible. Then those who go in the brink of traditional assistance must even begin to explain why they want to continue with a medicine that obviously doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1663	The Progress Party has stated on several occasions that it has a government objective. With the budget presented here by the Progress Party, where they raise it by NOK 23 billion, one hardly frees to the right. Then they also have a budget that reduces aid by $10 billion. That's when you don't propose to the Christian People's Party. Does this mean that the representative Jensen and the Progress Party have given up the hope of having a government on the right in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1670	I think it's touching, I, with this terrible concern that both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have shown in this debate, for whether or not the Right Party and the Progress Party succeed in achieving cooperation. The only reason these parties are so concerned about this is because they have to be the real fear of having a government option as a competitor. I can't understand this any other way. I actually think this is getting a little entertaining. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party had huge distances between themselves before they sat down on Soria Moria and negotiated, but that distance we see every day is not gone. There are difficult discussions within the same government parties against each other about both this and the hint. SV's staging representatives demonstrate in the lawn instead of sitting in the staging room. I think we have enough examples in the last year that although the three parties have a majority, cooperation is not so terribly successful in all ways. Government parties should perhaps take over instead of being so concerned with potential cooperation between other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1677	A red-green thread in this budget is more money for municipalities and thus increases municipal self-government. If local self-government is to have some meaning, local authorities and the elected representatives must have financial space to pursue policies and design their services in line with what people locally want and need. The centre party believes more local people's rule leads to more locally adapted well-being and thus to better well-being. A contradiction to this social view is a centralist policy which is that the Storting ear tags means and entrusted to thousands of bureaucrats to direct welfare policy. The local shade, the special need, comes quickly in the shadow. Where does the Progress Party actually stand on this question? Do they agree with us that municipalities should be the driving force in welfare policy, or should the state and the bureaucracy lead far by way regardless of local preferences and conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1686	Now I think Meltveit Kleppa really brought up an interesting perspective. She referred to thousands of bureaucrats. Maybe she'll go to her own government and try to launch a project on how we can use people's tax dollars more effectively so that they're used for service production rather than paper moving and bureaucracy. Obviously, that's possible. The progress party is for the local self-governing. The Progress Party is in order to enable municipal politicians to carry out the tasks assigned to them to govern as much as possible. This is one of the reasons why we have been critical of many of the interferences that the Ministry of the Environment is doing, as the County State is doing, where direct intervention in unanimous decisions taken by local local authorities should worry about Meltveit Kleppa much more. This matter has been raised many times by the Progress Party, but unfortunately we are not supported by the parties who say they are concerned with local self-government. And finally, we are very concerned that the main primary tasks the municipalities are set to do, namely, to take care of our older people and our children, should be given priority over everything else. That is why we earmark funds for care and school care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1698	The representative Siv Jensen and I could probably quickly agree that the sitting red-green government should be relieved on the first occasion. We can probably also agree that the probability of that happening is pretty big. We can see that, among other things. on how the Workers' Party brags to the centre parts of this hall. There's probably an attempt to invest beyond 2009. The big question is, what then? On this basis, I was very excited about the alternative budget of the Progress Party. Where are the invitations to see some change in what is the distance, to read in the budget position today – not that I believe the Progress Party will destroy itself and become like the other parties, but a strategist such as Siv Jensen certainly has a goal out there in terms of where the policy is going to take place. Can I have a reader's guide in the budget of the Progress Party? Where are I going to look for invitations in this budget, and where are the movements going towards such a possible goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1705	Firstly, I believe that any movement takes place through discussions and negotiations between the parties, not through an alternative state budget, which is proof of the party programme on which the party-group of the Advance Party has been elected. Our job no. 1 is to promote the proposals we have gone to elections. Anything else would be a mockery to all of our voters. They must be absolutely sure that we are doing all we can to ensure our policies. But let me turn this back to the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim. Where in the Left's budget is there an invitation to cooperate with the Progress Party? For the question is always asked one way! It is expected in a way that it is the Progress Party, and the Progress Party alone, which will approach the rest of political Norway. But the Progress Party has a significantly larger upswing than the Left Party. I think maybe our voters expect us to stick to our policies, but if Lars Sponheim believes that we should make cooperation visible through alternative budgets, I expect that it also applies to the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1712	I'd like to answer that, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1717	The cord shift is over. The representative of Sponheim will probably be able to answer later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1720	Last Friday was an exciting day for many television viewers. Throughout the fall, large parts of the people have been working around the TV 2 broadcasts on Friday evenings and feeding themselves with foxtrot, samba, quickstep and rickshaws in battle for the judges and viewers their favor. And so Friday the last excitement was triggered in the big dance final. In the Christian People's Party, we have called our budget option 'Another dance'. We're not afraid to be offered or to put others up to dance on the political parquet. However, unlike the TV2 program, the schedulers of the budget process cannot deactivate the program if they are not satisfied. Decisions in Stortinget have direct consequences for everyday life for most people. Therefore, the budget must have a budget of five on all, individuals as well as businesses, public services and voluntary teams and organisations, etc. The Christian People's Party has not been out to measure black or to maximize crisis. In several areas, we have actually given good grades to the Government's achievements. We are well pleased that the effort to help is progressing. Within realistic budgetary frameworks, there is also no need to put pressure on proposals relating to local economy and public infrastructure. But performance can be improved in several other areas. The commitment to care is disappointingly weak. The privileges of healthcare professionals are so tight that one for good reason has to fear that their treatment will be compromised. The escalation plan for mental health is only partially followed up. Many people who, due to different disabilities, need extensive services from the municipality feel that the municipality must give priority to the free resources for other purposes. The budget chapter on experimentation and research is probably more similar to a heavy hike in the moorland terrain than to a sweeping sports dance. Clearly, the government party has limited the trust that the companies themselves are able to control the research. And cutting or missing take-offs to universities, colleges and grant settings weakens the supply of education and research efforts in the higher education and university systems across the country. We do not doubt that the Minister of Knowledge and the Government Party have an involvement in the provision of nursery facilities. We take note of the fact that the three parties have changed the kindergarten policy in relation to what they meant in the opposition. And when it comes to prioritization between coverage and maximum price, we come with a careful congratulations for the exchange rate change, but I'd like to demand the same commitment to higher education and research. In the family and growth policy, there needs to be another dance! The Christian People's Party will give all parents a real opportunity to choose work in or outside the world while the children are small. Children need security and time with their parents. The Christian People's Party will therefore grant children the right to run. This is best done by measures that strengthen the family. In particular, we will strengthen our fathers' care responsibilities by increasing parental leave by one week, ear-marked to father. The fact that the government party is against more real choice is well known. But I'm surprised and disappointed that not increasing the dad leave is a priority of the Government either. Then I must end with a few words about it called the 'freedom package'. The Christian People's Party is content that the changes made by the government party in the budget are essentially about improving the conditions for voluntary teams and organisations. Painful cuts in the loops of public high schools and for community courses directed by volunteers and in response to private church buildings have been fixed. The capacity of drug institutions is better exploited by eight non-profit organisations and foundations. This gives hope to several drug users. The changes in the budget are one thing that says voluntary community action. But we're not in the goal of this field. The Christian People's Party still wants to stimulate even more voluntary efforts. The contribution should be increased and the voluntary work on children and young people at local level strengthened. We will strengthen the element of voluntary organisations in aid work both abroad and in domestic integration work. We believe in the value of living, voluntary effort. We therefore call on the Government to give priority to voluntary work even beyond the short period from the government budget until the financial institution is released. Care, growth and voluntary effort are the main content of the political dance that the Christian People's Party offers. And I can promise all the dance partners that if the dance contains these program posts, the Christian People's Party will not be the first to leave the park.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1744	Yeah, I guess that depends on the music. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1749	I don't intend to ask questions about the Christian People's Party's dancers, even if the representative Sørfönn talks a lot about it. In the financial setting, the Christian People's Party enters to use a similar amount of oil money as the Government does. We also see that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) is one of the former government parties that distinguishes itself when it comes to the use of taxes and taxes, by proposing to reduce the level of taxes and taxes by approx. 170 million. kr. In contrast to this, we find the proposal of the Progress Party on an extremely high use of oil money, which must result in strong pressure on interest rates and the price of the crown. I would therefore like to ask: is the representative of Mr Sørfonn that the Progress Party, with which he made many budgetary agreements in the previous period, conducts a responsible economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1756	I'd like to talk about the Christian People's Party budget, but on request, I would like to comment on other people's budget. I have respect for the different parties in Stortinget, with different policies and with different approaches to different issues. What I also record is that in the government in which my party was involved, it was possible to find common budgetary solutions with which we could stand up well, also in cooperation with the Progress Party. Christian People's Party is a center party. We've been, it's us, and we want to be. It's part of shaping our policies. We are looking for the best solutions, where we can get the most impact on the policy we believe in. That's what we've done, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1765	The Christian People's Party has criticised in the media and in this Chamber one of the proposals of the Progressive Party to resolve the extensive cross-border trade, namely our proposal to harmonise Norwegian alcohol charges with the taxes in countries bordering on our own. This tax on alcoholic goods contributes to the commercial leakage of alcohol, for example: Sweden worth well over DKK 10 billion. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is increasing this levy in its draft budget. Does not the Christian People's Party see that this trade is a major challenge for the industry that is operating along the border, and does the representative not believe that the sky-high alcohol charges contribute to trafficking in illegal and perhaps dangerous contraband, where the state has absolutely no control over either quality, turnover or tax revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1773	Border trade is a challenge, but it is also the problem of alcohol. In fact, all civilised countries have their own alcohol policy, and no country mixes industrial policy with alcohol policy. They make a complete policy of their own and stand on each of their own. It looks one in a good part of Europe. France and Germany have recently discussed raising alcohol taxes in order to mitigate the harm caused by alcohol abuse. Many EU countries are discussing measures to combat pro-mille driving. Finland is undoing the experiment that they did in reducing alcohol taxes. They see great consequences of it, which was confirmed here in the Chamber half a week ago by our Prime Minister. The Christian People's Party believes that there is such a close link between price, use and abuse that we stand upright with our proposal to increase the alcohol charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1778	I'm not a big dancer. That's why I have a big problem seeing the difference in the dance that the Government dances, and the dance that the Christian People's Party presents to us. So it's 0.3 pst. differing from the draft budget of the Christian People's Party and the proposal of the Government. It's a microscopic difference. On the other hand, there is a very great difference between the draft budget for the Christian People's Party versus the Right, and not least in the Christian People's Party versus the Advancement Party. My question to the representative Sørfonn is therefore: is it more convenient with the draft budget presented by the Government, is it more confidential and agreeable to it than with the draft budget presented by the previous government party on the Right, and is it now presented by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1787	I have to admit that knowledge and experience with dance are not my strongest side either. When it comes to economic policy and cooperation, we have, as I said in a previous reply, our policy. We are looking for solutions where we get the most impact on our policies. In the government we were in in the previous period, it turned out that it was possible to find good compromise solutions where we could stand up well. Unlike what we see now, the discussions were conducted internally in the government quarter, and we stood together about what we were told about through good processes. Now we're in another situation, now we're in opposition, and we, in line with the other opposition party, promote and show our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1796	The Christian People's Party has an involvement in the voluntary sector. We also have that in the Center Party. And the government party has strengthened the voluntary sector in several areas, not least the strengthened community economy has been important for voluntary cultural life. We know that the Christian People's Party has good intentions for the voluntary sector, but we experienced in the previous period that the Christian People's Party was also taking part in the pledges of important areas of volunteering, such as the study federation and the important free fund arrangement. So the question to the representative Sørfonn, in order to use his own rhetoric, is: Can the Christian People's Party promise another dance – and increase support to the Children's and Young People's Free Fund scheme and support to the study federations in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1803	We regard the whole voluntary sector as important, with all its different elements and disfigurements – if I can use such an expression – and we want the lack. Perhaps this difference is greater when it concerns the previous government and this, that we wanted – and we want – to cultivate a lack of control over, in the form of stronger state subsidies, part of the development of the voluntary sector. In all areas, we will ensure that the voluntary sector will also have good living conditions in the time to come, no matter what sector it is concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1808	The Christian People's Party has a strong voice in the solidarity of the poor both domestically and abroad. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party supports the Government's increase in the aid budget. But as important as annual increase is how we spend this money, which I believe the representative of Sørfönn also agrees with. Here we have to be better and more effective. But not all parties agree with us that we have such a high level of aid budget as we see in next year's budget. That the Progress Party has a different view of aid, we are well aware of it, but how does the Christian People's Party feel that the former close partner Right Cuts DKK 1.4 billion in the aid budget? What does the Christian People's Party think about the new way aid policy is designed in the Right's budget proposal, in the form of cuts of DKK 1.4 billion, but with SEK 200 million more in reduced customs duties?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1815	Assistance is very important. We view it as a purely symbolic act for a rich country, but it's much more than that, and it's the realities that mean the most to us. Therefore, we have fought for and will fight for Norwegian aid to be on the world summit. We can afford that, and we owe it to the poorest of the poor. Then I'm invited again to comment on other people's budget. I don't like commenting on other people's budget. I like to talk more about the Christian People's Party's budget. But I'm glad that in a government cooperation with the Right, we didn't have a problem getting through to our budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1826	The 2007 government budget is the first to be reformed to the budget of a multi-annual government of more than 20 years. I would like to point out three important differences from the ‘ordinary’ minority government budget: 1st@item: inlistbox No'secret' negotiations with one or more opposition parties, made less noise, and no images of people entering and entering many doors in the Stortinget.2. Government and government are listening. There has been more time and space to record from parties, organizations and others. The edges of the Storting have been taken seriously. The Christian People's Party has come with concrete recordings. They've also been heard. An already good volunteer profile has become even clearer.3. The size groups of the government party have been heavily involved throughout the process. All in all, a broadly anchored budget. The State budget is a central instrument for fulfilling the aspirations, and in particular to follow up the Soria Moria declaration. A plural government has a greater chance than a minority government to fulfill promises. A minority government must in practice, i.e. over time, often working with different batches. It requires different forms of penetration. This may conflict with fulfilling the promise. Top view: It may be more important to establish a budget than what the budget contains. The agreement between the Labour Party and Bondevik II was not a fiscal budget, despite the fact that lower taxes were passed on to Bondevik II in terms of budgetary policy. The budget has changed the political conversation. Political responsibility for the budget and fiscal policy has been clarified and clarified more clearly than before. This also makes the discussion about the budget clearer. Criticism and proposals for changes can be addressed to those responsible. Both monetary and financial policies affect the Norwegian economy and should contribute to a stable development. The main challenge for fiscal policy is to manage the use of so-called oil money. The greater the foreign share of the pension fund, the more oil money is the rule of action that we can use. Now we're in a boom that should be careful with the use of public funds as well. With this budget, the government's party shows the will and ability to bear such responsibility, at the same time as we deliver and deliver large-scale vows. Of course, an important explanation is the conscious and explicit emphasis on Community solutions rather than on new and large tax havens. More right-wing policies today – tax havens – must have cut public spending, consumption and investment. This would have led to a different social development than what we and people most want. The central party went to the elections for a new government because we meant the resources and possibilities we have in this country should be managed in a more wise and forward-looking way. The government has now laid a good foundation for economic policy: a better and more forward-looking distribution between groups and districts, a new and forward-looking business policy with a stronger transport base and a clear strengthening of local welfare. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party promised NOK 1 billion more than Bondevik II per. year-on-year, and the same to course. We're getting up. The Labour Party, SV and the Centerpartiet promise a commitment to care, school and health in the municipalities. Historical strengthening of the local economy is in place. Most people in every municipality in this country now know this. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party promise an own cultural lift. It's followed up heads for heads. You'll get how much joy and inspiration these means give! The centre party is very satisfied with the poverty action plan, with an increase in the aid budget and much more. We have higher targets! We also have major challenges! A thorough and forward-looking work must be completed when it is related to industry and the environment. Mongstad and Kårstø are important key chords. We are pleased that we have come this far there, and also that the necessary dialogue is in place to follow up the NOx protocol. A thought - provoking increase in sick leave means that we need to intensify efforts for more preventive work at school, at work and at home. We are on track – we have three more budgets!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1868	I record that the Central Party, as one of the three government parties, is also very pleased with the budget – something else would surprise us in this room. But what I also notice is that the Center Party often wants to give the impression that you are the most district friendly party. I still hear the Center Party is talking about the importance of people living in District Norway. My starting point then is that it must be that it is viable for people to live in District Norway, for example. in relation to this with lower fuel costs, lower car maintenance costs, etc., where we may not have the alternatives we live in the Central East. Why isn't the Central Party more concerned with demanding that the costs be reduced for those who live in District Norway – bringing down the costs for business in District Norway so that you can transport your goods far more reasonably than you can do today, with the sky-high charges that are currently on the car?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1873	It is quite right that the Center Party is very busy with a good and forward-looking district policy. At the moment, the municipal committee is putting the last hand on the work with the setting in connection with a separate monitoring report on regional and regional policy. So far, I haven't set any commitment from the Progress Party at all to set up the many measures that have been proposed to really make it possible for more people to choose to bow in the districts. So it's also right that transportation is important. In fact, the most important thing there is to ensure a better name and a better appearance. It means something to most people, and it actually means a lot to business. In this budget, we also see additional regional policy measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1880	The Central Party's fiscal spokesman tends to settle in the summer with pointless, or quite meaningful, outbursts that arouse political Norway from its hibernation. This summer he was attacked by owner-occupiers, especially residents of the cities. What is more eye-catching is that the Central Party's fiscal spokesman brings this debate into the Storting, and today, from the European Parliament's pulpit, we are calling for the start of taxing people's interest expenditure. It calls on the attention of the parliamentary leader of the Central Party – at least it should. I would like the Central Party parliamentary leader to clarify: is it the policy of the Central Party and the Government that people should start paying taxes on their interest expenses? It is a bad message to young people in the start-up phase, especially those who live in cities, with large loans and with great concern that we now have a red-green government that pushes up interest rates [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1885	The President must ask that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1888	I don't think anyone who ten years ago followed Per Olaf Lundtägen's commitment to a fairer taxing of housing, would call it an attack on the bus owners. On the contrary, the Centre Party has been constantly concerned that the individual, even one who does not have much to travel with, should be able to enter the housing market as well as to keep his dwelling. When it comes to government policy, it is quite clear in the 2007 budget – it's just reading there. In fact, when it comes to the level of interest rates, the interest now recorded by the Government is entirely in line with what Per-Kristian Foss predicted as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1897	We from the opposition have previously pointed out that in terms of research, the ambitions of the red-green government may not be very high. But in one area we see something different. In the draft budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the following is stated under the research chapter: ‘The government wants increased investment in stem cell research. At the same time, it is desirable to open up research on stem cells from surplus fertilised eggs and a proposal for a modification of the Biotechnology Act to this effect has been at a consultation.» Such research on stem cells from fertilised eggs that are now to be prioritised means that germinal life is treated as a means of research – and not as an end in itself. We are surprised to read this in the draft budget. I would therefore like to ask Meltveit Kleppa: does the Central Party agree with the very important leadership in this area provided by the Government in the Ministry of Health and Welfare's budget proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1911	No one should be in doubt that this government wants to strengthen its research. It is not correct, as it has been produced today, that it is cut in the permissions of research. On the contrary, there are solid additions. So the representative Syversen lists a field that is demanding both for health professionals, for researchers and for people of different parties, namely the possibilities that new technology offers, and the ethical boundaries that have to be set here. About stem cell research, research on adult stem cells, mein Regeringa – and has warned in the Soria Moria statement – that Norway should be in the forefront. It is, however, not disputed. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we also have alerted research under certain conditions on overly fertilized eggs. In the light of the hearings, the government party is now in a dialogue on further legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1918	In its first budget, the Government increased the housing tax by raising the equation values of housing by 25 pst. If a believe center party, there was one thing that the party had lost in the government. As late as in the debate on the revised national budget, the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtigen said: ‘It is not the policy of the Centre Party to tax the dwellings of ordinary people. It is a central asset, and it has been encouraged throughout the post-war period in Norway to own their own home. There has been a good that should be taken care of, and I can assure you that it will also be in the future." This insurance lasted for three and a half months. Now there's another budget where you've increased the housing tax. Does the parliamentary leader of the Central Party understand that the voters no longer trust the Central Party in this area? Can she clarify whether it is the central party's policy to increase the tax on housing for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1929	I think people see in the 2007 budget that the Centre Party is to be trusted when it comes to the three areas in which we went to elections: a strengthened community economy, a strengthened transport policy and more to culture and the voluntary – as well as many other areas. In the case of housing taxes, it is still the Central Party's principle that the standard housing should not be taxed – and not the Left will, at all costs, to remove everything and contribute to a tax relief of perhaps $12 billion in two years. But we have to see this in the context of the tax regime or else. We're going into the budget as it is now. I think Kvassheim has understood that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1938	I must almost ask Meltveit Kleppa to answer the questions she is being asked. The question from Kvassheim was about housing tax. In fact, there are pensioners with a very common pension and with a paid-up house or apartment who get a higher house tax with a government in which the Centrette sits. In the current year, the housing tax has increased by 25 pst. Next year it's going to increase by 10 pst. I asked Meltveit Kleppa a specific question that I ask for an answer once again: Does Per Olaf Lundtägen speak on behalf of the Center Party and the Government when he decides to remove the interest deduction for loans? There are many families who feel insecure when one of the main political figures in the government parties is running around in the summer debate – and now, in the big debate – and is calling for the removal of the interest rebate. This will mean a real tax return for many young people in the start-up phase. I must ask the parliamentary leader of the Central Party to clarify what is the central party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1947	I personally thought that Per Olaf Lundteg raised an interesting issue that might also be right-wing thinking through. So it's a subtraction of their interest expense, regardless of how large they are. There are more detailed discussions within the Centre Party – and should also be with others – before one wants to take a step further. But the party that wants a fair distribution, that wants to bet more on the community, that wants more tax relief for those who have the least in this society, including more tax relief for the minimum pension list, I'll advise to think more about this – also right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1952	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1955	Politics is about choosing. Just over a year ago, the choice was between two clear government options: between more tax relief or stronger efforts on joint schemes. Selectors have selected communities over treasure layers. The government budget for the next year clearly shows that the price has now changed. The government party will create values throughout the country and strengthen the community. We're also working on a fair distribution target. These are fundamental elements of our policy. Our promise in the election campaign was that the tax pressure should be brought back to the level in 2004. This promise will be fulfilled next year. In practice, this gives us $12 billion more to do well-being than the Bondevik government would have. A clear consequence of this policy is that 3.2 billion more are being allocated to kindergartens in 2007. This will allow you to achieve the goal of full child care coverage next year. There will be 2 billion more to road and rail in 2007. We're talking here about the biggest promise in the road sector in 15 years, and the biggest promise for 25 years' iron track. Municipalities will receive SEK 3.65 billion more in free income next year. The real growth in total income for the municipal sector is NOK 6.6 billion. Such a strong growth in income makes it possible to take an important step towards the target of 10,000 more annual work in the care of the elderly. All these bets are possible because the government is betting on the community and rejecting tax relief for those who already have enough. The claim that there is little distance between the political parties, we hear from time to time. That is not correct. The tax policy fully indicates that there is a clear difference between the right and the left. We want to spend $12 billion more on welfare rather than the Bondevik government added for 2006. Over four years, this gives us almost $45 billion more. It is obvious that this leads to a clear change in course. These are the joint arrangements that are now being implemented. Folks around the municipalities have understood this. They have certainly learned that there are new times for the well-being of the municipalities. Starvation has been released by an offensive effort. There are three areas in which the municipalities are particularly keen on the change in pace and course: the use of kindergartens, the strengthening of the common ground and the promotion of care for the elderly. Many governments have talked about getting full child care coverage. Now it's being set up so that it can happen next year. More than 19 000 new kindergartens will be provided in 2007. In order to achieve this, strong political will is required at national and high level of action and willingness to implement locally. Some of the first government took hold after she came to power was to remove the plans for a large-scale privatisation of the school. It was especially Right and the Progress Party that had such planes. Now it's the common ball that's going to be strengthened. The quality of training should be improved and a start should be made on introducing free learning material in further training. This has been an important requirement of students for many years. Now it is finally implemented. Parental care is a core task for municipalities. In the previous period, this task had to give way to tax laws, which were the course of the Progress Party and the daring government parties. Now it'll be a much easier everyday life for the locals. They get far more money than before to provide the necessary care for the elderly and the sick. It is imperative in a welfare society. For the Workers' Party, it is decisive to have a fair tax system. We want to use the system for redistribution. Those who care little are going to pay less tax than those who think a lot. This is reflected in the tax profile added by the Government. Persons with gross income less than DKK 400000 receive tax credits or unchanged tax credits. Those who have income above this level receive tax increases. The tax increase for taxable persons with income in excess of 1 million is the largest. kr. The tax profile will be strengthened. It gives a better distribution next year. The tightening of top taxes and taxes on wealth means that people with high income and high wealth have to give more to the community. On the other hand, increased interest rates at least will facilitate lower-income individuals, leading to further better distribution. The Progress Party has a completely different tax profile. They give tax relief to all income groups. But there are tax payers with the highest incomes that get the most deciduous. Persons with a gross income of more than 1 million kr, will be the winners with their composition of the Progress Party. The government party, on the other hand, will clearly increase the tax on this group. The distribution profile is very different. The Progress Party will give the richest of the largest counting. That's not how we call a policy for most people. There is an absolute difference between life and learning in the Progress Party. On the right, there is a profile in its tax structure that significantly premises the top income groups. There are persons with gross income over 1 million. kr which are the winners of the Right's tax policy. However, there is a difference in levels between the tax base of the Progress Party and the tax base of the Right. It's good times in our country. The number of persons employed has increased sharply in the last year. Fewer people than before are fortunately out of work. Large parts of the business are making good money. All of this is extremely positive. It is therefore important that an economic policy be pursued and that positive developments be pursued. We need a policy that secures jobs and provides the basis for creating new ones. It is irresponsible to pursue a policy that overlooks jobs. We need a viable economic policy. The Government Party is strongly committed to such a course – which will provide a balance in the Norwegian economy. When we consider all the proposals and record them, the point is that the use of oil money should be increased by approx. 36.5 billion dollars next year compared to the government's plan. Such a policy will undoubtedly provide a powerful expansive impetus to the activity of the Norwegian economy. This will significantly increase the pressure on interest rates. The damage will be great. These are the most professional economists in the world. In the political environment, the Progress Party is very closely involved in the defence of such a course. The central bank manager was very clear in his assessment of the cases when he participated in a hearing in the financial committee. He stated that using NOK 20 to 30 billion more than what follows from the rule of action would have an ‘immediate effect in terms of a higher interest rate and a stronger dollar rate, a higher Norwegian cost level’. I would like to remind you that the reasoning was then a much less use of oil money than the Progress Party now proposes for 2007. Consequently, the adverse effects will be even greater than the governor. A responsible economic policy is alpha and omega for our country. It's an inevitable condition for us to be able to get work for people. Very vulnerable is the export-rights business. Many place great emphasis on the Progress Party's additions for different purposes in society. But it's irresponsible to look at the additions in isolation. It is absolutely crucial to take into account what kind of impact the various proposals have on economic policy in the broadest sense. It would be very unfortunate if populist proposals on all kinds of additions in different budget lines were to remove the basis for a balanced economic policy. In that fight there is a fundamental distinction between the Progress Party on one side and the Government Party on the other. The government has submitted an offensive budget. It will provide more community in the Norwegian community. And it also ensures the balance of our economy. The differences are particularly large in relation to the Progress Party's alternative draft budget. We have thus been made clear the differences in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e1998	I thought the representative Sandal got the lines of division clearly, at least between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, in his rhetoric on the pulpit when this is the case with taxation. Our starting point is that when you reduce taxes, you don't give money to taxpayers, and you let taxpayers keep more of their own income. That's our view of it, and I understood very clearly that it's not the Labour Party's view. It's not that when you increase the tax by $12 billion, there's $12 billion left to go with. It is also a Danish report that has clearly stated that when an increase in taxes occurs, it may also mean a reduction in tax revenue for the country. My question is: does the representative Sandal think that there is no connection between the framework conditions in the form of taxes and the creation of value in a society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2009	I think it's obvious that a commitment to having a good distribution policy is that there's a huge value creation in our society. Therefore, in its draft budget, the Government has put a heavy emphasis on both large and extensive value creation in all parts of our country and on a welfare policy aimed at creating a fair distribution of the values that are being created. Then it's the government party's policy that it's not the tax havens we live on. It's not just a more principled hold we have, but it's also a real political hold. We know that it's getting smaller in the public register, whether it's in the municipalities, in the county councils or in the state, it's going to be less money to distribute to important welfare tasks, especially in the areas of fire care and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2016	The Central Party's fiscal spokesman today has clarified what he means by his system change in the tax system. It is to remove the tax credit for interest expenditure on housing. After being pressured on this, his parliamentary leader recently said in an answer that this is an interesting issue that many people should think about, that it has to do with fair distribution, and that they are working on this – both in the Central Party and in the Government. My question is quite simple: is this initiative supported by the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman and by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2024	The fleet says he asks a simple question. He's also going to get a simple answer. The government has submitted a tax and tax plan to suggest that there should be an exemption from the interest you have before a calculated tax. That's the arrangement for the Workers' Party. It's the Labour Party's policy now, and we'll work on that for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2031	The last was a reassuring answer. We're going to remember that and take it with us. I also choose to believe that, because that is the only right and sensible thing for the many people who are struggling to pay their mortgages, not least in the cities. My question to the representative Sandal is that the representative Sandal, as a capable financial politician for the Workers' Party today, also has a past as Minister of Education. I know that he has had a strong commitment to the entire education sector, not least to the university and higher education sectors, from which he himself has a proud tradition. I have used this budget harvest to think a little about the Sandal representative when the budget was presented and the only sector that was cut was universities and colleges. I have thought that Sandal has led a hard fight here, but unfortunately did not succeed. Nor did Sandal succeed in his fight for universities and high suns in the work of the Financial Committee, nor when the supplementary proposal was presented. Can the representative Sandal give us a prognosis as to whether he will succeed in the next round when he thinks about the universities and colleges, which I know he's busy with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2041	I would first like to say thank you for the concern expressed by the representative Sponheim. I acknowledge that I have a strong commitment to the knowledge policy, and that we should have a training and a knowledge policy that is offensive in the broadest sense. In the draft budget presented by the Government, a choice has been made to invest particularly heavily in the kindergarten sector and in funding for basic and continuing training. I'm not saying that the proposal that's on the government's table is ideal when it's about the university and higher education sector. I want to be ready for that, but I don't think there will be any permanent condition that it should be like this. I can promise the representative Sponheim that I still want to have a heavy commitment to the university and higher education sector in the country to have enough money to run a defensive business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2050	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2053	There are some policy areas that are more demanding than others. They are demanding in that way that one does not see what one has sown, until a certain time has passed. In the society I grew up, where I was born, we actually learned the simple sentence that a good farmer takes care of the seed to think ahead. Today's seed is, of course, in addition to what we're going to make out of the field's crops, the seed we provide through knowledge, research and research-based efforts to promote two fundamental value chains in society. One value chain is the one that makes us all keep up a great and strong Norwegian tradition that makes us in a demanding world get so much ballast and so much knowledge that we are still upright as citizens of our democracy. We just don't have the hat in our hands when we meet an expert. We get the expert to talk to us normally, and where we ourselves are experts, we are humble and think that we have something new to learn. It's the one value chain. The second is the value chain we can call the unborn business, what makes people create jobs out of what they think and research. I met such an example the other day, together with the representative from the Labour Party of Oslo, Oslo Cancer Cluster, who is simply a chain of small and medium-sized enterprises that create businesses based on instruments that are important for cancer control, and that come out of research, basic advanced research in this country and in this city. When I start by describing it this way, it's to say that as politicians, we have a special responsibility to promise what is not immediately popular. I think a lot of people will agree. It's enough that people don't just take the wave in the fight for the research funds. Those of us, and I'm one of them, who has a seven-year-old elementary school behind us, got so strong that we were so proud of what we could and humiliated about what we could learn, and later we were curious. We have experienced a Norway where the seven-year-old primary school was nine years old and the nine-year-old was twelve years old, and today we actually have a situation where more than half of the youth schools have higher education in practice as primary education. This is a Norway where both social democrats, left-wing people and Ernst G. Mortensen could say: Knowledge is power. They knew it meant something. This is heavily anchored in Stortinget. The Storting has had a research report that it really shines off. In its time, a late gentleman, Jon Lilletun, was involved in raising this in a way that won cross-political respect. We know that there are Norwegian researchers who have given us the mobile phone. But we had so much oil money on our brain that it became an industrial product in Finland. It was Norwegian researchers who gave us Simula, an excellent center at Fornebu today, but Simula had broken through in the middle of the '60s when it came to making computer technology useful for communication. In a number of areas, we find that Norwegian researchers have done well. There has never been any contradiction in Norway between the fact that most people would do well, and that someone would do it very well. So why this introduction? Well, because I'm going to talk about the government's treatment of higher education and research. I'm actually going to start by saying something that I don't like to say, because when I take it up, I meet three lines from the Government: first the most sympathetic, represented by the Sandal representative here instead: the honest and sincere, who says, "We're going to come back and fight more." All right. So we have Djupedal's line, which I'll call the de minimis line: what one sees, is not what one sees, and if one thinks one sees something other than that one sees, takes a mistake. Then we have the State Council Halvorsen line, which I call the designation line: the representative Dørum and everyone else is wrong, because we've been betting on the kindergartens. I am to bet on kindergartens. But there's probably no one in this room who thinks that betting on kindergartens is going to replace investing in a minimum of what is needed in research, what makes us have people who can do the job, fellows, what we call post.docs, that they have scientific equipment, and that we have a funding that makes people feel good. I venture this claim in this room: Once in my youth, I knew that the father of Einar Gerhardsen was his time proletariat when he led the roadwork team in Oslo that kept the streets clean. I wasn't in doubt about that, but I'm going to venture to say that today's proletarians are against state fellows at Norwegian universities, who are not enthusiastically paid, but who are making a huge social effort, because they believe in and are curious about what they're doing. These people should honor society in such a way that it gives them framework conditions that make it not almost a lottery game to send applications, so that they do not spend most of the time writing applications and perhaps getting worse than a lottollionaire from Verdal. These framework conditions are politics, and then we are sitting with a government that cannot be influenced by a list that I would like to reread, because I did so for the knowledge minister just a week ago: Abelia, ICT-Norway, Norwegian Industry, NHO – I am not going to sing, Mr. President! – Association of Researchers, Academics, University and Higher Education Council, Tekna, Norwegian Research Council. They find hardly a single point of light in research and higher education. They speak lowly, quiet and precise Norwegian. They don't go on trains, but they talk very accurately. So they're in agreement. And then we get to the next one: SV was the party that went in the brow for this. It was one of their proud moments, which seem to falsify incredibly quickly. For example, the representative, Reikvam, said: in its time on a proposal from the Bondevik II Government to cut 20 million. kr on higher education that it was almost like approaching doomsday. I'm not going to try to explain the relationship between doomsday based on 20 million. Cut and cut of 274 million. kr. Then I think we'll end up far into John's revelation, if we first move out into this. I'm not going to take the staging hall on theological hikes today. Based on the Swedish Research Foundation’s programme, on 1 January 2008, the Swedish Research Fund would have DKK 100 billion. Yes, the Left is promoting a proposal so that it can be. So what do the government parties do? What happens then is that the government parties, who, in addition to this, know that they have to invest in business, first take the TaxFUNN system, which we have been portrayed as an unbureaucratic, all right system, and tightens up. In a part of the country, the Oslo region, where we do not have Innovation Norway in the same way as in other parts of the country, the TaxFUNN system carries a lot of the activity of creating something in business. One narrows it down with a bureaucratic enthusiasm, almost like walking into a little Kafka novel, and seems to have some joy in introducing people new forms and difficulties, so that people don't get what they believe in. And then, at the top of it all, the same government, which really doesn't believe that private people or business will provide anything, through the revised national budget earlier this year, can tighten up what's called the gift enhancement scheme. It means that if the rich give anything to research, it's not the ones who decide what the money is going to do, because that's what the research decides, and then the state adds 25 pst. on top. When Trond Mohn gives a quarter of a billion dollars to the University of Bergen, there's panic in the government. They lack money, so it's transferred from the Research Council. If you had been dubious that business would deliver, you should at least stick to the simple and supported the arrangements that are predictable – TaxFUNN – and be cordially happy for those who think it’s better to give money to the University of Bergen than to buy a huge cabin, a super-large boat, a plane or what it should be. But then you get to what's the worst of all. You break something as basic as a Norwegian contract with the citizens: if you give something, we give something, but you break it. So that's the way to think about this government's sequence when it comes to research. And then what I'm about to say is a state council's solemn hour. I say it that way, because I have some experience. In the middle of the discussion of a budget, there is not a miracle from above, but a miracle comes in the form of new tax returns. All of a sudden, you get $4 billion. And after you've only had NOK 12 billion and have managed to cut in universities and colleges with approx. NOK 280 million, and has avoided following up the research effort except for inheritance from the Bondevik II government, you can get another NOK 4 billion and have covered for the sick pay. Then you can still get some money back, but you can't spend one penny on this. And so when you take it up from the opposition side here in the Storting, we either meet the straight line, Sandal, the de-counter line, the Djupedal, or the denial line. As social workers, I would say that when man begins to defame and deny something that is serious, we are approaching a crisis. But I'm not going to draw the reasoning anymore, because that just means that it has to be a very tender toe when you can't even pick the Sandal line, because the Sandal line I bend for. It's honest and honest. I say I lost the fight today, but I'll come back and fight. So the government's state councils should get inspired by Sandal, say they got Christmas on some laps, and then they get to fight later. At least the left shall do it. I had decided to keep the post this way, because there must be a little life both in the debate and in the struggle for research. We'll try to take a wave for something that will depend on next generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2092	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2095	Let me start by saying I'm not going to devalue, because it's crazy expensive to clean up after Bondevik's and Doorum's projects in government. A good farmer took care of his seed, said Dørum in his post. In the future, it is probably the Progress Party that is a seed, if the Left again wants to enter the government offices. Maybe the Left isn't so happy about it. But I'm glad that Dørum is talking about research and industrial policy, even though I don't see the Left as a business-political party. Research is important, and therefore this government is adding to the research in the budget we are now dealing with. It is an important factor in the future development of society. But Dørum should do some research on his own budget too, because he is therefore missing 12 billion kroner before he has to settle his budget. He is making up his budget today without a host.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2104	Personally, I am very happy that there is an inheritance after Bondevik II, and that is the legacy that is called dynamic tax policy, and that got so fast on the Norwegian economy, among other things. through a disciplined fiscal policy, which is one of the key factors in keeping interest rates down so as to absorb tax revenue both in 2006 and 2007, from which the Government has great joy. I'd like any government to have that joy. My point was that when you have the joy of the 12 billion and with the 4 billion, you don't bet at all. Then the representative Klungland and I have something in common. We believe in business – well. The Government has a TaxFUNN scheme that is described as unbureaucratic. As the son of a founder who went headlong against the wall in the 1950s, Norway, when the social democrats loved directors and not entrepreneurs, I would say that when entrepreneurs feel that they can bet on something, we should take care of it. But then the Ministry of Finance – with the government's pen, because it's the Council of State that's responsible – and is stroking the system. I don't think it's anything to be proud of. But I am proud that I was part of a government that gave such seeds that made you get the money to play ball with. But it's little to be proud that you don't now spend one extra penny on higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2111	I have to admit that I am tired of this talk of dynamic tax policy from the Bondevik government. In the year we've been running, we've increased the taxes by $6 billion. Over the course of this year, we've got bigger, unexpected tax revenues for the local government sector and the state fund than ever before. Whether this is due to the dynamic tax policy or not is at least due to the fact that we have increased taxes and thus received so much extra tax. One point that I would like to take up with Odd Einar Dørum is that doorroom and we got together in the last period, that is, that we had to make a huge uplift to make babysitting places for everyone and to get prices down. So the one group that the Left thinks it's right to pay a lot more in the next year is the young people who have children in kindergartens. They're going to have an increase in their cost of 1440 kroner. Is this especially social?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2118	That's very honest, what we're doing. In contrast to SV, we understand that we are going to have full babysitting. If we had run according to SV's maximum price, we would never have done that, and the government has actually understood that too. It was to have NOK 1750 at the maximum price at the end of the year 2007-2008. The government has made the recognition that there is supply and demand. So we've added $200. We've actually recognised that we've done that, and it gives us money that enables us to bet on some of the things that the Swedish government has pushed in – such as investing in universities, colleges and research. Politics, of course, is about choosing, and then we are (a) for children and children's playgroundsb) to invest in research – which means that children have something to live from when we've spent all the oil money That must be a great child's perspective. I understand that the representative Holmås is tired of hearing about dynamic tax policy, for his government is at full speed to undermine it by running an interest rate experiment, which the representative Sponheim has mentioned in a formed and careful manner here earlier today. But this is a new variant, this is the explanation variant – I'm not talking about research, I'm talking about kindergartens instead – the fourth variant in explaining a bad research budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2134	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2137	The main difference between this and the previous government is that we put the money where the mouth is, as they say ‘in English’. While the previous government was talking about railway operations, about local economy, about school, about aid and about culture, we are delivering the results. I want to remind the previous speaker that when we changed last, the Bondevik government halved the research growth from NOK 1.3 billion to around SEK 600-700 million. kr. That was the result of the government change when Odd Einar Dørum entered the government. I think that the debate here lacks a little focus on the facts. What are the 12 billion that the Minister of Finance spoke about — which would have been missing from the State budget if we had not turned the tax policy around — that would have gone beyond that? We don't get any answers to that. The level of taxation that was quite terrible in the 2005 election campaign is today perfect for the Christian People's Party and the Left, a little too high for the Right and perhaps even a little higher for the Advance Party. One of the things that this budget gives room to is the greatest interest in culture in history. While the Bondevik government before it went off, a growth of 100 million was proposed. kr, we are now proposing, in the 2007 budget, a growth of almost half a billion kroner. In addition, the municipal economy – 12.5 billion more in 2007 compared with 2005 – provides for perhaps about half of this. 400 million. kr more to culture, because you use approx. 3.5 pst. on culture. So that's going to be $1 billion for culture. When was the budget for culture ever mentioned in billions of terms? You just put an extra zero behind everything you do in the field of culture after you got a government change. Some say that volunteering is forgotten, and the Christian People's Party, in good cooperation with the government parties, has received more money for various volunteering purposes. All right! But I don't recognize this image from my sector – on the contrary. What was waiting for me in the department I entered was a cut of 15 million. kr at Frifond – proposed by a Christian People's Party Council, as the end of a wide range of cuts on Freefonds. We fixed that up, and in the 2007 state budget, we're adding another 15 million. kr at Frifond. There's a commitment to volunteering, and there's not just a difference of level, there's a difference of direction. There is a dramatic difference in developing the framework conditions for all those who volunteer around Norway — whether it is cultural life, whether it is social work, whether it is aid work or what it is now. We need a good economy in Norway, and it's going exceptionally well. Solid increase in the municipal budget provides better health care, more care and schooling, and it is quite wrong what the Progress Party keeps saying, that funds must be earmarked to make money from it. In 2006, SEK 6.5 billion is spent more in the municipalities of school, care for the elderly and health. That is the result of the policy we are pursuing. There'll be money for it in the local environment as well. However, we need not only an increasing level of wealth – that we reduce unemployment, that record numbers of new businesses that have come under this government are not only fictitious enterprises to circumvent tax rules, but real enterprises that are driving innovation – we also need something to live for. Cultural experiences, cultural activities, commitment and community become even more important to us as many get the material needs covered – art and culture, creativity, well-being, togetherness, the common arena in a society where many want more sharing. It is about the autonomous, independent art and cultural life that pushes society further, opens new doors and creates new creativity, but it is also about many other essential social conditions: good growth conditions, good ageing, good fellowship for the people of Norway. Many of the small and large amounts of the cultural budget can be translated into higher quality of life, better quality of life and good social conditions. Sometimes I meet people who are what we can call poor, in Norway. What do they say? Do they say they lack food? No, there is virtually no food shortage in Norway. Are they saying that they lack a roof over their heads? Well, they often have poor living conditions, but they have roof over their heads. What they often experience as poverty is that their children cannot participate in the leisure activities, sports activities or cultural activities that the other children can. They themselves say that they haven't been able to afford to go to cinema in many years. They don't have the extra money that allows them to participate in society like everyone else. Also culture, voluntary in this sector, is about the basic objectives of the policy of the Red-Green Government: more justice, that everyone should experience equivalency, that everyone should participate in society on equal terms, that everyone should develop their skills whether they live in the city or in the countryside, whether it is a boy or a girl, disabled or healthy, black or white. We want an inclusive, participating society. Culture, volunteering – all we do in this field – is just about it, and therefore it becomes part of the big red-green project. This budget is simply the full delivery of the promises we made in the Soria Maria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2158	It is very good that the Minister of Culture is also Minister of the Church. I want to talk a little bit about it, and ask a question that's important to me. The council says he wants to strengthen church democracy, but we also see that the government in the last two budgets actually reduces transfers to the elected councils. An improved local economy has not just given these additional appropriations. How, then, can the minister of the Church, on the one hand, defend democratic development while reducing the economic freedom of the church democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2167	We cut some of the transfers to the Joint Council in the municipalities, the earmarked grant, both in 2006 and 2007. These included: because that scheme was initially intended to be a temporary scheme. But only in 2006 do we increase the municipal budget by $11.5 billion. Only the increase that our municipal budget contributed to extra funding for church purposes in the Oslo Municipality alone was greater than the entire nationwide cut we had in the earmarked arrangement. Making sure that municipalities have a solid economy is what helps Kirke-Norge to work. We're saying that we have a state church, but we might have a municipal church first. It's the municipalities that do social work, it's the ones that make sure it's hot in the church, it's the ones that make sure the roof is tight, it's the ones that make sure you have money for community church advice, and it's the ones that drive the fundamental grassroots activity in the church. The $11.5 billion that the 2006 scheme finally gave to the municipalities means infinitely more than the $10-15 million. kr that have been cut at Joint Church Council in an ear-marked arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2172	It's a party to listen to the Council of State Guess when he makes his calculations in relation to how much goes to culture. There's no doubt that there's much to culture either. Right is going to be on as well as every penny, and then we're going to have a few more heads to put in hist and here. There's also another question about the amount of money, and it's about what happens to cultural life when you have such a large source of funding as the state now becomes. Is it perhaps that one should focus on other types of decision-makers than the traditional state? Should you try to produce environments that also manage cultural money, which can build bridges against business? I then aim to get on the legs of a cultural and business organization, perhaps something like what you have in England. The Council of State itself has pointed to issues related to, for example: close links between those sitting on the Norwegian Cultural Council and the applicants. Will the Council of State help to channel part of the money he has into such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2181	I'm for all the private money we can get into cultural life. We spend more of our private consumption on culture. We buy DVDs, we go to concerts, we go to festivals. As we have more than enough material things, we demand that kind of thing. It's very, very positive. We should get private sponsors in, we should get the mesenculture -- people who have a lot of money should simply give up their wealth to build society around them. But perhaps just when more and more private consumption goes into the cultural sector, it is so important to hold onto the cultural part that is not going to be commercial, that is not going to have a market and that is not necessarily going to pay off. That balance is important to get. I think it's very nice that the Right doesn't make big cuts in the cultural budget. That means they're involved in the powerful cultural revolution that we're in. But what's interesting then is that the Progress Party is proposing a cut of 700-800 million. kr. So what kind of politics a bourgeois government consisting of four parties, as Right wants, will lead, there will be a big question and a very big uncertainty moment for the whole of Culture Norway as we approach the election campaign in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2190	For the Christian People's Party, it's important to have an offensive and good cultural budget, and it's a good cultural budget that comes next year. We've had a lot of hearings and recordings from different organizations. Norwegian Cultural Forum says that they lack a more holistic approach for the larger disciplines. Norsk Kulturforum points out that the Department prioritises sub-areas and individual actions rather than the follow-up of long-term plans for major disciplines, in particular the follow-up to the economic escalation plan for archives, libraries and museums. One knows that when it comes to the merging of the museum, it's important to follow up the ABM message. When you go through painful consolidations, you expect one to gain a financial gain from it. Does the Council feel obliged to follow up the reform of ABM in the forthcoming cultural budgets, although the reform may not produce results in the form of string cutting?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2199	Once again, I'm glad that former government parties now see that culture is important. So we're betting in 2007. 65 million. kr, as far as I remember on the go, in the museum sector alone. The growth in the last cultural budget, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, was 100 million. kr. We have two thirds of the entire growth only in the museum sector, a revolution in the implementation of the ABM message and the museum consolidation in relation to what the previous government was doing. So yes, we're going to follow up that reform. It is an important reform. We have to spend a little longer time because the previous government was so late, but we have full pressure on it. You can say that a five-fold increase in the cultural budget compared to your own budget when you were in government is not enough, but I think it is positive that you get a broad upturn. And once again, the same challenge to the Christian People's Party as to the Left and the Right: what happens to cultural policy when a party as large as these together becomes part of the political leadership? It worries a lot, a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2209	The progress party wants a lower, simpler and more conservative tax system than what we have today. That is also the basis of our alternative state budget. We believe that tax and lower taxes are an important requirement for good value creation, and we also believe that this is an important commitment to increased well-being. So in our value, there's no distinction between taxes on one side and welfare on the other. In our value it is that by providing lower taxes we will also increase well-being. We have an alternative state budget with a total tax and tax relief of just under NOK 26 billion, which we have financed with a net cut in the state budget of NOK 11.5 billion and the remainder in the event of a reduced surplus. So we have a slightly larger use of oil than the rest of the Stortinget, but what we think is both defensive and sensible. We have a device on it that will create no pressure in the economy, and we will also stimulate increased value creation for the future. We've allocated this to corporate taxes, which will make it more attractive to start business in Norway, to personal taxes, which will make it more profitable to work, which will lead to more people working, and we've invested a lot in infrastructure, which means that we get more ways and more opportunities to drive value creation in Norway. We note that the Government has broken its tax promise to keep the tax burden at 2004 level at a total of DKK 1 billion. I've been listening to the excuses here. The only thing is that you start mixing differentiated employer fees. Then I have to remind you that a whole pile has gone in for a reintroduction of the differentiated employer's fee, and it is not clear that if we had not received it, it would be compensated for kroner. The most important thing about the profile of the Progress Party scheme is that we introduce a higher deduction and a higher minimum deduction than the government has proposed. Of course, it will have the greatest effect on those with lower and medium incomes. We mean that it's fair and, of course, that most people have to keep a greater share of their income. We don't say that one gives money to taxpayers when we reduce taxes – in our value, it's so that we let taxpayers keep more of their own money. In addition to this, tax incentives will also stimulate increased labour supply, as the individual will then have more left to work extra. Tax bills will also help tax payers to increase purchasing power without having to charge large gross pay supplements. This will once again provide the basis for increased economic growth without capacity problems. We've also increased the credit card limit to $70 000. We mean that the government's attitude to this by taxing those with the lowest income is double moral. We find that the government defines those who are less than NOK 95 000, who are so poor that they will not be able to participate in a normal social life. Of course, we are quite a few. Burying in Norway, with our high fee level, and having only $95 000 to travel with, one has not very liberal. Then it's a double morality that a charge of NOK 95 000 to pay NOK 14 000 to the community in taxes. That's what we want to end up with. We've also started stepping down, so that we have a credit card limit of NOK 70,000 in our budget. In addition to the tax havens, of course, we also have some tax breaks that are important. We have opposed the tax reinforcements proposed by the Government. In addition, we have reduced both the petrol charge and the electricity charge, we have reduced the document fee by 25 pst., and some other things. That's what we think is important. We believe that our alternative state budget thus facilitates economic growth and that more people should be able to cope with their own income, without being dependent on public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2230	Lack of social links is the main cause of poverty. This is confirmed in the statistical central agency report ‘Going into and out of poverty’. This is precisely why it is so important to have an economic policy that contributes to new jobs, a competitive business and low unemployment, as we did in the entire previous growing period when the Right Minister of Finance was sitting, and that today’s red-green government came to the table in the autumn of 2005. Because it is a fact that record new jobs are being created today, and unemployment is falling to a record low level – and indeed long before the red-green government has adopted its first self-produced government budget. So the reason obviously has to be the policy that was pursued over the previous ageing period, in combination with good business cycles. For the Right, it is a goal that each person should be able to take responsibility for his own life and be self-held. Therefore, an active poverty policy must be geared towards encouraging those who can, are encouraged to work or to get into work. Therefore, it is important that a tax policy is implemented which makes it pay to work. And that is why it is important to have a welfare policy that makes it no more profitable to go to social security or social security instead of work. Those who are poor in Norway are, despite the fact that we have good support and protection systems for everyone. Then it doesn't help with more of the same medicine. Therefore, measures must be targeted and address the causes of poverty. What did we do when we were in government? As the first government in recent times, the Centre — the Right Government — addressed the problems and made its own plan to combat poverty. Over the period 2002–2006, targeted action against poverty amounted to DKK 4.9 billion. The number of job vacancies for people with disabilities increased sharply by 700 jobs. A new probationary system was put in place in which the disability pension can be used for a longer period as a subsidy to employers who employ unemployees. A project was launched to help former long-term social assistance recipients get to work and education. The housing aid scheme was greatly improved for families with children, etc. We strengthened medically assisted rehabilitation, plus much, much more. The list could have been done much longer. In view of this, the action plan against poverty promoted by the Government through this budgetary procedure becomes rather puzzled. Although it contains several isolated good proposals, the Right in its Alternative State Budget has found reason to launch further measures that go far beyond what the Government itself has come up with to combat poverty. I note with satisfaction that the Government in the issues it has brought to the Stortinget — well to note in the area of social policy — places emphasis on principles such as targeting, user adaptation and tailoring. The main approach taken by the Government in the so-called welfare message is that a social minister from the Right could have suggested much of the same. This is good. Right is too good social arrangements, because we believe that people who are sick or unable to work should have a decent living. But we are equally clear that people who can work should work, and not be referred to living from social benefits. That is why the Right has called for all those who are physically and mentally healthy and able to work to have a right and duty to get into action. The public must be able to make demands on the individual and individual should be able to require individual assistance on the way back to work. Activity helps to build work capacity and self-esteem. That is why it is good that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has called for social clients to ‘get up’. But then it is also absolutely essential that they have something concrete and meaningful to get up to. Municipalities have today the right to demand that beneficiaries of social economic assistance carry out work for the municipality. Some municipalities make use of this possibility. The right and obligation of activity can mean everything from being committed to actively seeking a job to doing local community jobs that the municipality provides. We know from experience that it is mainly those who have little, and those who are poor in resources, who become losers if Norway goes bad. If an irresponsible economic policy is pursued where interest rates rise, the krone price rise, the prices rise, companies go bankrupt and jobs are lost, tens of thousands of the Nordics who today manage themselves will lose foothold and become dependent on social assistance and social welfare. It is with this in mind that we should debate in as good times as we have now how economic policy should be set up in 2007 and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2256	I want to start by saying that to me it has been particularly interesting that many in the debate have been concerned about the situation in the labour market. It's been interesting, because there's every reason to be concerned about it. There's a very strong growth in employment. In the last year, 60,000 more people have come to work. The availability is very low – now 2.2 pst. It is alarming that there is now greater demand for labour than the number of full-time jobs, i.e. more unemployed than the number of full-time jobs. And most importantly, demographic developments indicate that this is not just a situation relating to the high economic conditions that today characterise the Norwegian economy. Labour shortages could also be felt in low economic conditions. In many ways, the main limiting factor for Norwegian enterprises today is not a lack of contracts and assignments, but a lack of skills and labour. It is therefore very important to put in place a long-term strategy to meet these challenges. The government does. The government is working on two main strategies. First, today, 28 November, there are 700,000 people in Norway who are not at work but who are at home living with some kind of social benefit. It's crazy, sick, unemployed, people reintroducing, etc. The number is growing, and the trend is going in the wrong direction. If we can't do anything about these questions, it's not a question of whether it goes wrong, but of when it goes wrong. We have to get more people to work. We're going to have to get less money. That is why it has also been very important for the Government to make a strategy for that in the budget under consideration. There is a heavy budget commitment to general labour market measures at a time when unemployment is falling. There is a strong commitment to measures for people with disabilities at a time when the number of people with disabilities is falling. There is full force in the implementation of one of our most important social reforms, the NAV reform. Hundreds of millions are being invested in implementation, and 110 new NAV offices will be set up next year. There is a heavy commitment in the budget to the poverty action plan, more than ever, to the level of the previous government action plans. The focus is strongly focused on work. There is a heavy commitment to the action plan for integration and inclusion, with a focus on work. There are a number of new measures in the budget to reduce sick leave. In the autumn, the Government has also provided two very important big messages that provide the basis for major social reforms, which will also be very important in achieving the goal of getting more people to work. Of course, I am thinking about the pension reform, the retirement message, and the notification of work, well-being and inclusion. The second main strategy pursued by the Government to meet the challenges of the labour market is the focus on increasing labour migration. So far, we have had a very strong national focus on labour immigration from the former Eastern European countries that joined the EU in 2004. It's important to keep going there. I think there's still a potential in more labour from there, and that's why we do it. In the budget, we are strengthening NAV by 10 million. kr for more active recruitment work in Europe. It is not a common effort by a government, but a recognition that the challenges in the labour market are significant. But we have to take into account increased activity in relation to labour immigration. We need a national strategy for labour immigration, including for areas outside the EEA. I therefore start working on such a strategy these days. In other words, those who say that the government does not take the challenges seriously in the labour market are taking serious mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2279	In its contribution, the Council of State was involved in the action plan against poverty. The political platform from Soria Moria states that the new government will fight poverty. There's also a frame of eight points on how to do it. The word minimum pension is not mentioned once in that declaration. I have also previously tried to challenge the Council of State on this issue. Today, we have 246,000 minimum pensioners. Governments have referred to the pension reform when I have previously asked questions about this. The 246 000 current minimum pensioners will not be affected by the new pension reform. Does the Council of State think that the income of today's minimum pensioners is acceptable, or what is the acceptable income level of a minimum pensioner, which the Council of State in opposition was very much to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2286	The last one is directly wrong. The Labour Party or I have never made proposals in the Stortinget where we were going to do something about the minimum pension, except that we have been very hard on getting a system that is about the pensions under the people's pension system we have today to be regulated in line with wage developments. This led us to vote in favour of the Bondevik Government's proposal for social security settlement in the last growing period and to adopt the regulation of the basic amount of the population's wealth here in the staging room. So I, the Labour Party and the government parties have been the tone-setting to put in place a majority here in the Chamber that makes sure that the public interest is regulated in line with wage developments. We've followed that up in this government. Moreover, it is not surprising that the Progress Party is engaged by minimum pensioners, with a policy that will lead to everyone becoming a minimum pensioner in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2293	The Council of State was barely in the hands of the Government's impoverishment in its intervention. I understand that very well. Not that the recruitment of new jobs is not important – it is very important. I want to drill a little bit more in what ambitions the government has associated with poverty reduction. In connection with the illustrious negotiations on Soria Moria during the reigning days of the government, an NTB message was issued, among other things. The following statement was made: ‘The day before, the red-greens in their government statement by Soria Moria went high and promised that poverty in Norway will be combated over the next four years.’ So then Secretary-General Helen Bjørnøy said: "I am very pleased about that. They've put the level of ambition so high that their credibility is at stake if they can't do it. I hope and believe that they will do it." So it said the current Environment Minister Helen Bjørnøy, who was then Secretary General of the Church's City Mission. How is the level of accuracy of the Government? Should poverty be combated, or should poverty be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2312	Let me start by saying that what is at least alarming is if a representative of the Right is not satisfied with the level of the action plan against poverty. It's probably about twice the level of the previous government. Then I don't know what kind of words you're going to use to describe what the previous government did in this area, if you're dissatisfied with what we're doing now. This government has an ambition to eliminate poverty. What is fundamental to that objective is that I believe that when this ageing period is over, there will still be poverty in Norway. But I am absolutely convinced that such an ambitious objective will lead to fewer poor people in Norway than if the government had not had such ambitious objectives. That means that combating poverty is at the top of the agenda for us, it is on our table every day, and we are systematically working to combat poverty. I am absolutely sure that we will succeed in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2319	As I know the Council of State, I think he would have wanted to offer 27,300 jobs to disabled people in the current year. Nevertheless, it was cut at 172 million. kr in the revised national budget for this purpose. Last Friday we were told that NAV, in violation of the Stortinget decision, reduces the level of action by 1,200 places this year. This is unacceptable when we know that almost 30,000 people with disabilities are waiting for qualification measures so that they can get a job opportunity. My question is, as attention is now focused on 2007, how will the Council of State ensure that users of NAV in general and those with a particular disability receive help, in line with the clear assumptions of the Stortingen, in 2007? What measures will be taken to ensure that the Storting's target for the number of job-impaired job vacancies is reached next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2326	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund that what has happened with the number of places for disabled people this year is not acceptable. That is why I have made it very clear to NAV. This has led to a huge effort in NAV to get into a situation where, at the end of the year, at least when the level we need to reach the ambitions for next year, which is very high, 28 000 places. I can do nothing but promise that I will do everything in my power and follow closely the implementation of the measures in NAV next year. In this way I am absolutely sure that I will receive good help from the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2333	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2336	After speeches have tried to frighten the consequences of the policy of the Progress Party, I thought that I would look a little at what is happening in AS Norway per year. Today, with the well-being of which we are so proud, as the representative Schjött-Pedersen expressed it a little earlier today, where the differences are decreasing, unemployment is low and public welfare is so good. What's the situation? Sick people are in a hospital queue. Criminals are in a payroll queue. Public buildings are due. The roads are in a wretched constitution. The defense is being dismantled step by step. The dissemination of knowledge in schools is low and the turmoil in classrooms is similar. Immigration is out of control and a costly integration policy is not working. Crime is increasing. Respect for authorities is on the waving front. 240 000 minimum pensioners live below the poverty line of the OECD. 340 000 people are disabled, and we have a record number of employees in the public sector. As if that wasn't enough, we have one of the world's highest tax levels. And to really put things in perspective, we have 1,713 billion oil crowns invested in our competitors' businesses through the State pension fund. Welcome to the welfare state of social democracy! ‘Norway is changing, step by step’, said the representative Schjött-Pedersen, spokesperson for fiscal policy in the Labour Party. It's very touching. The truth is, the richer we've become, the more incapable we've become to solve the challenges of society. I would venture the claim that the safety and well-being in many areas were far better protected before we had a single oil crown. In the above analysis, the FrP code is also widely mentioned: the government simply does not understand the frustration and unrest that most people feel about the development of society. Despite red-green rhetoric, we also feel that differences in society are increasing, and that more and more people are falling outside the regular labour market. While the reported unemployment is now record low, the entire 11 pst goes. by the North between 18 and 65 years of age on disability insurance. In total, 1.1 million people today have public social security as their main income. If Norwegian socialists have created the non-profit welfare state, why is it not copied by other countries? Is it possible because the welfare state does not see the uniqueness of each individual person? Is it because the welfare state forces all the same public welfare solution? Is it because the welfare state defines increasingly large groups of people as weak and needy? Is it because the welfare state makes more and more dependence on public transfers? Is it because the welfare state's clever immigration policy has led to segregation and exclusion? Is it perhaps because in the welfare state there is an increasing number of public employees? Is it because other countries have discovered that one job in the private sector needs to finance public welfare for five people? Is this because the welfare state does not seem to be able to invest for future growth in the private sector? Or is it simply because feedback from Norwegian school students, Corridor Asians, victims of crime, motorists, entrepreneurs, merchants, teachers, officers, policemen, minimum pensioners, yes, most people suggest that the model should not be copied? In other words, is it possible that a society based on collective solutions, equality and envy simply cannot function in an individualistic, heterogeneous and global market economy? What we know, however, is that very few countries look to Norway to design their welfare models. The question that we should then ask ourselves is, is, is it possible that we have something to learn from other countries? But, of course, such thoughts are of little use in the high castle of social democracy, as the 2007 budget also confirms. In the red-green budget, the Government confirms that volunteering, private initiative, personal responsibility and private ownership are to be replaced by public bureaucracy, publicly controlled processes, public welfare and public ownership. In a global market economy, tailored to individual needs and wishes, the Government proves that it simply does not follow in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2353	Today, we have heard a lot from very many of the government parties' representatives about how well-being in this country has spread over the last year as a hot lava stream of goodness and community into the furthest corner of the country. The choice last autumn was the great watershed in welfare development, and the positional figures have to be understood. The simplified context of the election struggle between well-being and tax relief is repeated, without making it any more correct for that reason. «Pengar is a storkna mannesvette», wrote Aasmund Olavsson Vinje in Dølen 140 years ago. If the nation of Norway had known the term ‘welfare’ at the time, he would have written that well-being is ‘daughter’. Sometimes it might seem like a lot of people are about to forget about it. Values must be created before they can be distributed and turned into, for example: welfare. It is paradoxical that the slogans of the government parties in today's debate seem to be that the opposition lacks DKK 12 billion in relation to the tax problem, while the uninhibited spend of several tens of billions in increased tax revenues, and among others. has arisen from the IA case just because of an increase in taxes, made possible by a previously reduced level of taxation for enterprises and workers. If we have a government that seriously believes that tax levels and framework conditions do not play a role in how workers and businesses act, there is cause for concern. The tax level inspires and motivates work. It is, of course, the power of individuals, the energy of individuals and the will to work that creates the values on which the welfare state builds – not only the material values of society and the individual, but also the value of getting a job, belonging to a community, and not least to having a chance in this community. This is why it is important to get the most involved in the workforce. If not, this building work that consists of every individual human being will, every and every time, weigh to the benefit of the belief in the omnipotent state that solves our problems through ever-increasing appropriations for well-being, without making demands, and without creating opportunities for each one to take responsibility. We have not heard anything about this from the government parties today. We haven't heard anything about how to get more people to work, how to inspire to work, to set up businesses, to save. We haven't heard anything about why it was right to strangle all the personal savings with a pen stroke in May this year by removing the IPA and annuity scheme. Now something has been turned back, but nevertheless more than 800,000 people without a warning were thwarting a new order over the head on 12 May. We've heard little about why it's right to increase taxes on work. In a nation where labour shortages are now under pressure both at wage levels and after each interest rate, the Government considers it appropriate to signal that the peak tax on ordinary income should be increased — not dramatically, but it is a strong signal of the attitude of those who create values. We have heard little and nothing about why it is right once again to punish investment in jobs. For those who save in unit trusts or shares, there may be 1 million people who receive increased taxes – even this is contrary to the objective of investing in business and establishing jobs. The right-hand side believes that well-being is built by making work pay. That's why we're reducing the tax on ordinary employee income where the Government is increasing it. We believe that welfare is built by saving. That is why we are promoting savings and trying to correct some of the adverse effects of the Government's proposals. We believe that welfare is built by investing. That is why we are lowering the tax on investment in Norwegian jobs. However, we also believe that welfare is privately built by each individual and that the interest rate, which is important for the family economy, must be the lowest possible. That's why we spend less oil money on our budget at the top of a boom. We also believe that welfare is built by investing for the future: in knowledge, in education and not least in research. That's why the Right goes into its alternative budget to invest $1 billion more than the Government just in the future. But first of all, we believe that welfare is built by bringing more people into the labour market – by giving people a new chance, first in the school system, but also in the labour market. It will strengthen the foundation of the welfare society. It will give more people a more meaningful life, but above all it will give society an increased opportunity to strengthen the safety nets for the very weakest among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28.ana.ud2407e2372	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. The evening meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
