ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e51	The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, has taken the seat. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e59	On behalf of the representatives of Inge Wohnning, Berit Brørby, Lodve Solholm, Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure concerning the handling of constitutional liability matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e64	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e67	On behalf of Ola T. Lånke, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to clarify security of supply and to give the state the right and obligation to produce new power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e86	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e93	The issue of allowing advertising for life's views and political embassies on television has been discussed and assessed by Stortinget a number of times. On most occasions there is a solid plurality in the Stortinget that has rejected the proposals for political advertising on television. In the previous period, however, the Bondevik II government re-launched this proposal, and it then got several. Now it's like those who were multiples, now they're minority, and that's why things are up again. Today's government party has always had as its starting point that we don't want advertising for political ambassadors and parties on television, and so the government has come forward with this big message, where one makes it clear that one doesn't want to open up to this kind of advertising. The positions between the different parties are the same as before, and I am sure that the different parties will do their best to make their views known in the debate. For the Labour Party, and I dare to include the SV and the Centre, it is that we believe that political advertising on television is nothing, it is not something we need, and it will not contribute to the increase and improvement of political debate, political interest and participation. And that's what we're most concerned about -- how we can create more and better political debate, and how we can get more people to participate. I mean the experience we have with political advertising on television in other countries, for example. in the United States, actually, with all due clarity, this is something we have to try to avoid. Very often, political debates are complex; there is a need for balances; there is a need for explanation and discussion. Advertising on television is hardly a good way to ensure these concerns. A simple or preposterous political outburst by means of television advertising is not on fire. There are many countries that have similar prohibitions or other restrictions, probably based on the same assessments. I see that the freedom of expression is often the basis for allowing political advertising on television. Had freedom of expression been threatened, if political penance or life-viewing had not been possible in the public debate, I would also have been concerned. But we believe it to the same extent is that keeping a ban on political advertising on television helps to secure the real freedom of expression – to ensure a real level playing field. Television advertising is expensive both to produce and to distribute. Television has a stronger impact than other media, including Therefore, it would be unfortunate and not desirable for any few large and economically strong parties or groups to be able to premise the public opinion where others do not have the possibility to set up and participate. One might think that in the Workers' Party we would take a positive view of political advertising on television, because we are such a big party as we are, and probably have other arrangements to finance advertising than the individual smaller party has. But, for our part, it's a principle hold to ensure equivalent conditions to participate in the public debate. We believe that both the political parties, other interest groups and religious organizations have many and good opportunities to express their views in the public debate without the need for television advertising. Diverging between political and life-seeking messages is not an easy distinction in all. That is why, as the Government proposes, it is also right to maintain the ban on television advertising for both political and life-seeking. Finally, I would like to say that it is good that the Christian People's Party supports its rulings, and that they go away from the line they put on in the Bondevik government. It makes this multiple even bigger and better. The message the Government has submitted, and to which the plural now joins, means that we will continue with the practice we know today, and which I believe the very majority of mine is a good practice, with the ban on advertising political party and life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e123	The Broadcasting Act prohibits advertising of life's views and political messages on television. This prohibition has been lifted on several occasions by the Progress Party, but it has been maintained by the majority of the Grand Duchy. At NOW 1999: 27, ‘Freedom of expression should be found’, the Freedom of Speech Commission intervened in order to remove the current legal ban. During the period 2001–2005, the Government of Bondevik II announced that it would make proposals to lift the ban. The then majority on the Biggest agreed to this. In NOW 2004: 25 – Money counts, but votes decide, the Democratic Finance Committee proposed, in the light of the notification, four alternative regulatory regimes. The Bondevik II Government then sent a proposal to consult on the lifting of the ban, replaced by a temporary ban on electoral campaigns. Political television advertising is permitted in a number of countries. Such advertising has been permitted in Finland since 1991. Political television advertising in Finland is subject to few restrictions. It's e.g. no legal provision limiting the amount of political advertising that can be purchased or the length of advertising. I would also like to point out that since 1951 in the United Kingdom it has been shown so-called Party Election Broadcasts on television before parliamentary elections. This is the shipment time that the batches are given without having to pay for it. Today, the system also operates in local elections and elections of the European Parliament. In addition, the batches are allocated free of charge at other annual political highlights, such as: in relation to the Queen's annual speech and in relation to party conferences, etc. In Germany, the law allows registered political parties to advertise on television prior to elections. All registered batches are entitled to free transmission time at the public owned television stations during the pre-election period. Advertising time is not allowed only for lots already selected in the Bundestag. However, the size of the lots is important by dividing the time of dispatch by the end of the lots. In addition, all registered batches may purchase advertising time at commercial television stations during the same period. The price has been fixed for the costs incurred by the television station in connection with the consignment. It is also well known that political advertising is permitted in the United States and is seen as a central part of freedom of expression. Return to the suspension of the freedom of expression Commission. The Commission was appointed in 1996 by the Brundtland III Government to carry out a fundamental review of the position of freedom of expression in our society. At the heart of the work was a revision of freedom of expression’s constitutional protection. The majority of the Commission considered that political advertising should be allowed. The majority’s reasons for allowing political advertising on television included, inter alia: that, although not all types of opinions have an equally strong requirement for protection, there must be large margins for unsolicited opinions. That means that if you first have a channel where it is open to items that the outsider himself pays for, it must have very strong arguments to ban certain types of statements. Among other things, point out that the current ban on political advertising on television may have paradoxical effects as long as other advertising is permitted. The majority exemplified this by the fact that lifestyle advertising, which will often be of a clearly manipulative nature, is permitted, while life-vision advertising shall be prohibited. During the consultation round, a majority of the hearing bodies supported the Commission’s proposals, mainly on the grounds that political opinions should have special protection and that it is difficult to justify discrimination between different media. Political advertising is permitted in printed media, on the Internet and on radio. Furthermore, the Communication states that there are prominent lawyers who consider that the prohibition of political advertising is unconstitutional and/or contrary to Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Progress Party concludes that there are a number of factors that speak of lifting today’s ban. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value in a modern society. The prohibition represents a restriction of freedom of expression. We believe that lifting the ban will strengthen a good framework for political debate and a democratic electoral process. With this, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e151	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e154	The question we are discussing now concerns the limits of freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is a central and fundamental principle in our society, in our democracy. This should be very important and very good reason for making restrictions on what is the starting point of freedom of expression, that we should be able to say what we want to say. In this case, as far as the Right can see, there are no particularly good reasons for restricting freedom of expression. The rapporteur mentioned on behalf of the government parties that political advertising or advertising of life views is not something we need. No, need-- that might be, that's a lot we don't need. But it is not the case that freedom of expression should be limited by such reasoning. The restriction must, of course, be based on much more stringent principles than those described. It was also said that it was important to have a real level playing field. Yeah, it could be. On the other hand, we have advertising, for example. within the political and mass of other platforms, newspapers, leaflets, political agitation material is produced from the parties in the election campaigns. There is a big difference in the extent to which you have a financial back to do so, and the TV media, after all, are not so different that there should be reason to have special rules for this. That is why we are in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right that advertising of life's views and political messages should be allowed in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e165	The Broadcasting Act today bans the advertising of life views and political messages on television. On several occasions this ban has been proposed, but the ban has been upheld by Stortinget. The government now proposes, through the processing of this notification, to maintain that prohibition. It's a pleasure. Advertising for life's views and political matters, arguments or ideologies are largely about beliefs of a personal nature, and such advertising may seem offensive to many people. Political advertising may give recipients a distorted view of complex issues that are appropriate in very different forums and in an open form of debate, not in a wrapped message that affects in a particular direction and that could mislead the recipient. We all have that experience when we look at ordinary advertising that is broadcast daily in the television media. Advertising and buying shows in the best delivery time are very expensive. There will be distortions in relation to who has enough resources to buy this kind of communication, and who doesn't have it. It is not desirable from the point of view of the SV to further reinforce the biases that already exist in terms of freedom of expression and provision of information. A number of other European countries also have prohibitions or restrictions on the right to send out advertisements for political messages, such as: Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany. The most widely used arguments against the ban on advertising of life views and political messages on television are that it restricts freedom of expression. We disagree on this. The retention of the prohibition does not limit freedom of expression. All parties, stakeholder organisations and religious organisations have many opportunities to express themselves in the public debate – it may be websites, organised meetings, various material being broadcast, debates through mass media communication such as TV, radio, web meetings, stoppages, demonstrations, etc. The prohibition is neither contrary to the Basic Law § 100 on freedom of expression nor an obstacle to continuing to stimulate and strengthen a good framework for political debate and a democratic electoral process. Television is a medium with a large contact surface and particularly strong impact with a strong impact on the formation of opinion. Advertising on television affects and hits more than advertising on other media. Should the actors be kept out because of lack of financial resources, there would be a breach of the principle of equal opportunities to advance their message. Freedom of expression shall apply to all. There are already many people today who have no vote in favour of the big community, who are being stopped by, for example. prejudices and lack of opportunity to speak their case. Political and television advertising of life will reinforce these differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e180	Television is a very pervasive medium, and television advertising has a great effect. There is no reason to believe that political advertising and life-vision advertising would be ineffective if it were open to such advertising on television as well. It's a tempting thought to be able to send center party commercials out through the TV screens of the thousands of homes. With a great green background, partisans Åslaug Haga could walk through well-kept cultural landscapes while she told viewers how important it is to ensure good care for the elderly and good schooling throughout the country. Maybe she could hand over a check to the Center Party's spokesman in Förde, Nils Gjerland, and in that way she could get out what the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have done for the municipal economy. Smiling sick home dwellers and schoolchildren could sing in the background. Together, they could walk along the road and turn off a chat with the Civil Service Council, Navarsete, which stood and paved, and they could point away at the two gentlemen Lars Peder Breck and Per Olaf Lundtegen who were about to install broadband for ever new households. All this before a ferry sailed into the sunset with an extended schedule and a smiling Magnhild Melting Group Paste behind the rudder. With good sponsor income, these images could flicker over the TV screens late and early, in the freedom of speech's name and without protests and critical questions from the opposition. Yes, of course it's tempting. But had it started the social debate? Or would it be with creating a distorted picture of questions that are often much more complicated? Unfortunately, I think the last one, and even though I'm overestimated that the Center Party has the best solutions for this country. The frequency with which the happy central partitions were flickering over the screens depended on the receipts of the batch. A lot or an organization with large resources could send advertising much more often than a lot with smaller resources. Freedom of expression is supposed to apply to everyone. In such a case, he would only apply to those who had enough resources to come out with his message. One would thus enhance the biased distribution in the relationship between freedom of expression and information that is already present. It could have been that some of the other parties had found their way into the advertising from the Center Party and had seen a bit of counter-advertising going on, where one of the more or less problematic solutions to the party and maybe had one or two real slots. Did such a boxing have its way through the TV screen – where the evening film was interrupted by advertising for two different political directions every other time – be a strength for the Norwegian social debate? I don't think so. Resource-intensive interests would have a much greater impact than those with smaller resources. We are not alone in seeing these issues. A number of countries have restrictions on television advertising. Examples here are several of our neighboring countries. If, in order to strengthen freedom of expression, the Right Party and the Advance Party are willing to regulate advertising by imposing on television stations the obligation to allocate time to different parties and to set a certain time in the television stations for this purpose, is there any reason to ask: why is it not a willing and equally eager thing to do when it comes to political debate? Why does one not then suggest in this room that the television stations should use so many hours and so many days and so many days to send political debate, where one could develop different political views? The Central Party supports the Government in the view that freedom of expression is well maintained through the possibilities of the parties and organizations today to present their views in the public debate. We therefore support the continuation of the ban on political advertising and television live television advertising.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e199	The left is to open up advertising for life's views and political messages on television as well. It is not possible to justify the fact that political advertising shall be permitted in one type of medium, whereas it shall be prohibited in other media. It is an unnatural distinction that should be abolished. The left agrees with the majority of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, which in its position clearly states that political advertising on television will help to strengthen the status of freedom of expression. I do not think the argument used by the majority in its position today is well adapted to the current situation. The setting could have been written in many ways 20 years ago. The argumentation is in no way up-to-date with regard to technological developments, nor does one discuss the current practical dilemmas. How can a person, for example, justify the possibility of having political advertising in P4, a nationwide radio broadcast, while prohibiting the use of political advertising in a regional television broadcast? How can one be open to advertise in the media where buying one or more whole pages costs hundreds of thousands of centimeters, while not being able to advertise in the tens of thousands of centimeters class in a local television medium? The last thing we've seen has been effective in small batches. In Rogaland, the Pensioner Party used the local television station to reach out with its message. I have no doubt that, for example, the regional television media can help small parties and small groupings to achieve more effectively their message if it is concentrated. These issues have not been discussed in the vote. They should have been. At all, one does not take on the technological developments and the dilemmas it brings. The Internet offers many opportunities in the frontier country towards the television media. And it's quite natural that those who work with VG Net say that the majority position is a gift package for them. Already in the previous election there were links from the VG website to live images with forward party advertising. This one will see a lot more of it, and one will also see that the parties use it with animated images on the Internet, so that a person gets a fluid transition compared to the TV medium. It will be enhanced by web-tv channeled via broadband, a system that many people also use to get NRK TV broadcasts. I am in favour of having a discussion and discussion framework that will allow several parties to be released with television advertising. It is also reflected in the Left's proposal. The majority say in their explanatory statement that television advertising can contribute to ‘bad’ debate and can ‘give a distorted picture of complex issues’. That's why one is against TV advertising. That's a strange reasoning. It is certainly political activity today that gives an incomplete picture of complex issues and that can give a distorted presentation, but there could not be anyone in favour of banning the channels where this is conveyed. So that's not a relevant argument in terms of this medium at all — nor is it any other. I am promoting this proposal by the Left. In conclusion, I would like to conclude that this is an area in which technological development and the smart and good solutions it opens up will shape policy developments – and not politicians. They have through the position presented by the majority, in many ways abdicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e222	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e226	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee endorses the Government's proposal that today's ban on advertising of life and political messages on television be maintained. The background to this big message is that the government of Bondevik II announced in the last growing period that it would make proposals to lift the ban on advertising of life views and political messages on television as a result of the amendment to the Basic Law § 100, and agreed to it in the Stortinget. However, the government at that time argued – and it is important – that the new constitutional provision on freedom of expression should not prevent the ban on advertising of life views and political messages by the broadcasting law from being maintained in its present form. The current government is in favour of maintaining today's ban on advertising of life views and political messages on television. I am pleased to note that the Christian People's Party also expresses their agreement with the Government that the prohibition should be maintained. After hearing the post of the representative Sande on advertising posts with the representatives Haga and Meltveit Kleppa, it may be that some of the parties on the right will reconsider their view of the question. Norway is also bound in this area by Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which shall ensure a minimum level of protection of freedom of expression. However, the right of expression may be restricted under certain conditions. It is clear from the case-law on which it is based. The intervention must be ‘prescribed by law’, it must have a legitimate purpose, and it must be ‘necessary in a democratic society’. The prohibition of political advertising by the Broadcasting Act has been tried before the Norwegian Court relatively recently. The Supreme Court confirmed by its judgment in the TV West case in 2004 that neither Paragraph 100 of the Constitution nor Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights precludes the prohibition of political advertising on television. The Supreme Court also stated that a ban on political advertising on television would not be contrary to the amended freedom of expression provision of the Constitution. We all agree that freedom of expression is a fundamental value in the modern society of justice, and that interference with this right must be well justified. The aim of the prohibition is not, therefore, to restrict freedom of expression, but rather to facilitate a good climate for information and discussion in Norwegian democracy. The ban on political advertising on television contributes positively to this in the Government's view. A lifting of the ban would put pressure on the use of television advertising as an instrument, for example: in the competition with the parties. Television advertising is expensive. In practice, the effective use of television as a advertising channel would be primarily an opportunity for actors with strong financial resources. The consequences of the lifting of the prohibition could therefore be that the views of resource-intensive groups would result in disproportionate exposure. Such a development would be very suspicious, considering the desire to maintain a fair and balanced political conversation. I would also like to stress that the consideration of freedom of expression must be regarded as well taken care of through the existing opportunities of political parties, stakeholder organisations and religious organisations to present their positions in the public debate. It kind of surprises me that a party like that. The left does not see that freedom of expression and good democratic debate are not just about the absence of rules restricting freedom of expression, but also about the fact that different forces must have an almost equivalent opportunity to make their views known. I have no doubt that the Workers' Party would be able to get the most money for a election campaign in competition with the Left, so really it might have been in our own interest. However, it must be a common objective to create a political debate where everyone has the opportunity to speak, and where those with the strongest money forces in their backs almost automatically win any discussion of opinion through the strongest instruments. The Broadcasting Act's ban on advertising of life's views and political messages relates to the television media. Consequently, the prohibition takes into account the fact that television is a medium with a particularly strong impact and that it is likely to have a greater impact on people’s opinion than advertising in other media. It also shows the choices made by commercial operators in relation to the advertising channels they use. A lifting of the advertising ban could also have undesirable effects on the nature of the political debate itself. Simplifications and rewriting are probably also taking place in the usual political debate, but I fear that the television media's advertising channels could have strengthened it. However, that is not the main reason. The main reason is precisely the consideration of freedom of expression and a good political debate with broad participation from all. Other countries also have similar rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e250	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e253	It was the SV representative's posts that made me react a little, and that's what I will initially comment on. I noticed that, in the view of SV, we should not have television advertising for political views, because it could mislead the receiver, and because someone has more money than others. The same reason could also be used to ban all advertising, and that might be the aim of SV: we can't let RIMI advertise on TV because Kiwi doesn't have that much money, and we can't let Coca-Cola advertise, because part of the advertising might mislead some recipients to think that you're going to be unhappy and get a wonderful life just buying a bottle of Coca-Cola. Another thing I reacted to in SV's articles was that it was categorically stated that such a prohibition was not contrary to the Constitution. Now it's new to me that SV's representative May Hansen is a constitutional lawyer and expert in that field. But it is clear from the proposition that there is a conflict among the learned constitutional lawyers as to whether this proposal is contrary to the Constitution. In this sense, there are some lawyers who believe that it is, and some who believe that it is not. But we're in the lucky situation that we have May Hansen's knowledge in this area. What we are discussing is restrictions on freedom of expression. Some believe that if you have restrictions on freedom of expression, you do not have freedom of expression, but have a limited right of expression — limited by what the political majority will allow. The political majority consists in this case of SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. I noticed that the representative of the Central Party claimed that we would regulate this by instructing the TV companies to allocate time to the various parties, etc. When I drew this up as an example, it was because you've done this in other countries. I said nothing about what we actually want and how this should be organised in Norway. Finally, in the articles on the left, it was pointed out that there is an ever-merging of the technologies. Then it becomes a paradox when we see TV advertising on broadband on the web. And I've never really understood this that when you run a campaign, you can buy ads online, you can buy whole pages in the newspaper, you can buy lots of time on the local radio, while buying some advertising time in a local TV station is forbidden. I find that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e268	I'm not a lawyer. She's a midwife. I would like to point out that there are a number of countries which prohibit or restrict the possibility of displaying political advertising on television, that the Constitution § 100 does not prevent the continuation of what is today's broadcasting law, and that today's prohibition does not conflict with Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. As far as television is concerned as a medium, we clearly know that it affects something quite different from what other media do. And every time this question has been raised, SV has been quite clear that we want the political debate to be open. It shall be possible for everyone to participate. In fact, it's very expensive to buy broadcasting time on television. This will affect the small batches, and it will limit the ability of the small batches to express themselves on the same line with others. We believe that this is in fact problematic in relation to the democratic process of elections in Norway. That's why we're against it. I believe that many advertisements are quite misleading, and I personally do not want to. We can, for example: take Tine milk – ‘must only have it’. What if it had been transferred in a political context — ‘must only have it’? In fact, I believe that the political debate is weakened by political advertising on television.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e279	SV ‘must just have it’ – I don’t feel deeply concerned about how we should approach that issue. I have to say it is to reflect on how to emphasise a fundamental democratic principle such as freedom of expression. The problem complex that relates to what freedom of expression should be must be given much more importance than what we need, what we like, what we think we need, or whether we would be able to think about having Haga, Melting Group Kleppa or others on the screen at regular intervals – although I admit that it also appears to be quite serious, considering how to live with it. When I asked for the floor, it was above all on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right to announce that we want to support the Left's proposal subsidiaryly. As far as the fundamental basis is common in our proposals, we can see that there will be themes within the Left's proposals that could later be the subject of debate. But what is important here is the principleal basis and the principleal community that is between the approach of our parties to the question of freedom of expression and what must be the limits of freedom of expression. We are therefore in favour of the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e291	For some of us, there is actually a difference between shampoo and politics. What a shampoo the Knudsen representative uses has little effect on the kind of society we get. But the voice-giving to people affects what kind of society we get, not only for those who deliver the voice, but also for the others in this society. Then there's an open question for the representative Knudsen's posts. Is it true that the Progress Party does not at all want any regulation in relation to its proposal to allow television advertising? And if you want some regulation, what are these regulations going to be about?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 811]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e314	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e323	I believe that both the proposers and the rest of us believe that Norwegian cultural heritage is important – important to take care of, important to have knowledge about and important to communicate. Norwegian cultural heritage gives us as a nation and gives us a sense of identity and community. The fact that this starting point and this understanding are best preserved by a cultural canon, as proposed by the proposers, is that all parties, apart from the Progress Party, disagree. It is very important that in the cultural debate and in the development of cultural life we do not create the impression that there is a distinction between Norwegian culture and other culture. One of the finest and best things about culture is that it binds together, creates understanding and development across borders, traditions, cultures, history. We must always stimulate a diverse cultural life where everyone can participate, a cultural life with many expressions, a cultural life that can both provoke and inspire. A cultural canon, in our opinion, will have an exclusive effect on cultural diversity and will have a delimiting effect. Culture shall not delimit; culture shall open. When you read the proposal from the Progress Party, it is easy to get the impression that there is just a difference between Norwegian and so-called other culture that is the goal. I think it's an expression of a lack of understanding of how culture is created and developed, and that's the wrong starting point for the importance and function of culture. Therefore, I would strongly warn against such a cultural perception. Different cultural expressions are evaluated from, and put into, different contexts. It means that what is the best cultural expressions and works is not an objective truth, but it depends entirely on the assessments of the individual and on the kind of context in which they are evaluated. Therefore, it is not desirable to demarcate or categorize different cultural expressions through such a cultural canon as the proposers have proposed. The range of arm's length is important in Norwegian cultural policy. Cultural expressions should not be governed politically; there should be a distinction between politics and the cultural institutions that receive public support. When, in the foundation of a cultural canon, it is pointed out that this canon is to be used and prioritised by schools, cultural institutions or public broadcasters, it breaks with the arm's length principle, which we are concerned with defending. We have a couple of days ago in the budget for next year agreed on the framework for the greatest cultural effort ever. We see that this creates creativity, participation, exciting expressions in all parts of cultural life. An active cultural policy that sees the value of culture for all of us is important to all of us – for our identity, our sense of community. But also for our ability to include, for our openness and understanding. It is commendable that the Progress Party will create a cultural debate – it is always a good thing. What I think most creates this debate on the part of the Progress Party is, however, not the cultural canon, but the rage proposed by the party in its budget year after year. It would have dramatic consequences for cultural life in Norway, for the lack, for the participation, for our cultural heritage. We will take care of and not least develop Norwegian cultural heritage through a cultural policy that creates participation, inclusion, involvement. That's what the government does in the budget, and that's what the government does when one follows the cultural promise. We are proud of, and with good reason, Ibsen, Ensset, Munch, Grieg and many other great artists and cultural actors that we have seen and heard up through the ages. They are today, as in our day, important to our cultural experiences, and important to our identity. Our task as politicians is to make sure and facilitate that it can be new, become more, like these for years to come. Unfortunately, with the Progress Party's cultural policy, there will be fewer, not more. It will be narrower, not wider, it will be smaller, not more and more. Therefore, cultural canon is a derailment of the cultural debate; it is a derailment of cultural policy. If the Progress Party wants a cultural debate, they are doing well today with the lack of cultural policy they are conducting. A more exciting debate would be given if the party took its cultural and cultural significance more seriously. There is a joint committee, with the exception of the Progress Party’s representatives, in favour of rejecting the proposal for a Norwegian cultural canon.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e351	It was a bit of a force-salve that the rapporteur addressed to the Progress Party. It is not allowed to be suspended in the air. Although there is disagreement with cultural canon, I find it unfortunate that a rapporteur makes such claims, especially when it is the Progress Party that has created cultural debate in Norway in the last five years. Our intention with a cultural canon is to take care of our common cultural heritage. It's an inheritance that we have to manage in a proper way, like the UNESCO World Heritage Site. It's not worse than that. I guess there's hardly any party in this room that doesn't agree with us supporting the world heritage list. But none other than the Progress Party therefore considers it important to take care of the Norwegian cultural heritage. Can it not be seen that this can contribute to the flattening and dilution of Norwegian culture? But I guess there's nothing else to wait for when all of the other parties say in a joint remark: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, will further warn against creating artificial distinctions between so-called Norwegian culture and other culture.’ We also heard it from the rapporteur on the matter. The members of the Culture Committee, all with the exception of the Advancement Party, will warn against a distinction between so-called Norwegian culture and other culture. It's not nice I'm worried. Here, in particular, you have to watch and take care of and donate money to folk dance, folk music, crafts and museums. But to call it Norwegian culture we should be warned against. You might wonder if it has something to do with the fact that the elite is less important. They already make curriculum vitae at universities about the books that are most important in Norwegian literature. We'll find this again within several other genres. Is it going to be the arm's length distance, which the majority of the committee is talking about in several of its comments, because you're presenting such a cannon? Is it stupid when people can have the opportunity to say what they like best in Norwegian culture? Is it no longer politically correct to recognise that we have a Norwegian culture and a Norwegian cultural heritage? Is it wrong to create a canon when both the Committee and the Council of State, in the context of the budget and elsewhere, indicate that it is okay that Ibsen, Grieg and Munch are very important for Norwegian culture? We've already been canonizing a number of our leading artists over time. What are they really afraid of? I've been assigned a lot of different motives to promote a cultural canon. They're all wrong. What we are saying in our proposal is that we want to take care of the cultural heritage, and we want the debate. But what's the rest of the Storting afraid of? Are they afraid of the debate? Are they afraid of public engagement? Are they afraid that someone will be excluded? We also hear the case rapporteur say that some people are excluded. It's not meant to exclude, it's meant to be knowledge. For the Progress Party, there is no contradiction between diversity, neither today's nor tomorrow's, and a cultural canon. This would be a cultural promise, but such a promise unfortunately does not want the other parties to join. One of the other intentions of a cultural canon is just the debate, that people get engaged, excited, angry – what do I know? But the cultural debate has been absent for a long time, especially among most people, and this is what the Progress Party wants to do. I want to come back a little bit to the principle of arm's length distance, to which both the majority of the committee and the Council of State refer in their letter. Now what's the arm's length distance? Is it when the Government and the position on the Stortinget grant money for very local measures, precisely because the government council or members of the government parties know the measures better than others? The arm length distance is a very subjective concept and is completely dependent on the length of the arm. It is not to be overlooked that the Progress Party considers the conclusion of the majority of the Committee as something that was looking very hard. I think about the expression: if you don't know your past, you can't create a future either. The parallel here is: if we don't know our cultural heritage, we can't create and develop the culture of the future either. With this, I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e378	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e381	The representative Karin S. Woldseth wondered what we were afraid of in the other parties. I really don't think we're afraid of that much. At least there's no right-wing fear of a cultural canon, or what that debate would give. So we can agree that it would be nice to have such a discussion. The question is just, how would such a discussion occur? What will it lead to? And what is the value of what it leads up to? It's probably primarily where the starting point for our conclusion is. In Denmark, which was probably first out — at least early — with such a project, a violent discussion was held. But it was not primarily about which works were most Danish or not Danish, or which works were the central ones. It was about what would certainly come here too, whether it is possible to weigh and measure works of art, and what parameters you should do in that case. It is clear that national membership is one approach, another approach is a professional assessment of quality. So there's multiple angles of incidence here. But imagining that such a discussion would lead to some sort of clarification of what was Norwegian, I think it's having too much expectations. In fact, most of the central works or directions of culture, if so, for example. is the culture of the people we're talking about is the result of how cultural impressions and impulses from other countries have also come to our country and been processed in relation to what has been our starting point. What is the genuine content of what is created here in the country, in relation to the ideas that have come from outside, no one will ever be able to see. There will be a question about the eyes that see. Some of the problem with such a cannon is that you think you're going to get to a given number of works. I think you're talking about 10 or 15 -- it's not so dangerous how many there are, but a given number of works -- that's going to be central to the nation. In Denmark, it was sweet. There you had a lot of commissions within every only start, and then you were going to pick out these works. In that there is a little bit frozen. What is the value of getting such a list? You can't, like, freeze the perception of what's most important at one point, how long it should last, and what consequences it would have. The only context in which I could see that it could be of value – where I would actually like to think a little bit more about the idea – had to be related to schoolwork and the curriculum. There you might imagine that you could also have events outside the school that could think a little bit more about what you should go through. But also there it gets kind of tight, the shirt clip gets a little in the tightest shape compared to the flexibility and open approach that a well dynamic cultural life should be about. I don't know which expression to use, but I think, with all due respect, that the discussion on whether this is a question of Norwegian culture or not Norwegian culture is a little sought after. That, for example: a cultural canon should be a problem for the approach to diversity, I cannot join. I don't feel that way. I think it's putting it on the top. But I find it difficult to see that the debate that will come will bring something particularly new to the debate we have. I can't see that, after such a debate, the cultural heritage would be significantly better preserved. I believe that the result you get if you come up with something, in any case, would be so controversial and so little important that we would hardly use it for anything. It is probably also the experience of those countries that have tried this. Then I see little intention in using public funds to initiate such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e396	The reasons given by the Party for proposing a cultural canon are that Norwegian culture is currently under pressure and that this canon may be a tool for safeguarding the national cultural heritage. SV has no experience of Norwegian culture being under strong pressure. We want to raise the opposite. Never has culture been given such an economic boost as now, through this government, and we are experiencing a cultural leap across our long-term country. It grows and grows, and increasing cultural diversity contributes to the further development of our cultural heritage and our traditions. Cultural policy must facilitate cultural life to be influenced by cultural diversity, which is increasing in Norway, but what the Progress Party might add here is a restrictive and exclusive cultural policy. I would also challenge the representative Woldseth to elaborate a little more on what she says about it being the Progress Party that has put culture on the agenda for the last five years and started the cultural debate in Norway. The government has recently submitted St.meld. No 17 for 2005-2006, 2008 as the year for the identification of cultural diversity. The labelling shall be part of an overall strategy development to promote cultural diversity in the cultural sector. Norway has also joined a democratic cultural policy with a view to promoting national and international cultural diversity through international declarations, such as the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity and the Council of Europe Declaration on Cultural Diversity. I agree that we have a responsibility to take care of Norwegian traditions and expressions, while striving for diversity and transparency in cultural life in Norway. SV wants a cultural policy that reflects all parts of our society and our citizens. The connection to the cultural heritage strengthens our identity and our sense of community. Our common cultural reference base as a nation is of fundamental importance to our identity as individuals and as people – therefore cultural diversity is so important. With regard to the intention of the Progress Party to focus on the best works over time, SV believes it is completely impossible. What is the cultural context in which it is to be put, and who is to assess it? I personally have a very clear view of what's best for me, and what I think is big. I don't want others to define it or pick out the best works over time for me. What is recognised, best and most representative, most people have a completely different view. But what I think is perhaps the most serious thing about the Progress Party's proposal is that someone should pick out for us what's most important about our cultural heritage, and then this should be an important foundation for the further cultural development in Norway. This is going across any other development in our society. I think it's preservation, it means exclusion, and it deprives me, as an individual, of the right to define for myself what's most important to me, what's the best cultural heritage for me, and what cultural policy I as a politician want for the future. We live in a multicultural Norway, where new cultures and artistic expressions characterize us. This is valuable, it enriches us, and it changes us, and it changes our culture. This diversity develops us as a nation and an individual. SV is pleased that we now have a government that sees the importance of this, and not least that we have a government that has a plan to escalate the appropriations within the cultural area to 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. This is the main contribution to strengthening diversity and Norwegian culture. I must be allowed to say finally: Hurrah for the cultural promise!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e418	I have to admit that when I first read the proposal of the Advance Party to get a Norwegian cultural cannon, I was putting the coffee in the wreath. That was when a touching commitment from the Progress Party, I thought, when it came to taking care of the cultural heritage – not what we are most used to hearing from the party that otherwise proposes large cuts on the cultural budget every year. Here there must be something below, I also thought. And quite correctly, it said that it's about ‘determining what are the most important cornerstones of the Norwegian cultural heritage’, that is, what are the best works over time. And further, the proposal states: ‘The debate will give people a better understanding of what is Norwegian culture and of the border between Norwegian and foreign culture.’ Aha! I, with my background, am used to associating the word ‘canon’ with a book that has been collected once and for all, the Bible — that is, a sacred book. And in conjunction with the desire to preserve it as a collection for the future, this was completely wrong. I immediately saw a "red list" for endangered species of art, or the nobility calendar of a kind of Norwegian culture. When I read to the top that this cannon was intended to be used as a starting point for communication in school, then it ran all the way over. I immediately associated with a journey with the then cultural committee to Cuba, during the previous great-greater period. Over there we visited, among other things. a nursery, where I used the opportunity to look in a bookshelf standing in a room. After a quick overview of the selection in the shelf, I found to my surprise that all the books in the shelf were works either by Marx, Engels, headsideologist José Martin or by the head of the sea, Fidel Castro – in a kindergarten! It was clear that we cannot support the proposal of the Progress Party. It gave, as you can see, creepy associations. How wrong can it go? One thing is to have the Advance Party, they intensified despite this my curiosity. I knew that the Progress Party had got the idea from Denmark. At these times you can't quite know what to think about it either. But I went into the Internet, "google" on the word "culture canon," and there I found a lot of stuff about the Danish version of the cultural canon. And what I found wasn't that bad at all. On the contrary, there was a lot that made me really interested. As the representative Olemic Thommess explained, there has been a discussion in Denmark about this. Of course, this is not unproblematic about setting limits. Given the Danish: I immediately realized that there had to be something here that had not been able to cross Skagerrak. I have to admit, however, that so much I have not been involved in the Danish version that I am immediately able to say that I would have gone for it. So much, I understand, that done in the right way, this might be something very valuable: an opportunity to talk about what art and culture really are about, an opportunity to engage and get people interested. Culture is something that is being created on a continuous basis. The term canon gives completely wrong association, to something that has ended. This is not what Denmark thinks. There, this cannon is to be developed continuously. To substantiate this, I would like to quote from the introduction to the Danish canon for stage art, where it says: «We do not imagine that the canon of stage art that we present here will last the century. On the contrary. The theatre life challenges us constantly, interprets and lives our cultural heritage and publishes a dynamic stage art cannon every season when the repertoire is planned and the tickets are sold." Today we feel stronger than before that art and culture are to a large extent something universal. Art is a language that is suitable for crossing borders. Therefore, culture cannot be put in a national handcuff. Denmark has given room for foreign artists in its cultural canon, with Denmark’s membership. This goes for example: from the opening of the Danish architect’s canon, which is: «We have defined «Danish architecture» as: building works in Denmark designed by Danish or foreign architects, and/or buildings abroad drawn by Danish architects.» In contrast to the Danes, the party has stressed that there should be a ‘wide, strong and popular commitment to the selection of works’. It sounds a little bit intrusive, but at the same time it's very demanding. How would that be done? Where was the decision to be made? In Denmark, seven canon selections were selected, each of five professional artists and professionals, all in the field of culture. This also did not conflict with the principle of arm’s length, which is of course important. Finally, I think it is great that the Progress Party takes care of the cultural heritage. Thank you for putting us on the idea. I think we're going to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e453	It is true that when the proposal for a cultural cannon came, some people wanted it to be a very limited version of the cultural boat that, among other things, was. The centre party has been a hot champion for, but it's about something else, it's about a list of our leading artworks. The party's proposal for a cultural canon may initially seem like a good idea. Lifting up parts of our cultural heritage and putting it into the nearest canonized list would show the great value we're adding to Norwegian art and culture. But with more thought, the doubt comes to light. We in the Center Party are busy with the value of art and culture, but we're very much in doubt if there's a cultural cannon that's the best way to keep this. For some important questions, how should the list be set up? What should be the criteria? How peculiar should a work of art be to be on this list, is it forever or for a limited period? Is it true that a work of art could be left on the list? And what is the reason why that should happen? The centre party is concerned that instead of promoting art, such a list could act as a home for art. It will be a ranking of art that forgets to take care that the experience of art is individual. It could be a cementation of the art that doesn't take heights to create new works of art every single day, perhaps for some reason the most beautiful work of art they've ever experienced, while for the vast majority it's seen as scrap – or vice versa. And maybe it'll be looked at with completely different eyes in 50 years, and maybe with new eyes again 20 years after that. For art itself is innovative and often provocative. Art and art forms are still changing. A lot of the good art has never been created during the motivation to enter a ten on the top-list. It has our innovative and often focused negative outlook in the present. In fact, there is no shortage of artists that we have seen today on a pedestal, which passed through life in poverty, and which were guilty of being degenerative and norm-dissolved. Thus many works of art would appear on the list today, but have been voted down in their time, precisely because the art affects us and develops us. And what about that geographical aspect? Artists who are well-known and respected in one part of the country are unknown in another. Not all communities with great artists have enough people to vote for them, if there are people who are going to vote artists and works of art on a cultural cannon list. Is it possible at all to create such a list in Norway that everyone knows where to go? Instead of making a top list of the most important works of art through history, we in the Center Party are busy cultivating the diversity before the art. Art must be given the most freedom and the most important role it has, in terms of being innovative and evolving. Therefore, through the Cultural Promise, we have helped to strengthen the whole breadth of art and culture. And we'll keep doing that. We believe that in the Center Party is the most important thing we can do to secure our important cultural heritage. I am therefore voting in favour of May Hansen: Hurra for Kulturlöftet!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e470	The left agrees with the proposers that the Norwegian cultural heritage represents great values and participates in giving nation and building up identity and community feeling. It is important to focus on caring for and disseminating our cultural heritage. As others have said before me, belonging to the cultural heritage strengthens our identity as individuals, our common cultural reference base as a nation, and is fundamental to our identity as people. Like the proposers, the Left is also in order to create lists of works of art. The left is at all to discuss and rank art and culture, whether it's paintings, books or music. But such lists – by the way, here I have the Danish cultural canon – rankings and discussions should take place on the cultural pages of the newspapers rather than as a result of a political decision. Art and culture should be free, and it seems an impossible task to express anything on a general, objective basis about what are the best cultural works and expressions. And that's not desirable either. How is that going to happen, and not least who is going to judge what is ‘true’ and worthy of a place in a cultural canon? What are we going to do with a kind of national "rating" over the Urnorsian? It should be borne in mind that one of our greatest plays about the Norwegian people's soul, namely "Peer Gynt" by Henrik Ibsen, was actually written in Italy. Yeah, maybe it's easiest to see the Norwegian from the outside, when you get things a little bit away? A cultural canon could reinforce the distinction between Norwegian and other cultures. That's not how we create cultural diversity. A cultural canon can lead to further cultural unification, and that is how the proposal of the Progress Party reminds us of more totalitarian states. For the Left, it is clear that the most exciting cultural expressions are created in the meeting between cultures. Let me give you a good example of how to take care of Norwegian cultural heritage and at the same time build bridges to cultural diversity. A few years ago, Gamlebyen created a school, a school in the inner Oslo east, with about. 80 pst. students with a foreign cultural background, a Norwegian children’s song CD. Children's songs are an important part of our cultural heritage, and they give the key to understanding a lot of our culture, many of them even being used for television advertising. This CD actually received a gamer's prize, and it is a good example of how to build a bridge between the cultural diversity of Norway today and our own cultural heritage. Good teachers do this every day, albeit on a smaller scale. I remember with pleasure my Norwegian teacher in high school, who was so fascinated by Henrik Wergeland, and he was able to convey this to the whole class's joy. And speaking of Henrik Ibsen: In elementary school in China, our great author is the curriculum. Chinese children thus become familiar with Norwegian literature — another meeting between cultures. Therefore, if we are to facilitate the preservation of Norwegian cultural heritage and contribute to cultural diversity in Norway, it is obvious that a cultural canon is not the way to go. For the Left, it is obvious that the public rather must facilitate a rich and vibrant cultural life characterised by diversity. Then you can make lists and rankings in the newspapers, but this is not a public problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e492	It is important and necessary that there is a continuous debate on the cultural life of public spaces, among the many actors in cultural life and among the public. Ranking of literature, films, music, etc., discussions about what is quality, or what constitutes Norwegian culture, all of this belongs to a society that takes the cultural dimension seriously. Yes, the very discussion about what is Norwegian, and who is Norwegian, has been going on lively in different media over the past few weeks. Critics, reports and references to art and culture are also an important part of that debate. Our main task as cultural politicians is through good and predictable framework conditions to facilitate a varied cultural life with a diversity of cultural expressions. Targeted and systematic work on the preservation of cultural heritage will be stimulated, while emphasis will be placed on stimulating a wide variety of cultural expressions. Knowledge and understanding of the relationship between cultural heritage and innovation, between tradition and new impulses must be created. It forms the very basis for a vibrant and varied cultural life. Of course, a special and important task for us is to take care of the Norwegian cultural heritage, our traditions, our expressions. We have to discuss what are the most important works of art. So let's do that, for example. in the preparation of curricula. Now the former Minister of Education wanted you to be less specific and less specific about what students should learn. But here one always has a choice to make, among education policy authorities and also among teachers themselves. What to learn from our literature history, for example.? These discussions are going on all the time, including in the media. This summer we could, for example, Read the Newspaper's ranking of the most important books in recent Norwegian literature history, and in these weeks and months lists of this year's album, the films of the year, etc. All this is, in my view, just of the good. It is positive because it provides a basis for debate. There are no authoritative answers to these discussions, but there is a platform for opinion. The question is whether such lists should be drawn up by the State and how they should contribute to them. I don't deny that we can somehow or at some point take the initiative to have an enhanced discussion about the Norwegian cultural heritage. But I'm very uncertain as to what kind of role the state would play in that case. I think that the proposal from the Progress Party, and also what they have said earlier, among other things. in the context of the discussion on the cultural message, it appears to be based on a misunderstanding that there is a contradiction between taking care of Norwegian cultural heritage and at the same time facilitating new impulses and the further development of cultural expressions. Cultural heritage is no exact, static and immutable size. In particular, each generation will redefine, or redefine, the cultural expression to be passed on under the label ‘Cultural Heritage’. Although the forms may be stable, meaning and content may change over time and new expressions may arise. Just think about how performers of Norwegian folk music take the musical expressions into new contexts and create completely new musical expressions. Even what we consider today to be rotted Norwegian cultural expressions, such as: rose painting, woodcut traditions, banners and folk adventures have their origins far from Norway, or have at least been strongly influenced by outside impulses. We have, through history, made these expressions ours, so that they now form elements of our common cultural heritage. In the years to come, resources and action must be used to bring about cultural diversity in Norway, such as: The 2008 Manifest Year will contribute to this. It is part of the Government's strategy to promote cultural diversity in the cultural sector and make us aware of the importance of the multicultural dimension of Norwegian culture. In addition, the year will help to increase our opportunities to experience a diversity of cultural expressions. In the follow-up to the Year of Manhood, we have a responsibility to take care of the Norwegian traditions and expressions, while striving for diversity and openness in cultural life in Norway. The majority of the Committee has understood this and rightly rejected the proposal to initiate the work of a Norwegian cultural canon as set out in the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e512	State councils are asking if it's the task of the state to create a cannon. I think it is the task of the state to secure the Norwegian cultural heritage for the future, and then there must also be one element. Now we haven't worked very hard on how this cannon is to be executed and developed. That is why it is really open to the government at all times how this job is to be done. But I have a question for the Council of State: does the Council of State support what the parties of government say together with the Right and the Christian People's Party in the vote, where they call the Norwegian culture a 'Norwegian culture'?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e519	There is a very big discussion going on about what is Norwegian, what it means to be a Norwegian. Everything we do, and everything we take care of in Norway, through the generations and centuries, has been influenced by outside impressions. It's e.g. There is no doubt that we have a Norwegian language. It is not a so-called Norwegian language, it is a Norwegian language. It's also constantly developing. We're going to get loan terms, we're going to change the meaning of the content of words, and we're going to use it in new ways. We have a cultural heritage that we consider Norwegian. I'm not going to interpret the meaning of the big crowd's words, but I would have added that it might be an expression that what is Norwegian is not a constant size, but is constantly changing, and that very much of the Norwegian is also a result of external influence. When it comes to taking care of the cultural heritage, I fully agree with the Advance Party in it. But there I would say that the most important thing to do is to provide abundant resources for cultural life and for all those who care for the Norwegian cultural heritage. It should also be expressed in a better way in the budget of the Progress Party, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e528	I would like to stop by the question: what is the responsibility of the state in the field of cultural policy? It seems a bit interesting and in a way also a little strange, that a government council from the Workers' Party should be the one to question whether the state has a responsibility to strengthen the debate on the Norwegian cultural heritage, as opposed to the Progress Party in this matter here. Now the state has entered into other areas of this, not least in terms of the preservation of cultural memories — from another department correctly. We have also taken care of the film heritage within the Ministry of Culture, we have purchasing arrangements for literature, phonograms and music. My question won't be the same, like, for example. ABM, could be about to blow a little life in this cultural heritage debate, if we couldn't get a proposal that goes on this – if not exactly as the Progress Party suggests, then with Denmark as a source, as it has become in Denmark. I don't think it's so wrong to focus a little bit on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e535	First of all, we do a lot to take care of the Norwegian cultural heritage, among other things. with a historical increase to Norwegian museums in the State budget for 2007. The National Library is provided with stronger resources, including: ensuring the digitisation of the Norwegian cultural heritage, so that it is made available. We also have a lot of institutions that collect and take care to develop everything that is made of art and culture, and not least convey it to new generations. That's the most important thing. So I can join those who said "Hurry for the Cultural Promise," because that's the basis for all of it. But then I fully agree with the representative Lånke that the task of the state, or our task as politicians, to put it that way, is also to facilitate a good debate on culture and cultural policy. These include: therefore we have arranged that it is now also a grant scheme for critics, which it was not before. I am open to see if the state can contribute to an enhanced discussion about this, and learn from Danish experiences. It probably got better results in Denmark than the worst critics had feared. But there are also objections to things that have happened there. We can certainly learn from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e544	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e549	First I have to say that I have asked myself the question about the Christian People's Party, for example. has read our proposal. It says: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate work on a widely-rooted Norwegian cultural canon.’ That doesn't mean we have any recipe for this. This has been very conscious. We've come up with some suggestions on what it can contain from themes, that's all. Otherwise, we've kept our hands far away. It will be quite natural to look to Denmark, look to the Netherlands, look at what Sweden is doing. All of these have a canon debate going on. So that's no problem. I believe that the representative Lånke has misunderstood, if he thinks that we are making a complete recipe for how this should be done. We don't. Another thing that is an obvious misunderstanding is that this cultural canon is a one-time phenomenon, and that it should not be rolled at regular intervals. It's clearly a manifest misunderstanding. Of course it must! Of course, we are fully aware that there are new works of art, that time is running out, and that different governments have different opinions and may think it is time to do so. I don't want to be involved in making the recipe either. But it should be popularly anchored. It wasn't in Denmark. It is in the Netherlands, on the other hand. You can also look there to see how you have managed to engage the population of the Netherlands, including the United Kingdom. by networks and other things. ‘Restrictive and exclusive’, says the representative of Hansen on this proposal. Everyone who's been up here by the other parties has said that a cultural canon is a contrast to diversity. So it's not. It's a supplement, a supplement, it's a knowledge of what we have behind us -- the Norwegian cultural heritage. It gets a little bit special when the Left in terms of our cannon, compares to totalitarian societies. Now it is probably the case that the Left in Denmark has presented this cannon in Denmark, and then it is said that the Left in Denmark is relatively totalitarian. I thought it was a sister party to the Left in Norway. The cultural debate was also asked me to give examples from. So we have changed the key – in collaboration with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, but that was our private proposal. We've got a majority for renting art from the museums. We have proposed termination of the book business agreement. We've done this. So we've been involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e569	It is clear that the Progress Party in the last period helped to promote good proposals in the field of culture. We were together on several proposals. But that was not what the representative initially said. The representative initially said that it was the Progress Party that had gone on its way and promoted cultural policy and the debate on cultural policy in the last five years in the Stortinget. That's what I wanted her to say something more about. The representative has now done so. What I think is the most serious thing about this proposal – and now I am going to refer straight from the proposal, it is also a response to the representative, Olemic Thommess, in fact it says here that you want a debate – is: ‘The debate will highlight what Norwegian culture is and what it means to be Norwegian. The debate will give people a better understanding of what is Norwegian culture and of the border between Norwegian and foreign culture.’ That is what this proposal is all about. That is why the debate by SV has received the content it received. We believe that this is quite daunting, and are therefore totally opposed to this proposal. I lighted most of my previous post, but this is actually in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e581	I take the floor because the representative Woldseth believes that the Christian People's Party cannot have read the proposals of the Progress Party. Of course we have. What is precisely the problem is that, as the Progress Party makes this case, the proposal for a cultural canon, there are too many difficult points. It might have been the one sentence I quoted in my previous post that put us on track, which is where it says: ‘The debate will give people a better understanding of what is Norwegian culture and of the border between Norwegian and foreign culture.’ I think in today's society, where we have such a significant feature of foreign cultural activity, which is very valuable, it will give completely wrong signals to use such formulations as this and imagine a fixed canon based on what has traditionally been the Norwegian cultural heritage. Now, the representative Karin Woldseth says this shouldn't be over, it shouldn't be exclusive, etc, and at the same time you have to highlight the popular anchoring. All of this sounds very good and good. It is possible that during this debate the ideas about this have changed somewhat, but as it appears as a whole in the proposals of the Progress Party, it became quite inedible. I have tried in the debate to also recommend to the Council of State through questions that perhaps we should look at the Danish proposal. Of course, it's a priority question whether to go to that step. Now you have been able to allocate quite a lot of money to culture, so it may be that the situation is also better in the Government in terms of the investment in culture than it has been in the past – if we are to believe the Council of State guess. Nevertheless, there will always be questions about it. And as has also been pointed out by several, we've already collected a lot of this. But what I think everyone should agree on is that it is important to take care of the cultural heritage, document it, continue it and facilitate dissemination across the population, especially with regard to children and young people. We also have the cultural school bag to contribute to this. Then you get to continue the discussion if you're going to do more. What I want is a debate about what culture is, and how we can make the people more concerned about using the cultural offerings that are. We see that it might not be everyone who has the same interest in it. I think that the fact that we are betting on children and young people will help in the future to get a new view of the value of both the cultural heritage and the new creative culture, which, of course, is not the opposite of taking care of what has been. We live in a way at a time when we both look back and forward. We look back and learn from history because we're going to be able to meet the future in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e599	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 812]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e615	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e624	On Tuesday, there was a financial debate. There were in particular two issues that got stuck, first of all, that the total environmental funding from the Government increased by almost NOK 3 billion. It can be done, among other things: for CO2 clean-up, environmentally friendly gas technologies and environmental aid. Today's case concerns environmental and energy, measures for alternative energy sources in the household. In the State budget, the government has proposed DKK 10 billion in the contribution capital of an energy fund. Additional DKK 10 billion will be proposed for 2009. The return from this fund will then be 880 million. kr. This is a significant strengthening of the commitment to renewable energy and an environmentally friendly energy conversion. The proposals contribute significantly to strengthening security of energy supply in Norway and are an important contribution to achieving the Government’s overall objective of a more environmentally friendly and varied energy system. Through strong investment in hydropower and the expansion of a nationwide transmission system, electricity has become the carrier of the Norwegian energy supply. The share of households currently using electricity for main heating is 69 pst. At the same time, it is clear that it is an objective to stimulate a more environmentally friendly and varied energy system in this country. Many households are concerned with assessing alternative energy sources that may limit their dependence on electricity. Therefore, the Government introduces measures to help households make good and conscious energy choices. So we are pleased that the Government in this regard is proposing a subsidy scheme for pellet stoves, heat pumps in water-borne heating systems and management systems. Such a scheme may help to reduce the use of electricity for domestic heating. Let me add: it made sense that the scheme was launched in advance of the firing season, and that extra funds have been proposed over the current year's budget. The technology of the schemes has been chosen to help to make immature technologies that are not widespread today more accessible to households. It is also reasonable that an information campaign will follow with this scheme. That was the first thing I noticed in the financial debate, a strong commitment to the environment and energy conversion from the Government. The second thing I noticed in the financial debate was that the Progress Party cut the environmental budget by over 360 million. kr. At the same time, the Progress Party has been able to call the Government’s proposal on energy conversion in households ‘puzzle’. It will be tempting to rewrite a poem by Inger Hagerup: Puslete? This? Far from it. Just big enough. Fills the sheet all the way along and across from top to bottom. Because you have to ask yourself, the puzzles relative to what? The purpose of this scheme is not to resolve the power situation in Middle Norway, which some seem to believe occurred during the government change. It is not supporting technologies that already have a good foothold in the market, but it is a mechanism to phase in other alternatives. That's why the delimitation is done as it is. This, of course, does not preclude Storting from returning to other options and solutions later on. It is known that the SFT has been commissioned to look at clean wood stoves in relation to the emissions of particulate matter and that their report is now available. The force situation is continuously working with the Government. Once the delimitation has been made, it is good to see that the reality of the proposal in this landfill proposal is bringing together broad support. It shows a common understanding and a broad commitment by many to the importance of energy conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e651	The government's proposal for measures to limit the use of electricity in households is puzzled and unfortunately small, very small, in the broadest sense. However, the Progress Party will not deny that it makes sense to invest in a gradual energy conversion in Norwegian households. For these reasons, the Progress Party promotes proposals in this matter which are much more ambitious and comprehensive than the Government's puzzled proposals. The Progress Party believes that the proposal needs to be made more technology-neutral, and therefore also wants to implement clean wood-burning and air-to-air heat pumps in such a support scheme and to introduce half-VAT on all installations serving as heating sources in Norwegian households. An energy conversion makes sense because electricity has become a scarce resource in Norway, while in Norway we have a significant untapped potential for increasing the use of alternative energy sources, such as: biofuels. The purely statistical fact shows that the entire 70 pst. electric heating is currently used by Norwegian households as main sources of heat. Norway is today the world’s most widely used nation per year. built-in for heating purposes in private dwellings. At the same time, it is important to stress that in Norway we are not energy wasters, because the total energy consumption in Norwegian households is not significantly higher than in other countries with which it is natural to compare. However, the use of electrical energy is nevertheless high in Norway. About half of the total final energy consumption in our country is electrical energy based on hydropower. In 2005, the total net domestic end-use of energy in Norway was 223 TWh, with electricity accounting for 112 TWh. Electrical energy covered in 2005 approx. 50 pst. of all energy end-use in Norway. These figures show that the consumption of electricity in Norwegian households has not increased in the last 10 years, but on the contrary has been reduced by nearly 1 TWh compared to the consumption in 1995, i.e. ten years ago. In a normal year, Norwegian households use around 20 TWh for residential heating — approximately equivalent. 16 pst. of the total power consumption. In addition, domestic water heating is provided. In 2004, around 41 pst went. of household electricity consumption for residential heating, and around 24 pst. included for water heating. So the total went about 65 pst. of the electricity consumption of Norwegian households for heating purposes. These figures clearly demonstrate that the potential for increased use of alternative sources of heating for electricity in Norwegian households is partly very high. For these reasons, the realistic objective is to reduce electricity consumption while at the same time facilitating lower heating costs for Norwegian households in the case of alternative energy consumption. Today, there is a lot of good and reasonable alternative heating technology available to Norwegian households. New, modern stoves, heat pumps and, for that matter, pellet stoves and other energy-efficient and economically good solutions to bet on for Norwegian households are therefore available. Politically, it is widely agreed that it is important to create a more versatile and robust energy supply in Norway, based on energy sources other than hydropower. The gradual conversion of energy consumption in Norway, from electricity to alternative and environmentally friendly energy consumption, should not, in the view of the Progress Party, be limited to the use of only pellet kilns and highly expensive heat pump systems. The Progress Party wants to play an offensive role in energy efficiency and the gradual conversion of energy use in Norway. We can't see that the government's proposal goes far enough, as it is today. I would like to raise the proposal from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 1 and proposal No 2, from the Progress Party, to enter for half of VAT on all installations that act as alternative sources of heating in Norwegian households.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e674	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e677	This is a typical case that sees the light of the day when the media attention for seriousness is focused on the scarcity of the energy market. Subscribers are told that the price level reaches new highs, while noting that very little is happening from today’s government, government, which can give subscribers, electricity consumers and Norwegian industry the hope of having greater stability and a more normal price picture in view in the future. The right is, of course, just as much as everyone else, concerned about generating new renewable energy for use, energy conversion in households, etc. We do not go against this matter, but you must not, with all respect for those who sit and look at the giro from the local electricity supplier or from others, describe this as a matter that solves any problem. Here, the government must be at least as creative and put in place action plans, solutions for creating a better balance, with self-sufficiency and increased production, which can provide an opportunity for a longer-term development in terms of both the price picture and the supply situation as such. To a lesser extent, I feel that this is about this energy fund to which the majority refers in the vote, and so was the case rapporteur. We're just getting a little bit later today to see that when it comes to dealing with the big tasks, with measures that can really get people to lower their shoulders in the thousands of homes, the government doesn't intend to get on the road with suggestions. So this is going to be a little bit smaller, it's going to be 46 million. kr plus an information program. People can send applications to Trondheim, to Enova. Preferably, they can send such applications with a relatively good balance in their own favour. This has no smoothing effect, and this does not affect those who are struggling to deal with today's current bill at all. The right cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party, because this does not have a smoothing effect; it does not have an accurate assurance. We need to be as active as everyone else, including the Advance Party, in order to produce new forms of energy. However, solutions other than reduced taxes and charges need to be found to stimulate demand, and a proposal must at least have the effect that it can have a certain levelling effect. We support the vote, and we are also involved in the motion tabled by Mr Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e688	The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will introduce a support scheme for households that will implement energy conversion. This aid scheme is to follow up the Soria Moria declaration, which was written a year and a half ago. It's not a panic response. It's a long-term, good policy, and it's a strategically important tool because one of the main challenges in Norway is, as the Progress Party has today very affordablely explained, that we're using a lot of electricity for heating compared to other countries we can compare with, and that it'll be more energy efficient and more environmentally friendly if we manage to get an energy conversion that makes us use more bioenergy, heat pumps and district heating for heating. Helping households on the way in this is a strategic good measure, and something we already announced when we wrote the Soria Moria statement for the current period. Electricity for heating is, as described by American energy expert Amery Lovins, like cutting butter with a motor case. A user too much power to do one too simple task. In Norway, we have been blessed with a lot of hydropower, and there are many historical reasons why we have ended up in the situation we are today. But our hydropower resources are not inexhaustible, and it is also established – from many governments – that the time of large hydropower expansion is over. That's why we need to think anew about energy conversion in Norway, and then it's important that we help those households that have been told over many years that it was fun just to install a panel oven, and then one was done with it. Help them find new and better alternatives! I am pleased, after hearing the first speeches today, that there is broad support just to achieve such an energy conversion – that the Advance Party is also involved in it today, I think it is nice – and that it is also said that we should have a more versatile and more robust energy system than we have had in the past. This aid scheme has been received by consumers as a success. There are a lot of people who have searched, and we are very happy about that. It is also the case that very many people will receive support. We see that there is a great demand for both water-to-air heat pumps and pellet stoves. We also see that there has been a waiting time to get hold of e.g. Pellet skins. It shows that there is an interest in doing something with your own heating outside among the Norwegian people. SV cannot support the proposal of the Progress Party on half VAT today, nor do we support the proposal of the minority to include wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps. I think it's wise that we don't include the mature technologies that sell it well in the Norwegian market, in this aid scheme, which is just supposed to introduce new things into the market. Let me also say that I have registered that when we dealt with the budget on Tuesday, there was no proposal from the opposition parties to prioritize money either for half VAT or for wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps. So when you propose it today, at least it's a proposal you yourself haven't prioritised within the framework of the different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e703	For a long time, there has been a notified shortage of electricity in winter. Low magazine filling, problems with external transmission lines and stopping electricity production at Swedish nuclear power stations sent electricity prices to new altitudes earlier this autumn. The warnings came already last winter, and I asked our government council, Enoxen, what he would do to mitigate the electricity costs in private homes. In a situation where power is scarce, it makes sense to save people. Therefore, it was not too early that the government in September came up with measures to save electricity in the house and home. The government proposes measures similar to those proposed by the former State Council in Steensnæs in the winter of 2003 — measures partially criticised by current government parties. Yes, the current debate and the situation in the autumn are similar to the situation we had in the winter of 2003. At that time, unreasonably harsh words were used about the then State Council of Steensnæs’ policy. But with responsibility today, that time critics behave quite like Steensnæs and perhaps meet themselves a little in the door, and it calls for thought. In the Christian People's Party we support the measures proposed by the Government now, but we are surprised at the arrangement of the proposals. If the point is to use electricity more efficiently and to help convert energy use, then the Christian People's Party believes that the measures should also include support for clean-burning wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps. The Christian People's Party is therefore the proposer at this point. The Christian People's Party also believes that the grant scheme should have a longer time perspective than the firing season we are now in. The scheme should remain in force until 2010, with an in-flight evaluation. Such an expansion in time and content is necessary if we are to achieve a greater energy conversion in private homes. An extension of the scheme will also provide more than one economic opportunity to use it. The representative, Heidi Sørensen, was interested in that introductory statement. As for next year's budget, we have the opportunity to look at this in the revised version. The Christian People's Party is pleased that an information campaign on power savings is being launched. So far, the autumn has been mild, and with high prices, electricity consumption has fallen in November. That's why the worst horror scenarios we saw for ourselves have been eliminated. The grant scheme seems to be helping. It is necessary to spend more money than the Government initially provided, and the grants contribute to energy conversion and greater flexibility among end-users. This is good. My final call is to allow the grant scheme to last for a while, like to expand it, to get a better result. Nor can the Christian People's Party support the proposal of the Progress Party on half VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e718	I notice that there is a great deal of consensus about the reality itself in the room that we have an excessive electricity consumption for heating, and that most of the parties share the desire to turn it over to other energy sources to release electricity and thereby introduce new technologies on the heating side of Norwegian households. I'm glad. I am absolutely sure that it is essential that we succeed in precisely this distortion of energy consumption. It also provides an exciting perspective for the development of both sides of industry. First of all, we release power that we obviously need for things other than heating, not least in value creation and production. On the other hand, there is a violent perspective for economic development, value creation and jobs across the country in putting new technologies in place. That's not least what you saw not long ago when Elkem decided to invest almost NOK 3 billion in solar photovoltaic production in Kristiansand. But there is also more traditional use and the highest around the country. We have huge bio-resources, which we should have taken out and used to a much greater extent. It offers great opportunities for value creation and jobs throughout Norway. Those of us who occasionally travel a little outside this city have noticed that Norway is growing again as a result of less grazing and some other things. This may be an important measure to take more biomass and reduce, inter alia: such an effect. So it's said here that this arrangement monks little. It's a description of reality I'm not quite sure. First of all, it's been a success. There are more than 10,000 applications in there. That's a significant amount. Secondly, over time we will introduce new technologies, new ways of thinking, new ways of planning. It's not things that mate little. There are things that are going to be of great importance. If you don't trigger a lot of TWh in winter, I'm sure you'll have to choose this approach in the long run to succeed. I also want to say that this is the positive side of the Government's plan to put energy conversion and energy efficiency in the house. Nor should we forget that we use instruments in relation to requirements. The government's proposal for new building regulations is soon launched, where energy efficiency, requirements for water-borne heating systems and requirements for the construction of water-borne infrastructure around the country are given completely different framework conditions and completely different possibilities than today's situation. I agree with those who say that this should be a long-term arrangement. We, who represent the majority and the Government, should, at my discretion, now soon be clear that this is a commitment that we want to continue to include in the important work that Enova is going to continue. Ivar Kristiansen spent some time in his speech saying that this is ‘bad’ and that the government is not intending to address the major issues related to energy supply in Norway. Ivar Kristiansen now uses every opportunity to attack the Government's energy policy. That's all right, but I want to remind the House that this is a topic and a policy that has been falling apart for many years, and that's exactly why we've ended up in the situation we're in. This government must have boasted of taking on energy policy in a completely different way from what it did before. We've put Mongstad in place with CO2 cleaning, we've put in place a historic commitment to new renewable energy. Now we have to give it time to work. So it's Gunnar Kvassheim, who's coming after me. He was out when this was proclaimed, and said that now he had to clean the ovens in place. There are 100,000 ovens sold this year. A level of aid of NOK 1000 for each furnace will be SEK 100 million. kr. Where's the money, Gunnar Kvassheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e743	I thank the representative Borten Moe for the question and the contributions to an elegant exchange. It is positive that the Government has made a proposal for a grant scheme for measures that may limit the use of electricity in households. It is also positive that it happened so early that many households can enjoy this already this winter. But it is that this scheme will have a limited impact on total consumption and thus the big picture of energy policy. However, it will affect many households, and that is good. The Left believes that the aid scheme should have a greater scope and should be wider. What is currently under way is concentrated support for a limited range of options available and the most expensive options. In our view, the extension of the scheme would significantly increase the savings effect. I record that the case rapporteur in his reference to major poets says that the bet is just right. The left has greater ambitions than that. It's a cautious beginning, it should have been expanded, and, just as important, this should continue. The left believes that clean wood stoves and air-to-air pumps should be included in this. It is right that there is a significant turnover of these products, and it is possible to discuss whether it is natural to support these alternatives – I agree with that. When the Left wants it, it is because it will help to increase the overall savings effect, and because such support will now become more and thus could also act as a more powerful measure in mobilising awareness of the opportunities we have to manage energy more rationally in individual households. So for the left, it's also very important that the system continues. A few representatives said that in our alternative state budget they did not find a provision for money for the increased bet that Left wants. I'll help with a little reader's guide. The left says that the entire provision of Enova as proposed by the Government under the Energy Fund is 400 million. kr, we want to use for energy conversion and saving measures, and then we want to stimulate renewable energy production through a feed-in scheme of the type of green certificates. As a result, we are provided with much more resources to continue and intensify savings. In the picture we are now discussing, where a manufacturer is making this as an important measure to correct the imbalance between consumption and production on the energy side, it appears as an ever-increasing paradox that the Government is scrapping the Green Certificate Scheme, and is wasting important time that could have been used to get renewable energy production on the promise. I would like to stress the importance of providing an information campaign, because the individual consumer not only has the means that one here through support schemes will stimulate, but we also have opportunities in individual households to reduce consumption significantly in a rather easy way through a more conscious attitude towards consumption and through installation – partly cheap instruments. This possibility should be used and supported through an offensive information campaign by the authorities. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is very important now that it looks as if the air has gone out of the balloon – or rather, the water enters the warehouses – that the pressure on the savings work does not stop. It is at least as important now as it was earlier in the harvest to keep pressure on this both for the authorities, for the energy companies and for the individual households. The possibility of saving large amounts for individuals is definitely present, and in sum this can also be an important contribution to the large energy picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e763	Many households are concerned with assessing alternative energy sources that may limit the use of electricity. This is one of the reasons why the Government proposes to introduce measures to help households make good and conscious energy choices, and these measures are in this context a subsidy scheme for households and an information campaign for households and businesses. Thus, the aim of this grant scheme is to support households to invest in mature technologies that are not currently widespread, and therefore this scheme includes pellet stoves, water-borne heat pumps and power-saving management systems. Both pellet stoves and pellet boilers can be time controlled and thermostat controlled in such a way that they are well suited as a stable main source of heating. In addition, they have low air emissions and good energy use. Liquid-to-water heat pump and air-to-water heat pump have not had the same market development as the air-to-air heat pump and need a lift to become an alternative for households. We also received messages from dealers of this type of heat pumps that there has been a significant increase in sales of this type this autumn. Support for power-saving management systems is important in order for this type of technology to also be used in households that do not have a pipe or water-borne heating system. On Friday 13 October, Enova opened up applications for support to limit electricity consumption in households. The response has been very good. Some 14 000 applications have been submitted. This is a good sign that the scheme is popular and that the interest in alternative heating modes is high among Norwegian households. It also shows that we have picked out technologies that have an increased potential, and in view of the great interest in the scheme, the Government has also proposed to grant 25 million. NOK extra to the scheme. This proposal will lead to a new ageing of the state budget for 2006. Let me stress, in relation to what several of the speakers have said about the scope of the scheme, that this is a limited scheme that is initially, today, granted 46 million. kr to, and with an additional allocation in the re-saltation of 25 million. kr, but the household grant scheme will therefore be included in Enova’s ordinary instruments from 2007, as opposed to the previous. This means that when Enova's framework increases simultaneously, as a result of the establishment of the Energy Fund by DKK 10 billion and a commitment mandate of SEK 400 million. kr, Enova’s ability to have different types of support schemes aimed at households will also be significantly better than they have been so far. In this way, we will be able to stimulate the necessary energy conversion in households in the years to come. So this isn't the end, it's a cautious beginning of a completely necessary energy conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e777	I listened with interest to the talks of the Council of State, and I would say that I think this government is taking too lightly the strained force situation we are faced with, after all. This device proposed by the Government here has been filed by the Heat Producers Association for ESA. It is believed that the scheme needs to be made more technology-neutral and that several types of heating technologies need to be implemented. Of course, if this device and the proposal by the Government are to have a positive impact and make an energy contribution, and if we are to remedy the strained power situation, more energy sources should be implemented. Then my question is: does not the government see this, that there is actually a need to implement more energy sources, such as energy sources. to provide support for clean-burning wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps, that it could remedy the strained power situation that we now seem to be facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e782	The most important thing to remedy the strained power situation we have is to ensure that we get increased production into the Norwegian system. The Government does so in several ways, including: through a historical commitment to the management of gas power plant CO2. We've got a good setup in Mongstad. We are also working with Kårstø, and we have said that we should also contribute to CO2 disposal at other gas power plants that are being built. That's the one. But the most important thing we can do is to continue what we have always done in Norway, that is, to invest in renewable energy. We have a great potential for renewable energy use. That is why we have set up a fund and we are making provision for a support scheme for more generation of wind energy, more production of bioenergy, with the infrastructure support programme to be able to use more district heating and thus relieve the electricity supply. Then we also have a scheme to expand small power. That's the most important thing we can do. Then, as I have said, we will expand and include these support schemes in Enova's ordinary programme from 2007, and then Enova will be freer to design this on different technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e795	This is a matter which focuses on measures to limit the use of electricity. We had a similar incident in Stortinget two years ago, and then at least today's government parties had the impression in the debate that these were very little accurate arrangements, primarily against those who have the biggest problems dealing with high electricity bills. My question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is: The current system and the arrangements that are coming, and which are to be handled by Enova, will there be arrangements that can have a greater impact on those who have the biggest problems in managing unmanageable electricity billing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e800	Enova's work is primarily aimed at achieving an energy conversion towards environmentally friendly use of energy and not at providing support for high electricity prices or the payment of electricity bills, as the representative asks. So Enova's work will primarily be aimed at contributing to a necessary energy conversion. So it's not like today's government parties were opponents of the arrangement that Bondevik II joined in 2003. On the contrary, what is the opposition today contributed to the significant extension of the regime proposed by the government at that time, so that the applicants you had at the time could receive the funds requested. As the representative probably remembers, it was not entirely in line with the government's own wish that this system be extended at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e807	It's good to hear the council say this isn't the end, but the beginning of financing a conversion, and that this is going into Enova's work, money pot. But it is, as the Christian People's Party sees it, important that the Government and the Minister of Energy have a focus on this very part of Enova, so that we get a good conversion. My question is: does the Council of State see the need for this part of Enova's work to need an evaluation at a given time in order for us in this Chamber to see whether the arrangements we are making are accurate to get the energy conversion that is necessary and that we agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e812	The answer to that is yes. Enova, like all other state agencies, will be evaluated at regular intervals. We are now in the first evaluation of Enova after the first five-year period since its creation. Of course, grants to households will not be evaluated in this round, because it is only included in Enova’s 2007 framework. In the past, Enova has not had the opportunity to grant grants to households. It is a new area of work for Enova, and of course, in the next evaluation it will also be evaluated. So I think there's reason to stress that so far Enova has had a goal of prioritizing what gives the most energy to a lowest possible diet. A conversion where you want to control more e.g. in the direction of district heating infrastructure, which is absolutely necessary, may not produce the rapid results you would like. But despite that, we believe that it is a necessary conversion to make more use of bioenergy and also to stimulate households to a more conscious energy conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e821	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e826	Today’s debate and the proposed appropriations are in the background of the country’s power supply and high electricity prices. We should then make proposals for measures that deliver the most energy-related results and contributions in relation to costs. It is not enough to measure the success of a device according to the number of applications received or the size of the appropriations themselves. In the case of the Party of Progress, the essential device on the allocation and the bottom system is the device. The result we get in terms of power and energy prices will be what is the success criterion. Some people say that the important thing about this system is that it's oriented towards immature technologies. It's just a scalpel. Then one should be included to the most extent, e.g. solar cells, which everyone here is talking about so positively, but they were not included in this aid scheme, nor were solar heating or gas burners, for example. Then you could talk about helping immature technologies. When we dealt with the corresponding case in the previous period, there was a massive red-green demand from several to get wood stoves into this aid scheme. The requirement that stoves have to enter has come from red-green politicians even this year. It just shows that the government doesn't take the situation seriously. There are a number of red-green politicians here who are being overrun by their own. Then there are several people who say that it is good to see that the scheme has broad support. Have these people read the setting, where an overall opposition wants a broader arrangement than what the Government has come with? There is no evidence of broad support, there is evidence that the government has committed itself internally to the least common multiple, without being able to obtain something that is really offensive. The representative Sørensen says that this is a long-term and good policy. And the representative Borten Moe says that this is a success, because there are so many people who have applied. In fact, these are short-term, transitory measures with marginal impact on the energy situation. It is a support scheme for the rich middle class and not a help for those who will labor with high electricity prices. And it's support for foreign competitors to Norwegian-produced wood stoves. We have one pellet stove producer in Norway that produces hundreds of stoves. We produce tens of thousands of wood stoves in Norway. So they now have subsidised competition. The representative Borten Moe says that the government has done a lot, things are in place, let it work, and shows, among other things. for the promotion of renewable energy. Yes, four pages are the paper on renewable energy investment. It is one of the most embarrassing things that has been delivered in the form of groceries messages to this house. It's very little that's clarified. A great deal was also unclear when it came to the pelleting of this government. People were invited to buy pellet stoves before Enova had at all explained which pellet stoves would be supported. The long-term approach to a problem like this is that of the opposition, but also that of the Progress Party on Half VAT on heat sources. Then you give people the opportunity to make the decisions that are good for their households, and they're not just being presented the favorite technology to the government that's always sitting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e841	Our climate challenges require a huge scale of reduced emissions of nitrogen and carbon dioxide. This is now becoming widely recognised, and there is great excitement among people. It is necessary to limit the growth of fossil energy consumption. We have to have a nominal decrease in consumption. It should be our goal to take the climate challenges seriously. The government parties here have a completely different positive attitude to this issue than the Right Party and the Advance Party. Climate challenges require in our cold, long-term country, with objectives of good, long-term welfare development for individuals and, above all, of profitable industrial further processing of our natural resources, a strong increase in renewable energy spending. If we are to take the climate challenges seriously, we need to focus mainly on renewable energy. As a country, we have a unique opportunity. This option stimulates the use of heat pumps, which have a large increase in household use. And that's very true. The Financial Committee is now discussing our future instruments to reduce CO2 emissions in order to meet our Kyoto commitments. For our industrial and transport sectors, this will involve major changes in production technology. In order for business to have a reasonable opportunity for profitability in an increasingly demanding international market, we must have an active country. We need to dimension sectoral measures based on the specificities and challenges of the industries. As a central party, I am particularly pleased that we have both an energy minister and a Minister of Industry who strongly argues for this line. In total for industry, this will result in a sharp distortion of energy consumption from heavy oil to renewable energy. This will be a major economic challenge, but no country has a corresponding financial autonomy for the Community to contribute financially to the process of transition. In the view of the Centre Party, it must be very important to use our freedom of action on that point. It will be one of the most important issues that need to be reviewed in the 2008 state budget. For households, today’s debate shows that there is at least a consensus in word that future domestic heating needs to be rapidly shifted from electricity and oil to other renewable energy, whether it is in the direction of heat pump, by- or water-borne renewable energy-based heat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e858	It was the representative of Lundtegen who inspired me to ask for the floor. I fully agree with Mr Lundtegen that the climate challenge is probably the biggest challenge facing the world in this century. So I noticed that the representative also claimed that the red-greens have a different and more positive attitude to this question than, among other things. Right. I don't know what he put in a more ‘positive attitude’ to climate change, but with a bit of a benevolent interpretation, it is well that climate change is not positive, but positive for action to be taken to prevent climate change. That's where we're on the line. We are in line with the fact that much more stringent regimes are to be implemented at both national and international level, and we also need to set a good example at home. With regard to the right in this context, it is interesting to note that during the four years of the co-operation administration, the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions did not increase in total — if you add up to these four years both on land and on the base. The year now has not been a positive one for national greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore important to rapidly follow up on the low-emission sample. I had also imagined that the red-green government had shown much greater initiative in the preparations for the Great United Nations Conference in Nairobi. There was deafening silence in the case of Norwegian initiatives to achieve a good result. I also fully agree with the representative Lundtigen that increasing the share of renewable energy in Norway is essential for us to succeed in making a positive contribution also nationally to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But it doesn't keep, as Lundtigen does, to be positive to action when what the government does, in fact, is insufficient. Talk to all those involved, both with those responsible for building renewable energy, and with those organisations following environmental and climate issues. This renewable energy fund is a much worse solution than the green certificates had been. It's almost not to believe that the Center Party is making itself boast of this now, considering how busy they were of the green certificates. Bioenergy, wind and hydropower support schemes are much lower in the Norwegian Renewable Energy Fund than they would be with green certificates. So I would have been a little bit lower in the terrain if I had been the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e873	It was an article that inspired several representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e876	Yes, it is easy to be inspired by Børge Burnde when he focuses on both the lack of perspective of the government's climate policy and the lack of action to put in place more renewable production. The last year has been negative, says Børge Brende, in relation to reducing or getting control of greenhouse gas emissions. He called for a follow-up to the Low-Emission Committee. The main single measure The Low Emission Selection points to is gas power treatment. Earlier this year the government gave the concession to Mongstad, with full cleaning. It thus solved the Georgian knot, which has been almost as difficult as the EU case in Norwegian policy. You've moved on. Unlike the previous government, a new concession has been granted on gas power. And what was the Right answer? Yes: If we get the power in 2009, we're going to finish this project. Then we're going to make sure there's no cleaning of CO2 in Mongstad. So that was the right answer to that challenge. Furthermore, Børge Burnde is the leading representative to call out that the government should have given a concession a mass to all sorts of other gas plants, with or without CO2 cleaning, it is in central Norway or elsewhere. Then it is tempting to ask: What would it have been like for national greenhouse gas emissions? In the case of State aid schemes, or the Climate Fund versus the Green Certificates, several debates have taken place in this Chamber. It's worth noting that the green certificates would only have been an incentive to produce electricity, not heat, not bioenergy and not know. These include: what this government promises, and as I think it promises in a very good way through the support schemes that are now being launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e893	I had not really thought I would keep a three-minute post, but after listening to the representative from Lundtigen's post, I absolutely needed to comment on it. The representative from the Centre Party, Lundtigen, says that climate challenges require a strong commitment to renewable energy. But what he says, in no way stands in the way of the puzzled proposal that is now available from the Government in this field. Certainly, a large-scale commitment to renewable energy and an energy conversion in Norway is required – from electricity to alternative energy sources. What the representative can do in this way is to vote on the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter. It will be exciting to see if he really does, because if there is to be any substance in what the representative Lundteg said a few minutes ago from this pulpit, he must also follow this up in active action. In this way, I have to note that it is now the Progress Party that has taken the leading role in working for more investment in alternative energy use in Norway, and in order to get away from the unilateral dependence on hydropower, and move on to energy sources that we have a great potential to exploit in Norway. Here the Progress Party will promise to follow up what we have said in the debate today in this context. And to the Center Party and Lundteigen: Welcome to the Advance Party in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e904	Not all batches in this room have agreed with our international commitment to reducing emissions of nitrogen oxide or carbon dioxide. But at least it has been clear to everyone that we have long ago signed up to protocols and agreements that involve significant commitments. The implementation of those obligations may be reasonably easy for many. In some economic environments, there is a rather simple solution to how to do it. However, for those of us who try to combine high environmental ambitions with an all-round business, it is far more demanding. Unlike the former government, where Burne was a participant for a long time, this government has addressed these issues, most recently through the proposal to reduce NOx emissions. It is quite difficult, as we have to maintain the profitability of our processing industry, in our shipping along the coast and in our fisheries, while at the same time having practical results. And that was my point. The current government here has been able to design agreements and regimes that have a broad understanding of business, because one sees that one has a government that is willing to combine these two considerations and get results. Similarly, there were results of the stimulation of renewable energy through the feed-in mechanism, which did not happen under the previous government. This is a major and central approach, which is more crucial to developments in these areas than many may be aware of. It's these big lines of nitrogen oxide and carbon dioxide emissions where the Progress Party is failing the climate and does not stimulate future-oriented manufacturing technology in business, which many people see as absolutely necessary, and which will be one of our great advantages in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e918	I did not intend to speak, because I thought that the debate initially kept to what was on the map – measures to limit the use of electricity in households in Norway. There are measures that the Government has for example put in place in the autumn. So Børge Brende took the floor, and then I have to say that I reacted a little, because Børge Brende addressed the major challenges we have with regard to the greenhouse gas emissions in the world and the changes that are about to happen. That is exactly what I agree with Burnde in, but he drew up a completely different debate with these questions. In fact, he claimed that the sitting government does not take seriously the climate challenges we have in the world. But Børge Burnde, when he was in government, strongly agreed to sign strong international protocols to reduce emissions. The measures that we have put in place in the harvest are part of the many measures that the current government is taking. So Børge Burnde says that the emissions actually didn't increase under the previous government. Yes, they did. I have to ask Mr. Børge Burnde: what initiative did the previous government take to limit emissions? They were microscopic. Why did the previous government not propose to follow up the international protocols on which it agreed to sign, among other things? The Gothenburg Protocol? The sitting government follows this up for example. I also notice what the right is doing in the financial position in relation to the NOx emissions, the CO2 emissions, etc., on the charging side. You're shadowing away. You don't take it up. I think you should pay some attention to using the big words. Nor was it so that it sprayed around the previous government when it came to producing electricity in Norway. Not a single gas power plant with CO2 cleaning was started. No initiative was taken in that field at all. They just wanted to turn up all the cranes. I think Børge Burnde and Right should be a little humble when they talk about international agreements and local follow-up of them. At least the current settings do not show that the Right has been so progressive in those areas. But it's said that criticism is very effective. As to why they said no to the green certificates, I thought that Børge Brende and Right had come to realize that it was the burden-sharing we could not accept at all, that Norway would take a much greater ‘load’ than the Swedish took in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e940	First, I want to remind you of what I said in my previous post, that the reason why I asked for the word was Lundtigen's contribution, where he claimed that the red-greens have a completely different and more positive attitude to climate change and challenges than the previous government. Based on that, I answered the small businessmen who were there – this as an information to Tore Nordtun, in case the representative missed it. In fact, when it comes to climate change, I think there's a reason to use the big words. But big words must also be followed up concretely. We have this year's Ibsen year, and in Peer Gynt it says, "Where the starting point is crazy, looks at the results become the most original." I agree with the representative Lundtägen that much needs to be done to limit NOx emissions in Norway in order to deal with the Gothenburg Protocol, but the representative Lundtägen says that these are important measures from the Red-Greens to prevent climate change. I would like to ask the representative Lundtigen to explain to the Storting how NOx affects the global climate, the climate policy impact of this effort to limit NOx emissions, as the representative highlighted them as very large. It would have been very interesting for me to get to know the new knowledge you've gained in that area. So for the effort of the government that I sat in. It didn't do anything, said the representative Nordtun. We submitted a climate announcement because we were not satisfied with the climate announcement that the previous working party government had made. That climate notification also led us to establish a national climate regime, a quota system in Norway, which the Workers' Party in its time did everything they could to torpedoes. Among other things, our government had to make a compromise with the Swedish Government in order to put this important climate policy instrument in place. All due respect for what they did at the time, but it tried the Workers' Party to torpedoes. We also took the initiative of the Low Emissions Committee, which we are now discussing. This is not an initiative of State Council Bjørnøy. This is an initiative of the government in which I sat. During the period set by the Co-operation Government, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions did not increase. Under the red-green, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are now increasing sharply. So I'd like to ask the representative of Nordtun to look at the answers that the committee has received from the department. In reply letters, the Ministry of the Environment has summed up developments over the four years we have been in government. Reference is made to stability at that time — no increase in greenhouse gas emissions overall, but now they are increasing sharply. This is probably the strongest indicator that this government does not have a good enough climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e960	The President will note that the debate is now moving quite far from the point of view of the matter being debated. The President asks the remaining speakers to stick to the topic under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e963	However, I have to start my post by giving some adult training to the former Minister for the Environment. I actually thought he knew that when the wood processing industry went from oil boilers to gas boilers because it gave less NOx emissions, it also gives less CO2 emissions. It is a fact that a former Environment Minister should, of course, be aware of. When you're going to write the story, it's important to relate to the reality that has been. The previous government promoted a similar plan after they realized that there was a majority on the Stortinget for it. Then they came to Stortinget with a tiny package of measures, which Stortinget pushed up – and which was then implemented. In this context, I remember that the only proposal for action that the then oil and energy ministers had was that people included in their evening prayer that it should start to rain. I also register with interest that in today's meeting a proposal from, among other things, is being made. Christian People's Party. It shows that the state can actually be good to have when one is failed by the Spring Lord. In this context, it is also true that this debate is really much bigger than just what is going on. Because after the Energy Act came, energy policy has made it more profitable to have little power — and write down their installations — than to expand new ones. The less force it gets, the higher the price. That's our challenge. That's why the Christian People's Party is to be commended for the proposal today, that the state should have both a right and an obligation to meet this, based on the energy need that we're going to have in the future. It's a whole new policy from the Christian People's Party that we naturally appreciate. Historically, energy expansion and the major environmental measures in this country have not come from a market-neutral right-wing policy, but precisely from the fact that we have had politicians who have had the will to want a direction in society that has given us more energy, more industry, and that people have had low electricity prices. I look forward to that in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e980	I need to repeat the main message in this case, namely that we are introducing a system to spread immature technologies in the market. As a little bit of a side view, I'll tell you that this isn't new. In 1935 the Lightworks tried out panel furnaces in Norway. They shiped them in from London. The following year they were produced and sold in the country. In 1960 it was 68 pst. as used for refurbishment. Today the situation is diametrically opposite because 69 pst. use electricity as the main source of heating. What this proposal involves is supporting pellet stoves, heat pumps, heating systems and management systems. This can help to reduce electricity consumption in households. There are some people here today who have brought this up with clean-burning ovens. I would like to say that there is a report from the SFT. I have many questions for the opposition that have promoted an alternative proposal. Does this mean that they want to water down this scheme – I don't see any new money? How do they relate to the system that's in Bergen and Oslo, where you actually give support? I think that proposal is puzzling. With regard to the large picture, which some of the biggest representatives are drawing up today, I see that this does not result in any proposal that is to be voted on. So I guess that's just the words.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e993	We were in for a moment on a little surrealistic debate. We actually discussed the Government's proposal – in an attempt to acquire a good conscience towards electricity customers, where one supports the rich middle class in order to buy some energy-saving measures in their homes. So we end up with a big debate about climate, which has very little to do with the essence of this. I have not noticed that the climate was mentioned once by the committee's own members. I think that representatives who are not in the committee have misunderstood a little what it really is about here. I would like to take initiatives to promote a self-interference on climate action and its cost-effectiveness. That would allow the representative Lundteg to be an active negotiator. He could be in the debate on thorium too. It actually has something to do with the future energy supply and climate change in the world. However, the conclusions of this debate today are simply that the government parties are not discussing the energy effects of the action. Energy means very little here. One does not discuss what results this has for Norwegian business. We know that the measures taken by the Government stimulate increased imports of energy products and reduce the competitiveness of Norwegian-produced goods. One does not discuss the certainty of the results in relation to those who will actually have to contend with high electricity prices, as the measures only help those who have good money and are unlikely to worry as much about high electricity prices. Today's energy use is, after all, a consequence of a wild policy from a staggering majority over many decades. Now starting to talk about the fact that households have not done their own job in a way, becomes quite cowardly to the majority who have been governing energy policy for many decades. Then I also have to get a little bit into what the representative Lundtegen pulled up. I do not experience the situation so that the industry here is cheering over the NOx measures that the Government came with. It has nothing to do with the climate, but still. There was a full war in the industry about the measures the government came with. That's why the government has in a way also done some setbacks. With regard to climate quotas, we see daily in today's business that there is a full war on what is a sensible climate policy. It is not the case that there is an established government policy that reaps support from the large business community. And in the case of CO2, let me stress that the Progress Party supports the process that is at Mongstad, and we support the process that is at the Tent God. In fact, the government's real policy in the case of Mongstad, just in line with what the Progress Party has proposed, and expressed itself in press releases, and the government finally managed to stumble into a relatively good solution, and we are pleased with that. It is not just a matter of taking action and believing that we have done the job. The Progress Party is therefore opposed to the project at Kårstø, because it is a bad project, and it costs a lot of money without implementing specific environmental measures. But I understand that in a debate like this, it's not the effects you're after, but it's who can afford money. It does little for those who fear high power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1017	The case rapporteur tries in an affordable way to put the matter in focus again. But the rapporteur draws some conclusions and calls it 'puzzle'. I think that word we might be able to use in forums other than the main hall, but it'll be for the account of others. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not see that this proposal that we are in today will be a dilution of the system, because as we are now discussing it, this is 2006 money. The 2006 money was not finally debated and adopted in this Chamber. This will also come back to the Christian People's Party on the day we shall debate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1024	Let me also help you get back to the matter we're really discussing. It has been said different things from the Progress Party today from the pulpit. I saw the first contribution from the Progress Party as a factual contribution, which also ended by voting in favour of the Committee's recommendation to introduce this aid scheme. This is something we appreciate, and it shows that there is broad support for establishing a support scheme for households. When I hear the last article from the representative of Solvik-Olsen, who describes the action as a measure to provide the middle class with a good conscience, I think it is rather strange that the Progress Party will vote for it in the Chamber today, but I hope that it is the first post of the Progress Party that expresses what the Progress Party believes in this matter today. There have been major debates about the climate. The link between today’s debate on support schemes and the debate on climate challenges is that these support schemes will make it easier for people themselves to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. That's good. It is nice that we get support schemes that also help households to participate and make a contribution. So someone says it's small. I believe that this is a strategically important measure. It's like we use more electricity in this country for heating than we do in any other country. There's a broad consensus on that. Getting to do something about it in the long term is important. This is the beginning of an energy conversion in households. So I would like to say that I am very pleased with what the Council of State said today, that this is not a scheme, as some have said, which is to end now. This is a scheme to be continued through the ordinary support system of Enova. It shows that this is not – someone has probably also used the word – panic measures. This is a planned measure of the Soria Moria declaration to be continued in the ordinary system. I especially ask that the Christian People's Party, which has been concerned with the long-termity of this, remember that. This is a long-term arrangement, and not something to end now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1037	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has previously had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1040	Thank you for that. The representative Yrvin, from the Workers' Party, asked questions as to whether there was a need to incorporate new technologies, and believes that the proposals of the Advance Party involve a dilution, as was said from the Stockholm pulpit, of this system. This is with respect not to report very credible. What is the intention behind the ambitious proposal of the Progress Party, on the other hand, is to strengthen this – as was said earlier – puzzled system proposed by the Government. By implementing – as I said in my main post earlier – new schemes that include, among other things. Pure-burning wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps, gas burners, solar system, solar panel, etc., contribute to the strengthening of this system by the Progress Party. It's not about diluting the system at all. This seems to me to be a very strange angle to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1051	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 812]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1067	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1076	The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal for an impact assessment on the protection/development of tissues and on a referendum on the protection of tissues. There are several reasons why the majority in the Committee concludes so, and it is possible that the different arguments are slightly different from the different batches. The debate will, if appropriate, illustrate this. The matter of protecting the web is now at the hearing of local authorities, with a consultation period which, as I understand it, is set for March. I assume that many years of consideration and debate on this matter, the ongoing consultation and the pro-posal to be submitted, will well elucidate the matter. Therefore, as the majority sees it, there is no need for further impact assessment. So to the question of referendum. The left favours the use of referendums, but there are examples of cases where it is not appropriate. These include: on matters already settled. Despite this week's Wefsna-debate, I believe that the question of the protection of the tissue is settled. The previous government said clearly that it would come back with a proposal, a matter of its own, for the protection of the Wefsna in connection with the treatment of the «Supplementing of the Verne Plan for Watercourses». Today, in the Soria Moria Declaration and on a number of other occasions, the government parties have stated that they are determined to protect the Wefsna. It is clear from the letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the Committee on Energy and the Environment that the Stortinget will be presented with a case on this next six months, which will form the basis for a general decision on protection in this Chamber. This means that a broad majority of the parties have stated that the time for the large hydroelectric expansions is over. It also means that it would be completely unnatural to invite to a referendum on a matter that is decided. I also think it would be unnatural for the Stortinget or the Government to decide that it should be a referendum in one or more municipalities. If the question had actually been open, there would have been an opportunity to take such a decision locally, but it would have been unnatural that the Storting had initiated that it would be a referendum. In conclusion, let me say that I hope the Council of State will take the opportunity to clarify that the Government of the Spring will make a proposal on the full protection of the Wefsna, and not on a much reduced level of protection, which the jubilant rapporteurs expressed after meeting with the Prime Minister and other representatives of the Government. I registered that the Council of State in «Event News» the other day said that all possibilities were open in this case. I liked better the variant that was sent yesterday, where the Council of State was aware that there was to be a case of full protection, where one would only accept the interventions that it was open to through the landfill treatment of the Protection Plan for watercourses. I'm assuming that's the result. With this, I have explained why the Committee does not wish to support the proposal submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1100	The Working Party, SV and the Center Party have not used many words for comments in the setting of this case. Neither have the Christian People's Party and the Left. We refer to the letter from the Minister of Oil and Energy dated 10 October 2006, which explains the government's planned progress in protecting the Wefsna. Everyone knows the reason why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have no desire to write many words in this case. We have the Soria Moria statement to deal with, and we intend to follow it. The matter of the protection of the tissue is now being discussed. The deadline was set for the year-end, but is now extended, until March 2007. This happened after a meeting that the municipalities of Wefsn, Grane, Hemnes and Hattfjelldal had with the Prime Minister last Tuesday. I'll get back to it a little bit. During the treatment of St.prp. No 75 for 2003-2004, Supplementary for the Protection Plan for Watercourses, the Wefsna was not included in the protection plan. This was agreed by the Workers' Party. Because of the strong local commitment, we wanted to have the opportunity to evaluate and evaluate the tissue with different alternatives. There has been an incredibly strong commitment to these municipalities for many years. They have followed the rules of the game, with open meetings, seminars, good information for the citizens, etc. Then came the fall of 2005, and the red-green parties had won the election. Governments designed Soria Moria statements. It says that the Government will ‘protect the Weapon Line from force building by including it in the Watercourse Protection Plan’. And on the other hand, ‘Food funds are established in the region concerned.’;» The four municipalities concerned had, as mentioned, a meeting with the Prime Minister on Tuesday of this week on compensation in the form of nutrition funds, but there was just as much a meeting on how to protect them. As they themselves say, how extensive should the protection be? What should be taken into account in determining compensation? What's the compensation going to be? What becomes important in this crucial work will be to arrive at a solution that is consistent with the Soria Moria Declaration, where one also ensures that the municipalities concerned are not hit too badly financially. In the four municipalities, there is a great interest in opening up cross-border watercourses in different ways. They think it is right to discuss this in connection with the negotiations on nutrition funds. The municipalities and county councils concerned will continue to work on this in the consultation round. We know that the hydroelectric development «Facilities of Helgeland» would give the municipalities and the county municipality approx. 50 million. kr per. years in new incomes forever, and society had gained 1.5 TWh power. It's not going to be like that. Then it is important what size this nutrition fund gets, and perhaps you can discuss other compensations as well as the fund. The Government will facilitate the cleaning of the tissue for Gyrodactilus salaris. This will help Wefsna to become an attractive salmon eel again, and to build up industries in relation to tourism if it is set up with good framework conditions. Another option is to add new state jobs to this region as a compensation. In Document No: The 8th proposal has also been put forward as a proposal for a referendum. I see no reason for the municipalities to be ordered by the state to initiate referendums. It must be decided by the municipalities themselves, at their own discretion. None of the municipalities have expressed their wish to do so, as far as I know. The web will be protected enough. Then we get politicians to do our job so that the loss of income from non-power development in these municipalities does not lead to further closures of business, with subsequent relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1129	In the election campaign came the red-green parties with many promises that a majority government would provide predictability, that a red-green majority government would ensure local democracy, and that a red-green majority government would ensure the energy supply. So far we've seen that there's been betrayal on all of these three points. The installation for the previous speaker actually illustrates that the red-green parties are fully aware of this themselves, since half of the post was about to buy themselves free from their bad conscience through a series of compensations. You don't have to compensate for anything if you haven't done any wrong to anyone. So it's good that government parties realize the wrong they've now done. I took up three points initially – first predictability: in this case we have seen that there has been a lack of predictability around Wefsna. Depending on the day one listened to the NRK, got a different impression of what the Government really meant about the Wefsna. Should they protect, as they said in the government statement, or should they use reason and choose a solution in line with what a wish locally? I interpret the signals from the Minister of Energy positively. I believe that the Minister of Energy has seen that the project in Vefsna, «Possibles of Helgeland», is a good project, that it is a cost-effective project, a project that leads to small environmental interventions, and that in no way is it like the projects that warn against when a warning against large hydroelectric plants. But I see that the Minister of Energy has been squabbled by his co-players in the Government, and not least by the Swedish Environmental Link Association, which means that one has to implement the protection whether it is good or bad. I'm sorry. Local democracy is betrayal No. 2: We know that in all the four municipalities affected by the Wefsna development, there is a massive desire to build up the Wefsna according to the project «Possibilities of Helgeland». It is rare that I get telephones from workers' party rapporteurs who are begging and asking that the Progress Party fight for their case, but in this case I have actually received it. That is why the Progress Party has asked for a referendum. It is not because the rapporteurs locally need to know what people think, because it is largely in agreement in these municipalities that a person wants the projects, but because the government is going to get a clear signal that this is not just their own politicians who want it. The population in the municipalities thinks these are good projects. That's why I'm very concerned when the government works to protect the fabric without carrying out thorough investigations, which they demand in all other matters. Take, for example: gas pipeline to Grenland. It was investigated in the seventh year, and probably no conclusion is drawn this year either. But in the case of tissue, a protection must be provided without doing the necessary pre-work. I believe that is a breach of the prerequisites that were laid down when the Stortinget dealt with the protection plan for watercourses. So to the point of security of supply. Everyone agrees that this is a difficult balance of power. Everyone says that someone is looking for measures. The red-green batches have been offensive in the media and criticised the power industry for not bringing projects. They're punishing the industry, and they're punishing State power in particular. Among other things, the parliamentary leader of SV, Inge Ryan, has been looking for State power and said that he can see that they can take out 98 pst. dividends, because that company never comes with projects. The representative Ola Borten Moe has been out in almost every media and said that the most important thing now is to evaluate the Energy Act, so that we get new power projects on the track. So we'll ever get one of the best hydropower projects in the country, which gives us cheap electricity, no new interference in protected areas and 1.5 TWh current – that is half the Kårstø project – and the first government says: No, we can't have that project. The problem is not what the red-greens have called for, namely action by State power or new energy laws, the problem is those who sit in this room, and especially the red-green politicians who are pursuing a policy that is not in line with what they are going out and promising. See Statkraft: 98 pst. in dividends! They have made one of the best power projects in the country, because Statkraft is behind the project ‘Possibles of Helgeland’. I'm going to like to see those who dare to go out into the media after this and say that Statkraft does not come with projects. In that case, they have a very bad memory, but I expect that it will happen. So today we're following up the red-green passivity. I notice that although the representative Rolf Terje Klungland was out in the VG a few months ago and lamented that the minority in the Stortinget had been squabbling the bulk of energy policy, there is no one – hardly enough Klungland, I tip – who will use the day today for an uprising to make the most of what the bulk of energy wants, and that is probably what the Minister of Energy really wants. Then he talked about the government having offensive policies in many areas. Four aspects of renewable energy in the energy message are one of the most embarrassing, but there are at least more than four lines in this matter of tissue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1150	The President was somewhat doubtful about the term ‘environmental link thread from SV’ used by the representative. But the president didn't think of wanting to club, as those who might have been subjected to this look at it as positive and as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1153	In today's debate, the rapporteur states that the time for the major hydroelectric projects in Norway is over, and has obviously received support from today's three government parties. Based on what representatives from today's government parties clearly stated before the last elections, I believe that Norwegian electricity customers and, not least, Norwegian industry today may be more concerned with getting a clear message about what the government parties and the rapporteur's party are for when it comes to the possibility of providing proposals for what can provide the market with new renewable energy, which can help to create a balance in the energy market today, than of continuing to hang in the trees and highlight with the tab everything you're against. When representatives of the Red-Green parties in the Helgeland region who sit in the rapporteur's chairs in Industrie-Helgeland, who have a sub-covery but have a lot of industrial plans in place, the representative of the Workers' Party today hears that the Workers' Party won the election, that the Red-Green won the election, I do not think they can sit and enjoy it. For one won the election, but one got into a situation where they lost the biggest and most important thing that could have helped to generate new energy, which could have helped to provide new industry, and which might have helped reverse a population development that is declining throughout this region. It is therefore discouraging today to hear that representatives from the Workers' Party will vote against this project, and it is discouraging to record that representatives who are members of the Joint Union will do the same. It is also discouraging to note today that the representative Lundtigen, who said in the previous debate that we need a strong commitment to renewable energy in Norway today, will meet up with the vote and vote against what could have been a jafs that could have provided the country with 1.5 TWh new renewable energy – without brutal natural interference, without major intrusions, with the renewal of 50-year-old turbines, with underground tunnels, etc. This gentle, gentle project, defined between permes as ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’, shall vote against those who stand up and shall be spokesmen and spokesmen for renewable energy, for Norwegian industry in particular. And they're consistent with open eyes. I would also have thought – with the situation we actually have today, with the debate we have on energy issues, on price issues, on imbalance – that one would have been willing to look at this matter with new eyes and with a different approach. I had at least thought that one could open up an impact study, so that one had a background, a knowledge, that could give answers to the complicated questions. But you close your eyes again, and then you say no to an investigation. And then to talk about that for this part of Norway, which has one of the few remaining industrial clusters in the process industry and in the forest industry, we have to step up with some sort of conversion municipal status, with compensatory measures, I can hardly imagine that many in this region will impress me. This region is primarily led by central workers' party people who have full support from the County Council in their activities in order at least to obtain an impact assessment. I think many of these received a little hope the other day after these rapporteurs had met the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Environmental Protection, who said that the last words were not said. There was a new hope in terms of the concept of ‘possibilities of Helgeland’ until yesterday we registered — perhaps not very unexpected — that the State Council of the Enoxens will return to a very central energy issue and will have to re-dement and dement. What was hoped for ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ has now turned around. It's actually underlined that these are going to be the lost opportunities for Helgeland. These are the lost opportunities for those who go with heavy industrial plans in Helgeland to get in place a big effort that could have created hope for this part of the region, which has a sub-covery. I think Norwegian industrial workers and electricity subscribers in this region should notice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1168	I refer to the introduction of the rapporteur and support the assessments that have been made as to why we reject the proposal for a decision that we are dealing with today. Let me just briefly say that the webbing is the last, large remaining watercourse that runs unspoiled from mountains to fjords that are not already either protected or extended. Getting the Wefsna protected will be a worthy rounding of the watercourse bag we have had in Norwegian history. Some have described the plans for the development of Weftsna as a small hydropower expansion today. It's a hydropower expansion of over 1 TWh, and it's a hydropower expansion that would have moved water equivalent to 1 TWh away from one of the wildest and most beautiful watercourses we have in Norway. Being protected has been important to us for a long time. It was important for us when we dealt with Protection Plan IV at the beginning of the nineties. It was important for us when we dealt with the supplementation of Verne Plan IV in the previous magnification period. With the Soria Moria declaration, it is now clear that the Weftsna watercourse must be protected. Let me also say that we have heard two former government cooperation partners from the Left and Right making diametrically opposite contributions to the debate here today – an article to protect the Wefsna, an article against. This shows that the clarification that was made when we dealt with the supplementation was a very poor clarification. Let me also state that when it is said that the Wefsna watercourse is to be protected, it is believed that the entire water catchment area of the Wefsna watercourse is to be protected. There are people who say that the Council of State has been out and demoralized. I have not heard that the Council of State has said something that should give rise to doubt. The Council of State has previously referred to a fact that was agreed upon by the supplementation of the Verne Plan IV in the previous magnification period, namely that it opens up to mini- and micro-power plants in all sheltered watercourses. These are the general provisions for the protection of all protected watercourses. It became clear during yesterday that there were not so many in the press room – because the press unit is not there, I can say this – who had come to know that it was possible, and they were able to cook soup on a very thin nail. The doubt that had to be due to the ignorance that we registered in some circles yesterday should also now be removed. Finally, let me say that there are common features between the Sem Declaration, on which the previous government built its policy, and the Soria Moria Declaration, on which this government builds its policy. One of the sentences that are common is that the time of the large hydroelectric expansions is over. It is a sentence that we stand for, and that the previous government stood for, and that should have formed a broad majority for how we should proceed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1185	For the Christian People's Party, conservation of nature is important, both for the sake of biodiversity and for the natural experiences of future generations. This is an important part of the administrative responsibility. Today's case concerns the impact assessment of and referendum on the protection of tissue. When the Stortinget dealt with the addition of the protection plan for watercourses, the Wefsna watercourse was not proposed for protection. But it was announced by the Bondevik II government that it would come back with a separate case about this when it was assessed whether the protection values could be combined with less expansional options. Putting this matter to the referendum now, as today's proposal takes precedence, the Christian People's Party does not seem to be a good idea. A great October day in 2005, many environmental victories were proclaimed to the outside world. The Soria Moria gang shared with us their new common policies. One of the points that was raised this October day relates to what we are discussing today, namely the protection of the Wefsna. Let me quote from the Soria Moria statement, even from the first point, under the chapter entitled “Vasstracts” – a few things are probably random in a government statement, and certainly not that this is the first point: ‘The Government will protect the Weaving Nebula from power build-up by including it in the Watercourse Protection Plan. Food funds shall be set up in the region concerned.’;» From this point we see that it has been a mortgage. That's okay, because that's how it's often in politics. But on that basis, Tuesday's look-up on Evening News in the NRK was quite surprising. There we saw and heard an energy minister who could not or would not forge the matter or its device. This is alarming all the time when the government statement is so clear. But yesterday the retreat came. Yes, I must be allowed to ask if this news item does not reveal the internal contradictions between the government parties here as well. I understand that everyone who gets to meet the country's prime minister and, in addition, several government councils gets excited. But meetings often create expectations. We see that also happened to the rapporteur from Hemnes, who says to the nation: ‘The government opens up dialogue with us, so that we can discuss the different protection options and the consequences they have for us.’ [[...]] I think everyone likes to know what to do. I ask that Stortinget also get this clarification from the Minister of Energy about what the Government's policy is in relation to the protection of the Wefsna. For the Christian People's Party, a full expansion of Wefsna is out-of-date, both because of the natural interventions and because we need to use our political energy to generate new renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1202	The proposal that has been presented to us here raises some fundamental issues that I hope the debate can clarify before it ends. One is the relation to the referendum – perhaps first and foremost. It is proposed here that the state organise a local referendum in the four municipalities concerned. Nothing is said about whether there should be an advisory referendum, or how any result should weigh in the further process. I would like to ask the Progress Party whether this is an attempt to open up a new administrative practice, which opens up the issue of national importance to local referendum initiated by the state. In that case, there would be a very special administrative regime that was raised in a wide range of questions, given that it could have delegated that kind of power and that kind of decision-making authority to state-arranged referendums locally, because one must assume that in that case this would not only apply to matters of protection or expansion of the tissue, but that in that case it would apply to several things. It also raises a question of who is to decide whether this is a matter to be decided locally by a referendum, even if it is a question of national issues, or whether it is the ordinary system through impact assessment, government treatment and ultimately downgrading that should be at the bottom. I would also like to ask the rapporteurs what they really mean, too early in the document, it is clear that: ‘The protection of Wefsna against future power deployment is, in the opinion of these members, an emphasis on the lack of Norwegian power policy.’ So it's clearly said that it has to be expanded here. And you'll tell me later: ‘These members consider that the final decision on the prudent development or protection of Weftsna must be taken by Stortinget in accordance with the usual procedure for dealing with such matters.’ My question is, are you able to confirm that you are unequivocally in favour of an extension here today? Or are you still open after the impact assessment, a process that the previous government initiated, to imagine a more or less large protection of the tissue? Then there are several people who have been on the threshold of hydropower expansion. That's what I think is relevant, because this doesn't just apply to hydropower. With regard to all energy production, society's threshold for taking on disadvantages has been very high. In my view, central government has become sectoral in its approach to these issues. The expansions which the county council does not stop may be halted by the Directorate for Nature Management or by the Riksantikvar because they have the opposition authority in their fields. It must then be possible to ask some questions about who has the overall responsibility for having an energy policy that ensures that there is a balance between supply and demand on the Norwegian electricity market. There I think the proposal that the Christian People's Party originally made today is very interesting and can form the basis for a very exciting debate in the time to come. Trondheim is now building a new power plant in Lower Leirfoss. It replaces two power plants that are almost a hundred years old. Upper and Lower Leirfoss are merged into a new power station 60 meters below a residential area. It's an investment of 250 million. kr and adds 50 GWh extra energy. What's special about this case is that instead of cheering up calls for good environmental policy and efficient resource use, local communities focus on the fact that there are people who have heard drilling in the mountains in the evenings, and that there are basement floors that have cracked in a housing house. Well, that's saying something. Maybe we who are sitting in this room, have to go ahead on some occasions and say that we still have to accept some of the disadvantages associated with energy production in this country, because the kilowatts we don't get here, we are undoubtedly going to have to replace them in another way, and it's not sure that that solution is going to be less painful.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1228	In Document No: 8:101 for 2005-2006, representatives of the Progress Party propose that the Government carry out an impact assessment of the effects of both the protection of the tissue and the implementation of an extension outlined by the ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’. Furthermore, it is proposed that a referendum be held on the protection or development of Wefsna in the municipalities of Wefsn, Grane, Hattfjelldal and Hemnes after the impact assessment has been completed. In the Committee's position, the representatives of the Right have also joined the proposal for an impact assessment, but they have not supported the proposal for a referendum. Since the representatives of the two parties are proposing new investigations, it may be appropriate to point out the procedure for the matter of the protection of the tissue. In St. prp. No 75 for 2003-2004, Complementing the Verne Plan for Watercourses, presented by the previous Bondevik government, where, in other words, the Right, who is now asking for impact assessment, was the largest party, the issue of the protection of the Weasel was investigated, in the same way as all other watercourses considered for protection. There is a considerable amount of work done in such cases. In the context of the supplementation of the Verne Plan, a steering group from the NVE and the Directorate for Nature Management, an advisory group consisting of representatives from municipalities, county councils and state agencies were set up, and industry and stakeholder organisations were associated with the management group. The Board’s proposals for protection and non-protection of the various watercourses were sent at a wide consultation to local and regional authorities, state and regional administrative offices, builders, stakeholder organisations and non-profit organisations, which made their views known. In the light of the proposals of the Steering Group and the hearing opinions received, the NVE developed its position on the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The NVE’s position was also sent at a wide-ranging hearing from the Ministry, and the consultation recordings are summarised in the supplementation proposal. In my opinion, this provides a good basis for decision. The government has taken the consequences of this by stating in the government platform that the government is going in to protect the Wefsna. The tissue watercourse is one of the few remaining large watercourses with few interventions. There are wide variations in landscapes, nature types and biology — from high mountains to fjords. Nevertheless, to clarify some aspects of the case further, I sent the protection question to the county council and the municipalities concerned in September, with the deadline for consultation on 2 January. However, the county council, which does not have a county assembly until the end of February, has requested an extended consultation period. I have accepted that and extended the consultation period until 1 March. So you have plenty of time to comment on this issue, also in the next round. The issue of the protection of watercourses is of essential national importance. Therefore, protection decisions are taken by the Storting in the light of thorough professional judgements and extensive and democratic consultation processes, where the involvement of the district will be central. It is tried to so doubt what is really the Government's position in this matter. It is explicitly stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that the Wefsna watercourse is to be protected. This may happen when a short part of an entry is sent in Evening News. I have said – which is quite right – that the Government has not, of course, dealt with this issue yet. We will do that after the consultation period has expired. There are a number of themes to be addressed, including: the matter of nutrition funds. But that doesn't mean the government isn't going to do what's in the Soria Moria statement, namely implement the protection of the tissue. So let me make that explicit. The consultation process is real. We're going to have dialogue with the parties. We aim to do that not only in this matter, but also in all other matters we have to deal with. We're trying to have a dialogue with the parties involved, not least about the compensation to be provided through the nutrition fund. There is nothing other than what I have responded to. As regards the protection of the Web, it is fixed in Soria Moria, and it will be the basis of the Government's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1252	I find it hard to understand why the Government is so negative to an impact assessment of the Wefsna. The list of issues to be addressed is long, including: the loss of income for the region of approx. 50 million. kr annually, the importance for business and new jobs in a region where we know that the population is falling, and not least the loss of perhaps up to 1,5 TWh renewable energy production, and that in a situation where Norway is now balancing on the edge of a power crisis. We have been given absolute transparency that regional and local political levels are very strong in their view that they will have an impact assessment. And then my question becomes to the Council of State: why does the Government not take more into account the opinions of regional and local government levels, which have so strongly signaled that they want an impact assessment of the Wefsna?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1259	As I used most of my main post to say, the previous government did a very thorough job with regard to the investigations to be made. A very common procedure was followed, this had a wide-ranging consultation round and involved the parties concerned. And, as I said in my post, we believe that the work done by the previous government is entirely satisfactory to decide on this matter. On that basis, the government parties in the Soria Moria Declaration have also stated that the Wefsna watercourse should be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1264	There is so much doubt about this matter, state councilman Enoxen says. What I'm in doubt about is whether the outcome has ended with the fact that the representative Heidi Sørensen, in the light of the state council's own statements, has threatened to take another trip northward, perhaps with old links. The doubts raised about this matter are, in fact, the Council of State itself, which has helped to create on the basis of this well-known and mentioned meeting of rapporteurs with the Prime Minister and three other Councils of State. I mean to quote the Council of State right when the statement was: Nothing is clear, and we do not want to pre-empt the matter. Then my question to the Council of State Enox: what has really happened in the red-green wardrobe, where unexplained, complicated things were not clarified the other day, to have again become crystal clear with a no-point in place the next day?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1271	There are no changes whatsoever in this case. The only thing that's different in those two days is that I've tried to bring a little bit more complete into my statement. The entry that was sent on the NRK Evening News the other day was a small part of a long statement I made. I understand that it was difficult for the NRK to fit the entire statement in a news dispatch, but in the statement I expressly stated that the Soria Moria statement was the basis for this, and that it was followed in the government's work on this matter. We have also sent the matter out to the hearing and extended the consultation period. I will receive the hearings and will deal with them in the Government when they are available. Then I must also be allowed to say – given Ivar Kristiansen’s contributions to the main debate earlier today – that when you listen to Ivar Kristiansen’s wonder that the Government takes the position it is doing, it is a little surprising to note that Gunnar Kvassheim expresses that the previous government would have put forward a proposal for the protection of the Wefsna for the Stortinget. So if the old government parties had won the election, Ivar Kristiansen would also have gone in for the protection of the Wefsna.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1280	I would like to thank the Council of State for its clarification. There will be protection of the Wefsna watercourse, and there will be no other intervention than those for which the Storting has opened during previous treatments. That means work up to 1 MW. That's good, and it was important to get that clarification. But the Council of State must understand that recent events have created confusion. The production that was given at Evening News a few days ago — when nothing was clarified — could not be understood in any other way than that there was a larger space of action than one previously foreseen. If it is the case that the signals given by the representatives of the Government at the meeting with the rapporteurs were just the signals that were already known, what was the reason why the rapporteurs went home and were so happy to have a new room for action and new opportunities? Is it the rapporteurs who have misunderstood the signals they received in the meeting with the Prime Minister and various government councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1287	I assume that what made the rapporteurs happy was among other things. the representative, Holten Hemdal, referred to – that the Government of that meeting has expressly stated that it is prepared to have a dialogue with them, not least with regard to the establishment of food funds, the consequences of the protection of the Wefsna, the implications of this for food funds, and also the extension of the consultation period, so that sufficient time can be given to comment on these matters. I would like the rapporteurs to be satisfied with the signals they received at that meeting. But there are no signs of a change in protection. In my opinion, there should not be any reason at all for creating any ambiguity in this matter. But I understand the opposition's need to tackle a tab like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1294	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1299	I think I'm going to start my post by referring to what a former municipal government colleague of mine from the Workers' Party, Gunnar Nordås, used to say, "There shouldn't be water in the sea until it's been in the pipeline." In some contexts, I will actually agree with him, and I think the Workers' Party would be well served to have more of these, which could do something about both the power situation and other conditions in this country. Now what we're experiencing is relatively defensive, to put it mildly. I think it disappoints many, especially in the municipalities affected in this case. Furthermore, I have to say that I am surprised at the introduction of the case rapporteur and the committee leader. It is possible that I misinterpreted him, but I realized that he said that this matter was not a good idea to go further, because it was decided. If that's the assumption, the Storting is out of work at my discretion, for most things are actually determined. Of course, I can add the goodwill and say that there were things I didn't understand in the posts of the representative Kvassheim, but if that's what he said and meant, I'm worried. I think that's a bad starting point. So with regard to today's theme, Wefsna, it's true that the Progress Party first asks for a further investigation and then a referendum, not the reverse. I believe that one of the main reasons why we have to do this is the desire to find out what the rapporteurs really want. I am also of those who have received telephones from workers' party rapporteurs in Helgeland, and who, at least to the undersigned, have come with a very different message from what the council stands here and talks about today: that they are well pleased. I had a phone call from one of them last night, which said they were not interested in any compensation at all. They want an extension. Another element that should at least affect the Centre Party and perhaps SV: What about local self-government? Those who are the great, cheering followers of local self-government, where do they stand in this matter? Is it only when it suits those who sit in this house that we should have it? Or is it that it's sometimes good and sometimes bad, and so you don't have a principle approach to it? I think that is bad, and I think there is a lack of respect for the local self-government that these parties obviously have to stand for themselves. Then there's another thing that hasn't been mentioned: it's that the Wefsn municipality has a large industrial workplace called Elkem. Elkem has looked forward to this expansion, for example: because they have large plans for further industrial development. But then they require access to power. They would have warmly welcomed this. They won't. The ability to deliver on this matter is well in line with what we have seen so far in the case of a new industrial power regime from the Council of State. We've heard about it several times, but have we seen it? No, no, no. It was also a moment that today's government party had a fairly high cigarette tour around during the election, but they have so far failed to deliver. Some of us look with great interest and great excitement until that happens. In the end, I think I should be so bold as to say that if it – it might be strange, but still – would end up being a new majority after the next election, I will at least insist that the Progress Party should put this matter on the agenda again, and then with a different starting point and result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1316	The party of progress is amazed to note that in the vote on the proposal for an impact assessment of the Wefsna, the parties of government, the Christian People's Party and the Left limit themselves to writing three and a half lines on this important proposal. The Progress Party has also noted that the Inner Helgeland Regional Council strongly deplores the proposal for protection and asks the Government to reconsider this. It is also worth noting that the ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ project is primarily an upgrading and extension project of already existing hydroelectric power plants, and thus does not represent any new, major natural intervention. The ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ project represents a gentle and environmentally friendly use of the hydropower resources of the Wefsna. ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ is a good project, which has been favourably received regionally and locally, and which will provide an additional energy contribution that the country now absolutely needs. Nevertheless, the government parties, as well as the Christian People's Party and the Left, refuse to carry out an impact assessment of the Wefsna. This is most strange, because if an impact assessment had shown that the project ‘Possibles of Helgeland’ would not have been such a project description, then one could only say no to development without necessarily protecting the entire watercourse, because a protection will also restrict other activities throughout the impact field, which will have significant negative consequences. The party of progress is of the definite opinion that both government and magnificence should have been so responsive to regional and local levels that at least the consequences of possible protection had been assessed before proposing protective measures for the Wefsna for the Stortinget. An urgent decision by the Government on the protection of tissues, without a thorough explanation of the positive and possibly negative societal consequences, is, in the view of the Progress Party, bad. Even worse, it will be when you do not want to take the necessary account of regional and local opinions. It is, in the view of the Progress Party, both unwise and – I would say – arrogant, discouraging and a demonstration of power in a frightening lack of democratic judgement on the part of the Government and the majority of the population when one is not at all willing to listen to regional and local statements on this matter. The protection of Wefsna is not advisable in the view of the Progressive Party. It would provide an energy contribution of up to 1.5 TWh, as has been said before, and this is an energy contribution that Norway sorely needs in a situation where we have a deficit of electrical energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1330	The representative Ellings had a wonder that deserves a response. He wondered if one of the reasons for voting against the referendum was that this matter was settled. Yes, the matter is settled. Tissues are protected. It established the previous government, and it establishes the government of the day. Then it will give those who will go to the referendum, false expectations and a wrong impression if you invite them to express their opinion on a matter where you know the outcome. I think, on the contrary, that it is important for politicians to show that they are to trust, and that is precisely by doing what one has said one should do. So that reason for going against the referendum I think is good. During the debate, there are some people who have argued that the Left and Right have had different views, as expressed here today. That's right, but in government we came to a common view. This was reflected in the supplementation of the protective plan, where one provided for the protection of 50 new watercourses and announced an adjustment with a separate protective case about the Wefsna. Then I registered that the Labour Party's representative, Torny Pedersen, closed his post with it one of the closest must call a last heart attack, where she said that the tissue is sufficiently protected. I could have preferred that the word ‘not at all’ had been taken out, but in the light of the clear assurances given by the Council of State, I believe that in this debate we have been given the necessary clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 812]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1355	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1364	There is currently a great deal of interest across the country to build and operate micro- and mini-power plants. In sum, this investment may contribute to the balance of forces but may also increase the profitability of the landowners concerned. In the proposal, the Right suggests that the NVE estimates the potential at land level of 25 TWh for new generation from small power plants. Then it is important to add the following: this is a purely theoretical calculation based on the GIS mapping, which does not take into account either environmental impact, user conflicts, property, network capacity constraints, etc. This number, 25 TWh, is pure theory and only right if you take the map by itself and put it into pipes all of small streams and waterfalls. In other words, 25 TWh is an overestimate. However, small-scale power plants are a good contribution and an important focus in Norwegian energy policy. The increase in the number of concession applications has resulted in a longer duration of proceedings in NVE. This is one of the reasons for Document No. the 8-proposal for the granting to each municipality of a concession authority for small-scale power stations of up to 1 MW. Today’s legislation opens up the possibility that small-scale power stations that are not in conflict with public interests do not need a concession at NVE. Thus, such power plants can be expanded without extensive and time-consuming concession treatment. Document No The 8 proposal therefore concerns only concession applications where there is evidence of conflict between nature, environment, landscape protection and/or outdoor interests. In order to further improve the efficiency of concession treatment, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has now consulted on proposals for technical guidelines for the preparation of county plans for the construction of small-scale power plants. Such a plan is a good tool for improving the efficiency of concession treatment. In addition, the Ministry is in the process of assessing whether it may be appropriate to delegate the competence to the municipalities to take decisions on the obligation to grant a concession to micro and mini-power plants. Furthermore, I refer to St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, the budget proposal, where the Government strengthens the NVE budget by 14.4 million. kr. The increase shall include, inter alia: to strengthen procedural capacity, an increase in watercourse and energy managers has estimated up to 10 additional procedural years. On the part of the red-green parties, we will stress the importance of the wide and solid competence of the concession authority in both hydrology, the environment, landscape aesthetics, safety and energy conditions. It will be difficult, if not impossible, for each municipality to hold this kind of competence. When the proposers claim that the local concession authority will increase the local autonomy, the Right-wing Representatives forget that the local government has today a great opportunity to influence the concession decision. The local authorities deal with all the concession cases before a decision is taken and the concession authority has a long tradition of emphasising the position of local authorities. The reasons given by the majority for not delegating the concession authority for small-scale power stations to the municipalities are due to sound and consistent procedures. The majority suggested that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1392	The Progress Party is very surprised that the Government opposes the delegation of concession authority from the NVE to the individual municipality for the development of micro, mini and small power plants of up to 3 MW installed capacity. It is incomprehensible that the Central Party, which usually speaks hot for local self-government, cannot take part in this proposal. In view of both the increasingly strenuous power situation in Norway and the long waiting time for this category of small hydropower plants, the Government should in fact be much more concerned with assessing all good solutions to facilitate increased production capacity. In this context, the Party considers that there is now a clear need for immediate action to shorten this long process period, which has thus arisen at NVE in the case of micro, mini and small power plants. The work of shortening that period of procedure must be given very high priority, and of course a good instrument would be to support the present proposal to delegate the concession authority for small hydroelectric installations to each municipality. A trial period of up to five years combined with the unpleasant fact that we are now facing an increasingly strenuous force situation in Norway is totally unsustainable, and the government can no longer just sit and look at this difficult situation. Therefore, municipalities should be delegated to the concession authority, i.e. the concession authority that the NVE currently has, in this type of case. There is little reason to doubt the competence of municipalities in this area. The Progress Party has great respect for the municipal self-government and also has confidence that the individual municipality itself is able to grant authorisation, or refuse authorisation, for the development of micro, mini and small power plants up to 3 MW installed capacity. In fact, the Progress Party believes that the individual municipality itself has the best assumptions to assess whether the development of small hydroelectric power stations would be of significant damage or disadvantage to the general interest in these types of cases. We feel that it is urgent to strengthen the balance of power and to improve security of supply, and we believe it is important to increase domestic production capacity by stimulating increased development, among other things. small hydropower plants, as mentioned in this case. Increased expansion of several small hydropower plants is sensible, both because the expansion of such hydropower plants in total can make an important contribution to power, and it is not unrealistic to assume that there may be a power contribution of 10 TWh. This can also be developed over a relatively short period of time. However, the progress party goes a little further than the proposal from the Right. We will not set a limit at 1 MW installed capacity, as the intention in the proposal is. We want to set a limit of 3 MW, which includes some small power plants. We believe it is an advantage that municipalities can be delegated to the concession authority for hydropower development, micro- and mini-power plants, and, as I said, also for small power projects of up to 3 MW. At the same time, the Progress Party encourages proposals to introduce clear time limits for proceedings. We want the builders of micro, mini and small power plants to receive answers to their applications in relation to the provisions that apply to construction works under the Law on Planning and Building, so that you know what you have to deal with. The authorities may then work a little faster on this type of issue, so that the waiting time is reduced. In addition to what I have said on behalf of the Progress Party, and what is stated in the proposal itself, I will now just deal with the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved and which have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1413	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1416	The size has been quite good at stimulating promoters – landowners, Building Norway and farmers – to invest in the development of micro and mini-power plants and also small-scale power plants, which do not fall within the scope of the Right’s proposal in this context. But that's the follow-up! Here we have seen that, in this case too, as in the previous two, it fails to facilitate progress in development, satisfy the market's underbalance and in terms of the need to develop new renewable energy. Open eyes are disregarded by the fact that NVE has become a bottleneck in the process of dealing with these small projects, which are often seen to be covered by the same nitite procedure as major development projects. Taking this into account, it is a very disappointing conclusion that the government parties are now falling into today's debate. I find it difficult to understand that the Council of State can be comfortable with the conclusion drawn in this matter. Although the Council of State in its letter to the Committee refers to a consultation process, it is not possible to interpret what is black in white in comments and in the vote, and the result of voting today, other than that the final conclusion has been drawn. It is then concluded that this is too complicated for local government to be able to handle it. This has to do with due process. Although the Workers' Party, SV and the centre party people at any building meeting, on any cooperative ladder, are good at standing up and saying that we should have decisions from below and up in this society, the decision on a mini-power plant, a micro-power plant, a tiny small mill house – these «micro-positions», «micro-researches» – must therefore be made in Oslo, not at the local level, for the reasons stated in the Red-Green remarks, «responsible case-handling». I can't understand how the council can be comfortable with the red-green parties on the Stortinget making such decisions that you put up today. It also states that ‘if the measure may be indicative of damage or disadvantage to the general interest, it is compulsory to grant a concession’. Yeah, that's very, very good. But if these disadvantages are to be assessed, who is closer to doing it than just those who live there and are going to make decisions on behalf of the local population, i.e. those who sit in the local elected bodies? No then, these decisions on micro and mini-power plants must also enter Oslo! New bottlenecks are emerging in the NVE, which in turn has new tasks that are much more extensive and important than this. It's no wonder that we have a situation where many of those who have equity, with ideas – farmers and villagers, that is, people who live in Foreign Norway, and who have opportunities to develop new renewable energy – now put these plans away. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he will add up and contribute to a more flexible implementation, so that we – we agree on the possibilities, the potential of these issues – can have a simpler procedure. If such an initiative is not taken by the Council of State, Mr Bygde-Norway again misses opportunities. You get to know what the red-greens are, but for the third time today, you don't know what the red-greens are for. That's why the Buildings of Norway depopulated. Therefore, Building-Norway, District Norway and agriculture have fewer opportunities to increase incomes. This should not be the case if you have both the energy situation and the regional development in the back of your mind. Then I'll take up the Right suggestion, which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1439	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1442	Power from micro and mini-power plants provides valuable, environmentally friendly energy and is a good revenue for many landowners. When environmental considerations are taken into account, these are good environmental policies. Micro- and mini-power plants are actually a good Kinder Egg. The present case is about delegating the concession authority for the micro and mini-power plants to the individual municipality. The Christian People's Party believes in principle that decisions should be made as close as possible to the case. Therefore, good competence and proximity are interrelated. At the same time, it's important that we always see the whole thing. Many watercourses are located in different municipalities. Seeing the watercourse as a whole, as I see it, will be important, so that we also see different expansions together. For the builders, processing time is important. That's also for us. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal that deadlines should be introduced for dealing with these matters, in line with what is stated in the Planning and Building Act. When we talk about processing time, I am also concerned that we should have a proper procedure. On one of my many municipal visits this fall, I have met a number of mini- and micro-power builders who have started or who have ideas and thoughts about doing so. These are landowners and farmers with great ability to stand on. It is necessary when a reader reads the NVE's detailed comments on the quality assurances of different concession applications. Things have to be right, things have to be exact. However, it should not be the case in 2006 that landowners have to seek the help of consultants in order to prepare concession applications, as recommended by these landowners. It must be allowed to ask yourself the question also in difficult matters, whether one should make them as difficult as one has now made them look at what needs to be documented. The Government calls for an assessment of the appropriateness of delegating the competence to take decisions on whether micro and mini-power plants should be subject to concession. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the completion of this investigation. As the Christian People's Party sees it, it is important that the steps we take in this area now are holistic. We therefore believe that any delegation of the concession authority under the Water Resource Act should be seen in the context of the environmental and resource management envisaged in the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1457	It is of great interest to build and operate mini and micro power plants throughout the country. An overall increase has also provided incentives to stimulate such expansion, although the renewable energy support regime now presented to the Government is so much lower than the green certificate scheme that one might wonder if one of these has intended to contribute to the development of renewable energy, including small power plants. The left is in favour of many of the projects currently planned. They may be carried out without significant adverse effects. It is true that although we have said no to several large hydroelectric power plants, there are great opportunities for mini-, micro- and small-scale power plants and also for upgrading existing plants. These possibilities should be put into effect because they can reinvigorate and should be put into service because they can contribute to the positive stimulation of local communities, not least in District Norway. It is also a good business policy. I think it is positive that we are now working on state plans to see the relationship between individual small-scale projects. It will contribute to a whole that strengthens the decision-making base. We know that many of those working on such projects experience that they have a long duration of treatment — too long in many cases. Therefore, it is important to help reduce the duration of treatment, and it can be done by strengthening the NVE’s capacity. The projects which may be detrimental to or detrimental to the general interest are subject to concession. That's the way it should be. The projects which are not subject to concession can already be dealt with by the municipalities today. The left is against, as proposed, delegating the decision in all the projects concerned to the municipalities. There are some that should be considered in a wider context. I record that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in a letter to the Committee says that it is considered to delegate the decision on what matters should be subject to concession to the municipalities, and we await the assessment of the Government there. The left supports the principle that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. However, it is also important in some contexts to take overall environmental and spatial considerations into account. Such assessments belong in a number of cases in a more general body. However, the left is open to assess, as shown in our joint remark with the Christian People's Party, whether these tasks should be assigned to the regional level. We believe that it should be natural for the Government to include this in that assessment in the current discussion of future regions and the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1472	The government wants to help us extract the potential of developing small hydropower plants, and is therefore concerned with a smooth but sound process. The municipalities are already treating a number of micro- and mini-power plants as construction products under the Planning and Building Act. This applies to power plants which have such minor effects that they do not trigger the concession obligation under the Water Resource Act. Moreover, as I have explained earlier in the Stortinget, a number of measures have been implemented to improve the effectiveness of NVE concession treatment. NVE has the last year, among others. improved the availability of streamlined information to policy-makers by providing guidance material and application templates on the Internet. Internal procedures are also subject to continuous efficiency improvement. The 2007 government budget provides for the NVE to give priority to concession treatment and security of supply-related work. NVE will increase treatment capacity by up to 10 years. This means strengthening the procedural capacity of power generation plants. Although I consider it important to streamline and simplify the procedure, it is also important to ensure that the concession treatment is done in a proper manner. Intervention in watercourses can have significant effects. This also applies to the development of micro, mini and small power plants. Broad competences and experience in hydrology, the environment, landscape aesthetics, safety and economics are therefore important. We need to be sure that the decisions taken will be taken afterwards and that important environmental values will not be lost. The impact of small hydropower plants on the environment depends, for example, on: location and how the individual project is adapted to the conditions on site. The overall impact of small hydropower plants also depends on the overall extent of expansion within a geographical area or region. This suggests that intervention should be considered in an overall perspective and not be confined to the municipal boundaries of the municipality of measure. Concession treatment, as it is currently being implemented, promotes equal treatment across local borders and ensures that consideration of the overall most favourable use of resources is assessed. Municipalities are very central as a significant consultative body during the concessional process. Proposals are also made for time-limits for the processing of small-scale power stations, as laid down in the Building and Planning Act. To that end, the quality of applications received by the NVE may vary considerably, and in many cases there will be a need to ask for additional investigations in order to have the consequences adequately investigated. Inspection and any additional investigation requirements must also be carried out at the appropriate time of the year in order to provide satisfactory information. This means that the duration of treatment can naturally vary considerably. In the course of concessional treatment, it may be appropriate to make some major changes to the project, which may also increase the overall duration of treatment. What can be perceived as long-term treatment is often caused by ratios to ensure optimal use of the small power potential. Finding the best projects is done not only for environmental reasons but also for the sake of power generation. For this reason, I do not support the proposal to introduce time limits for the procedure. The NVE is, of course, obliged, as any administrative body, to provide a preliminary reply and a justification if the examination of the application would take time. The preliminary answer will also, as far as possible, say something about progress, for example when an inspection will be carried out and when final treatment can be expected. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right refer to the NVE’s estimate of the potential at land level of 25 TWh for new generation of power from small power plants. It is important to stress that this is a theoretical potential, calculated on the basis of a GIS mapping that does not take into account either environmental effects, user conflicts, property, network connectivity or network capacity constraints. This is therefore an overestimate of how much energy production this type of power plant can be expected to contribute in total. This, of course, does not change the fact that any contribution to improving the power balance is valuable. As it appears from the Committee's setting up, the Ministry is in the process of examining the competence to take decisions in the event of a concession obligation for micro and mini-power plants being delegated from the NVE to the municipalities. Measures considered by the Water Resource Act to be of no appreciable harm or disadvantage to the general good are exempted from the concession obligation. The concession obligation assessment is currently carried out by the NVE regional apparatus and projects which are not subject to concession are treated in the municipalities as construction works under the Planning and Building Act. Over the period 2001–2005, around 300 projects were considered not to be subject to concession and were thus treated in the municipalities. So this is equal to three out of four projects. Such a delegation will relieve the concession authorities of a substantial amount of proceedings prior to the concession treatment itself of the projects covered by the concession obligation. On the other hand, municipalities may of course conflict with the need for an overall assessment of interventions across municipal boundaries, as the majority of the Committee points out in the vote. The Ministry is now examining the effects of this measure and will come back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1497	It is only to be noted that the government here, as in the previous two cases, acts as a brake on all good measures that can create new required electrical energy generation capacity in Norway. The party of progress is very disappointed with this. With regard to the intention of this proposal, to delegate the concession authority to the municipalities, the Progress Party considers it a very good proposal. We have also made some additional proposals that further strengthen the good intentions. What was so characteristic of the posts of the Council of State was a kind of mistrust of the level of competence of municipalities in dealing with this type of procedure. Then my question is, why in the world is the Council of State so sceptical about the competence of local authorities to deal with these issues, which this proposal involves?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1506	First of all, as has been said, we are in the process of exploring the possibility for municipalities to decide whether there is a concession obligation or not. I think it has to be recognized that the scope of these expansions is very different. In the last five years, the municipalities have actually dealt with three out of four applications for the Planning and Building Act, as I said in my post. So it suggests that the municipalities are dealing with a large number of the issues that exist. And if – I stress if – the municipalities are also responsible for assessing whether there is a concession obligation or not, we have made a comprehensive delegation. Nor should the representative forget that there are wide-ranging appeals, so that cases are dealt with locally and may be appealed, and the next instance needs to be at a higher level of administration, may also involve significant delays in cases. Today, however, municipalities deal with a large number of these matters under the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1513	When the Right talks about the total potential of either 25 TWh small power plants or 10 TWh micro and mini-power plants, the numbers are of course taken from the authoritative team and are a theoretical estimate, but I would have thought that we agreed that micro and mini-power plants were a great potential for the development of new renewable energy, and also an opportunity for increased revenue for Building Norway. Then I wonder if the Council of State does not agree that long processing times, bottlenecks that we have and that are developing now, are a strong brake to achieve the goals we have all set. So I'm recording that the Center Party, in many ways understandable enough, chooses to escape from the staging room when we deal with this question. I do not know if it is in frontier countries to ask an ex-centre party leader if it has now become such in the Central Party that it is believed that the common sense has left the countryside, while matters relating to micro- and mini-power plants, at this level have to be pushed down to the capital for so-called responsible proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1520	We agree that there is a great potential for building mini, micro and small power plants. We agree that a long procedure period is unfortunate, and we do what we can to avoid it, for example. by strengthening the process capacity of the NVE. Yes, we agree that the wit is fairly similar in this country, and therefore the municipalities are already dealing with three out of four applications under the Planning and Building Act. These are the few cases decided on as concession cases. Today, the NVE decides whether a case is compulsory or not, but we have, as I have already said, started an investigation to see if it can also be delegated to the municipalities, and we will come back to that. This should be satisfactory, also based on the wishes expressed by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1527	I'm going to ask a simple question that I hope the Council of State can simply answer, so we don't pull out this debate anymore. The question arises as to whether the Council of State agrees that the delegation under the Watercourse Act should be a theme of the notified Landfill Communication on Regional Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1532	This is also one of the relationships that we want to look at. As for the investigation we are now conducting, to delegate responsibility to the municipalities in relation to the assessment of the concession obligation, we will, of course, contact the organisations in the municipal sector to hear their views before deciding on it. In that assessment, we will also focus on pending changes in regional management, as the representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1537	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1542	I take the floor because I heard the spokeswoman of the Labour Party in the previous case saying that it was unnecessary with long observations because the conclusions were nevertheless contained in the Soria Moria declaration. When I read the short, laconic comment that you have in this case, that the municipalities are not able to submit to issues relating to the development of power, a proper procedure, I found reason to see in the Soria Moria Declaration what the role of the municipalities is. I quote: ‘The role of communities as social developers shall be strengthened. The municipalities with their broad social responsibility are most important in people's everyday lives and therefore most important in building fundamental legitimacy to political democracy.» I'm going to save the present representatives of the government parties to quote more from the Soria Moria statement. That the Central Party has no representative present, other than the Council of State, I think maybe there's a connection with this. Every day around the country there is a well-managed treatment of very important issues – planning and land-use matters and regulatory matters – with good results. Therefore, it was so reassuring to hear the Council of State say that he still believes that the wit is fairly evenly distributed in this country. But in the practical work he doesn't take very much into account that. Now you might think that this was an isolated matter when it comes to power building, but I actually don't think so. We don't have the big power building stuff in my county, Westfold. In return, we have many major regulatory issues in the beach zone, which is an area that concerns many people. And there is a tendency – there have been a few major issues in Westfold where the proceedings are carried out in a very normal way in local governments, through county councils and county councils, and where the government now finds opportunity to intervene. It means that the words of Soria Moria don't mean anything to the world. It's like the representative Ivar Kristiansen said earlier here today, that you want to make even more decisions from the village and into the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1558	There is something strangely contradictory about one government and one central government council, claiming to be the best friend in the districts, when the districts experience one downhill after the other – and that is so unnecessary. But this at the same time reveals the considerable distance there is between great words and the ability and will of action. The central party, which takes the aim of being the defender of local democracy, acts here as one of the worst centralists, expressing a distrust of local politicians who are both perceptive and incomprehensible. 14 days ago, I met the rapporteurs in Nord-Troms – most of them red-green. One of the things they had on their agenda was power development, and they greatly complained about applications for small power plants, mini- and micro-power plants – which were left untreated by the NVE for years. Here we are talking about an economically weak region that the government would really try to meet. I have previously challenged the Minister of Agriculture to engage in the organisation of nature-based travel in the Reisa National Park and the Landscaping Areas in Lyngen – without response. When the Right now challenges another central party council, the oil and energy minister, to facilitate the implementation of local plans for small-scale development, yes, this initiative is also met with indifference and rejected by the government parties. The rapporteurs of the Nord-Troms sincerely wonder whether the government will really be a co-player, or whether it will be a counter-player for people who want to bet and live in the districts. There's been a lot of talk about lighting in the houses along the coast. There is also a desire for local initiatives in North-Troms to start small-scale power generation. Small-scale power generation, as many have been involved here, is a sensible energy policy, and it is a sensible district policy. Therefore, it is with great wonder that we from the Right only have to note that the red-green parties use all their energy to suppress this proposal. The Council of State was concerned that environmental values could be lost, but in Nord-Troms there is actually talk of housing being lost. So we are talking about small power plants – micro and mini-power plants – but I hear that the Minister of Oil and Energy is talking about the expansion of Alta power plant size to local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1571	The case of delegation of concession authority for mini- and micro-power plants is one of the small building blocks that point to how our society is to evolve. Do you believe in a society that is built from below and up, or is it the opposite? The center part gives the impression of striving violently to find tasks that can be sent down into the system, but when the obvious possibilities appear, you say no. The love of local democracy disappeared abruptly when it could be taken seriously. "I promise nothing, and I will keep that promise," is a formerly very hard politician quoted. The centre party reprints this to: «We promise a lot, but we have little intention of holding». Reading the majority position in this case is like looking for excuses to not give local democracy influence over its own resources. Here the bureaucratic approach is dominant. After all, a bureaucracy will not give up tasks on a voluntary basis. It will immediately find arguments as to why bureaucracy needs to grow. The centre party kneels for this argument with its rejection of this proposal! Instead of saying that we trust that most communities have an interest in developing their resource base in a sound manner, they are kept away from responsibility by referring to the ‘respect of sound procedures’. There is no believer in a case where we look at interventions that are small and little conflict-filled in most cases. Norwegian agriculture has a huge challenge in finding new income opportunities. Here's a candy bar. Exploitation of small power offers opportunities for good profitability and can provide large investments and a lot of activity in District Norway. In addition, agriculture can improve its image by contributing to the resolution of a pressured national power situation. This possibility should be embraced. Instead, it is hampered by late action and lack of bureaucratic capacity. The fact that the centre party does not see the possibility of reducing the number of cases through bureaucracy in such a situation is quite eloquent for the party's thinking at the moment. When it comes to practical policies, local self-government is not quite a believer. The right will focus on the potential for increased deployment of small-scale power generation in districts, both locally and not least in order to ensure electricity supply. We are therefore proposing a package of measures to exempt the smallest projects from excessive procedures, to strengthen procedural capacity and to strengthen the profitability of small businesses through changes in the tax system. This is forward-looking policy. It can open up active, spread owner environments locally that develop local resources. It's taking District Norway seriously – not only in words, as the Center Party does, but also in practical politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1586	It is sad to note that the red-green majority rejects enough the possibility of giving a majority for an offensive action in energy policy. It stays in words, not action. The government has promised very much, but has delivered very little. That's what many people have said before, and that's equally true for every man who says it. The renewable effort of time, e.g., ended with a big message on poor four pages. The problem when addressing renewable efforts is often due to the fact that it has to do with small power plants. It's a problem initially, at least it's my conclusion, because it's about green certificates. From the first day with a red-green government, there was a dispute between the Central Party and the Socialist Left on what the Soria Moria Declaration actually said about small power plants. Hallgeir Langeland was out in a series of media and said that it was no longer to be built here, while Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party thought that there opened the Soria Moria Declaration to lots of small power plants. Such a different interpretation of the Soria Moria statement was probably the reason why one could not participate in a scheme of green certificates with Sweden, because it opens up large-scale small-scale power plants. So we've come up with a problem where small-scale power plants are damaged, where the centre party is kind of turning around in most areas in relation to their attitude towards the opposition. Neither the SV nor the Central Party wanted to speak in this debate, and it probably illustrates how difficult small-scale power stations are for this government. What is a bit clever to observe, however, is the lack of trust that government parties show local government in the case of slightly larger small power plants. While the Council of State boasts that three out of four such cases are already being decided locally today, it is therefore impossible for the same companies to make good decisions in the remaining quarter! But we see that they have the expertise that is needed locally to deal with mini and micro power plants. Apply them also to the slightly larger cases! It's just dealing with the same things on a slightly larger scale. The queue at NVE shows that something has to be done. So the Council of State says that he looks at the measures and investigates and is going to come up with things. But I am familiar with what the Council of State has promised similar things, for example. in the case of a mid-Norway action plan, but the plan has still not come to the Stortinget. It is therefore important for the Storting to give signals to the Government that this is what we expect to come, and not do as the red-green parties have done, and just say that we hope something comes, and hope that the Government is actively working on it, for this is important, but we are not going to put any pressure on it. Then the Stortinget will only be a straight vote for the government parties. It is also interesting to record the differences in the reasoning when one in this case indicates that the technical potential for small-scale power plants is not always feasible, while one in the first case that the Committee debated today pointed out that even the small drops in the case of pellets and heat pumps are important in the broad context. So I'll finally give you a little explanation of vote. The Progress Party will substantially support the Right proposal, proposal No. 3, in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1606	I'm not going to try to extend the debate, but when we see that the Right is going high and flagging local democracy in this case, I can't stop going up and correct and saying: Hasn't the Right heard what the Council of State said, that already today three out of four concession applications for small and micro-power plants are being dealt with in the municipalities under the Building Act, and that local democracy is working? Something is being sought when trying to create a local democracy debate and like the philanthropist centre party on the matter that we are dealing with today. I thought everyone in this room was convinced of the excellence of local democracy. After ten years in the rapporteur's chair, I am convinced that the common sense is equally divided. But it has happened that I have been in doubt. I would like to say to the representative of Solvik-Olsen that it is great that the Progress Party is occupied with green certificates. It's great that the Progress Party is talking about NOx and CO2 and that the Advance Party is engaged. Solvik-Olsen will have a great deal of credit for that. But I think, President, that the Stortinget is well served by the representatives sticking closer to the issues on the agenda, rather than opening up to the President that he is constantly allowed to take off in one direction and the other. We've seen that at least today. Finally, I would like to suggest very carefully that if we have debated power and energy saving, I hope that someone who hears this debate can make sure that it gets a little warmer in this room, so we don't sit and freeze during the debates!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1621	The President shall forward the request to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1624	Let me first make a little clarification and underline what I also said in my main post, that in the period 2001–2005 it was about. 300 projects were assessed not to be subject to concession and were therefore dealt with in the municipalities. So this is equal to three out of four projects. It is not that concession cases were dealt with in the municipalities, if I was injured to say so, there were cases that were considered not to be subject to concession. I'm not sure if it's the will or the ability to perceive what I said, which is missing. But I think you're early to conclude on what's going to be the outcome of this case. What I said was that the department is now assessing and assessing whether responsibility can be delegated for deciding whether there is a concession obligation for mini- and micro-power plants, from the NVE to the municipalities. This will mean that the municipalities themselves will decide whether to decide on these matters or whether to deal with them at a higher level of administration. For all practical purposes, I actually thought that it was what the representatives from the Right also wanted the municipalities to have that opportunity. So we're doing that investigation, and that case will come with time and times. With that, I suppose this should be fairly clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1633	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 813]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1641	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1649	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats and of the Right-wing motion for a resolution No. 2, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1674	The proposal from the Left reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case that opens up the advertising of life views and political messages in all media, including proposals for regulations ensuring freedom of expression.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they wish to support the proposal of the Left Subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1702	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate work on a widely-rooted Norwegian cultural canon.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1727	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1752	The proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to design a support scheme that includes clean wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps in a temporary support scheme to increase power savings in Norwegian households. The scheme shall be evaluated on an ongoing basis and at least once a year in the context of the State budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1841	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats and of the Right, no. 2, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1866	The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to hold a referendum on the protection or development of Wefsna in the municipalities of Wefsn, Grane, Hattfjelldal and Hemne after the impact assessment has been completed.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1879	To the vote: The right-wing group will vote against both the motion for a resolution and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox So I think this must be a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1886	Then we do it so that the right can vote as they want. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1900	It is then voted over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1915	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 3, from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1943	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose setting clear time limits for the procedure and replies to applications for the development of micro, mini and small power plants, and to propose penalties in the event of failure to comply with the time limits set.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1958	The proposal from the Right reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to delegate to each municipality the concession authority for all power plants up to 1 MW.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to support the proposal of the Right Subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30.ana.ud1837e1989	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
