ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e57	The application for sick leave for the representative of Per Sandberg was received from the Advance Party Group on 15 December and until further notice. Following a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The application will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The Vara representative, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e75	Hanne Dyveke Sweets is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e89	The Financial Committee has provided a comprehensive financial position, providing the essential and necessary clarifications regarding the general economic policy, in which both the Government Party clarifies its positions and the four opposition parties make their views known and take up their proposals. The financial situation has also clarified the economic framework for the various policy areas, and this framework is both binding and therefore governing for all the sectoral budgets covered by the other sectoral committees. The financial framework is also defined for Framework Area 21, such as for export guarantees, etc., for Framework Area 22, such as for the financial administration, some themes of the Ministry of Finance, some guarantees under the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, 90 items under the State budget, Chapters indebted to transfers to or from the State pension fund – Foreign, and Power to raise government loans. The attitude that we are now debating covers all these matters which I am just mentioning. Of course, the parties have different financial frameworks for these large budget lines, and the opposition party also has a different arrangement in many of these fields than the government has proposed. It is presented by the configurations of the Financial Committee, the Budgetary Section. S. I and Budget-in. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox The rule in the setting we are currently considering is that there is no argument for a proprietary arrangement and against the government proposal, with reference to the clarification made by the financial institution. This is the safe practice for in Stortinget. The setting indicates that there is a broad connection to the scheme that the Government has presented to many of the promise proposals that we are talking about here, and that is a connection to the Government's overall arrangement in all areas. On the other hand, there are divergent proposals in some fields, and we see that in particular in the contributions and proposals from the Progress Party. In this context, I would like to point out that the Progress Party proposes to reduce the credit supervisory fees, they propose to reduce the fees to the Customs and Fee Set, and also to reduce the operating budget fees to the Ministry of Finance. I'll stop a little bit special about that. When the Progress Party proposes, in its alternative budget, to reduce the expenditure chapter towards the customs and levy rate, the tax rate and the central government collection centre by 10 p.m., this will be reduced to operating costs. In addition, when it comes to the tariff and tax rate, one has a reduction. I think it's a proposal and a saving that's unrealistic, and I'd like to take a look at the consequences of this proposal. Today it is such that approx. 65 pst. the operational budget of the budgets consists of means of remuneration. The remaining 35 pst. is then the purchase of goods and services. Then it is not possible to reduce these operating costs in the short term, as much of the costs are tied up over a longer period. In practice, that probably means that at least 75 pst. by the Progress Party's reductions must be made in wage costs, and this will necessarily imply a stoppage and significant redundancies, in addition to the fact that a small part can obtain a natural take-off if the Progress Party's arrangements are agreed. I think I have to say it as it is. The progress of the party’s draft budget in this area will lead to the removal of more than 500 settings in the customs and levy rates, the removal of more than 700 settings in the tax rate, and the removal of 40 settings at the central government collection centre. These are conservative estimates. I would also like to point out that this will primarily involve a significant reduction in control activities, and the etats will, among other things. have serious difficulties in achieving the objective of ensuring the correct establishment of taxes and charges, including the coverage of tax evasion and other financial crime. The customs duty and levy rate of its work on preventing the illegal introduction of goods, including border controls, will also be significantly reduced, with the inconspicuous damage this must have. I would like to say this: the impact of the Progress Party's proposals on these areas is in stark contrast to the views expressed by the same party several times during the autumn budgetary procedure. It is also the case that the Progress Party has several other proposals for reduced permissions in relation to what the Government has proposed. It shall apply, inter alia, to: reduced permissions to State Economic Management Centres, to give another concrete example. I will also be allowed to stop a little at another point, where there is a little bit of aberration in the Committee, and that applies to the Research and Innovation Fund. There's no doubt about the size of the fund capital. The governing party will raise this capital by NOK 10 billion, so that the total capital will be NOK 60 billion. The Progress Party and the Right will raise the fund's capital by DKK 25 billion in addition to the Government's proposal, while the Christian People's Party will strengthen the fund's capital by DKK 15 billion, and the Left believes that the fund's capital must increase by DKK 40 billion. When it comes to Norwegian cultural memory funds, today the image is such that the fund has a capital of 800 million. kr. The government proposes to raise the capital by 200 million. kr for the following year, and a broad majority in the Financial Committee agrees to this. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have quadrupled their aberrant proposal at this point. In addition to the points I have mentioned here, in some areas there are a number of minority proposals in the configuration, but in most cases it is the Progress Party that stands for the divergent proposals. Finally, I will be allowed to recommend the recommendation of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e125	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Sandal, for spending so many minutes on the alternative proposals of the Progress Party. We appreciate that, and I encourage others in the hall to also spend a lot of time on the Progress Party – I also intend to do that. The Progress Party is concerned about the growth of the public sector, not because we believe that public sector employees are not doing a good job, which probably someone is going to say here later today – so we don't think so – but because there are no incentives for rationalising or streamlining operations. While private sector employees have as their starting point money to strengthen the company's bottom line, public agencies have the opposite starting point. Public agencies shall use up their annual appropriations and are often rewarded with even higher appropriations if this objective is achieved. In many public agencies, therefore, we get a rush of acquisitions and measures just beyond Christmas, which in several departments has been renamed the ‘Christmas Trade’. I've been on it myself. We all want a more efficient and measurable public sector, and the Progress Party therefore believes that the public sector needs to be managed less on the basis of appropriations and to a greater extent guided by results. The Progress Party notes that the previous governments and the current government are implementing and implementing reorganisations and efficiency measures. However, unfortunately, the efficiency gains are lacking, while the number of employees is increasing steadily. As long as we have today's budgetary system, the Progress Party will continue to propose cost cuts in public operation and administration, understanding that this is the only option that politicians have forcing efficiency and necessary priorities. The Progress Party believes that the costs of operating the public sector require fundamental respect and understanding for the fact that the money used actually belongs to others. Therefore, increased costs shall always be assessed from such a perspective. And I have to replicate to the representative Sandal when I hear him say that 65 pst. is made up of wage and salary costs and 35 pst. goes to acquisitions and other purposes, that it is right now that we have so good times in the private sector that we can get people out of the public sector and into the private sector. It is not time when there are bad times in the private sector. Today we need labour; it is right now that we should streamline and rationalise the public sector and get people out in the private sector and bake a larger, common cake in the private sector, which ultimately generates revenue to the public. Based on the above, the Progress Party proposes that the budget for Framework Area 22 be reduced by 848 million. kr. In this area, I would like to highlight three budget lines in particular. The Progress Party is not surprised that Norway’s complex and comprehensive charging system contributes to an ever-increasing workload for the customs and tax haven. In contrast to the other parties, however, we do not believe that the solution to this challenge is constantly to increase the allocation of the budget, but rather a review of the customs and tax rules with a view to simplifying users, increasing the use of electronic solutions, while fully implementing the etatate risk analysis procedures, and not least reducing the fees on goods that delay the Nordics to travel on a trade trip to Sweden. This in itself will reduce the need for resources to the department. However, we stress that border control – I repeat border control, also to the representative Sandal – should be given priority in order to combat organised crime and drug trafficking. The Progress Party is very critical of the ever-increasing role envisaged by the State Financial Management Centre – SSE. We have doubts as to whether the SEA is a useful tool for achieving more efficient resource management and better accounting in state-owned businesses. Our doubts are due, among other things, to: that the number of observations from the National Audit Office has not been reduced during the Centre’s lifetime, giving an indication of the Centre’s suitability and effectiveness. The Executive Party also finds that the activities of the SEA are in competition with private financial advice and considers it alarming that the Centre is only used selectively, despite the fact that in many cases the services are offered free of charge to the user. The Progress Party also records that the SSØ has a high number of employees and that they are deployed on a large geographical scale. We have doubts as to whether such geographical distribution is appropriate and effective. The Progress Party is also sceptical about the Government's proposal for a new structure of complaints and complaints in the tax system. For the Progress Party, it is essential that taxpayers have a real opportunity to complain about tax decisions. The Party considers that the proposed changes may lead to a reduction in legal certainty for the individual taxpayer. In particular, we are sceptical about the proposal to impose specific requirements on formal education to a majority of the members of the complainants, which deprive doctors of the possibility of discretionary judgement, as the system today emphasises. The Progress Party will therefore ask the Government to assess this change separately and to promote its own proposal in the vote. Furthermore, in the context of the reorganisation of the tax rate, the Progress Party considers that the Government should consider whether municipal tax collection should also take over the collection of VAT. This may result in higher levels of solution, improved customer care and reduced resource use. The reason for the overall decline in resource use is that the activities subject to VAT are already ‘customers’ in tax collection. The savings of the State tax offices by the full transfer of VAT to municipalities will be significantly higher than the marginal additional costs that the municipal tax collectors will experience when the number of tax types for which they are responsible increases from five to six. The Progress Party also considers that a transfer of VAT collection to municipalities may be necessary for legal certainty reasons. Already at Stortingen's treatment of the tax payment scheme in 1951 – Ot.prp. Paragraph 17 – a principle of legal certainty that the determination and collection of taxes should not be done on the same basis was shattered. This has been confirmed in due course. the treatment by the Storting of the organisation of the Equation Court in the 1960s and in the context of the NOU 1993:1 on the reorganisation of the tax system. Therefore, in the vote, the Progress Party proposes that the Government assess whether the responsibility for the collection of VAT should be transferred to the municipal tax collection offices. Finally, I would like to point out the government's urgency in proposing a reversed VAT system for imports into the business world. The government's summer meal in this case costs taxpayers nearly 100 million. kr annually, while saving for business will be more than 230 million. kr annually. Unfortunately, this case shows that respect for people’s earnings – because that is exactly what the state actually spends – and the profitability of business is not very high in today’s government. I take this into account all the proposals in the position which the Party of Presidents is promoting alone or in conjunction with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e171	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e174	I see no reason to have any reprisals of the financial debate today. I just want to refer to the Right article in the financial debate and to the vote. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e181	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e184	I intend to keep a little longer post than Jan Tore Sanner and a little shorter than Tybring-Gjedde. I think there are a few things in our budget that are so good that it deserves to be mentioned, and something in the proposals from the other parties that are so bad that it deserves to be mentioned. What I think is good, and as I think it is important to stress, is that the government has both listened to what is happening in society, and at the same time demonstrated the ability to take some good action in relation to the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit. We have been able to increase the guarantee schemes that lie there, thus better facilitating trade in, among other things. developing countries by increasing the credit opportunities that lie there, and we have improved the possibilities for Norwegian business to export abroad through the guarantee schemes that are there. Our government is the first government to set aside money for the purchase of climate allowances. I think that is important to stress today. It did not have a central place in the financial debate. It was mentioned in the environmental debate. I think it's important to say it today, because this is the Minister of Finance's table. Our finance minister has shown here that she is the first finance minister who has taken proper action to meet that part of our Kyoto commitments. I noticed that the Left has aged its budget. They write that they will wait for the sector-wide climate action plans before returning with money. I think it seems very easy on the Left side, because the Left clearly says that they have not intended to meet all the climate commitments that we have in Norway under the Kyoto Protocol. They're going to do part of this through the purchase of climate allowances. But they didn't have the money to prioritize the environment in that area in the budget this year, i.e. the purchase of climate allowances, and would rather await the sectoral climate action plans. On the other hand, they promise to return to this in the revised national budget. Yes, then we'll be waiting to see if Lars Sponheim and Left have better advice in the revised national budget than they have now. They don't have to, because we're going to make sure that money's in place now. So this is a pretty straightforward way for Lars Sponheim and the Left to get away from this. Then I would like to refer to the reorganisation that takes place in the tax rate, which is very important. The fact that we get a reorganization and get more resources to do control activities is very important. I would also like to stress the work we are doing now to ensure that the aid lawyer system is strengthened, which hopefully enables us to carry out more cases of economic crime, black work and tax evasion in general. Just to say it, I'm very surprised at the Advancement Party. I'm surprised that they propose as dramatic a cut in the tax rate subsidy as they do. It is simply for one reason, and it is that for every person who reduces taxes in this country, other people and businessmen in this country have to pay more taxes to finance the same parts of the public sector. Similarly, it weakens the ability of decent enterprises that operate in a serious way to compete with unprofessional operators. That's why I don't understand that a party like the Progress Party, which says they're busy with tax relief to people, doesn't understand how important it is to make sure that everyone pays taxes here in the country. There is no doubt that the cuts proposed by the Progress Party would lead to poorer control activities from the tax haven and the customs tariff. There is no doubt that this means that in order to maintain the same level of well-being in this country, we other people who pay taxes decently and properly have to pay more. It is party policy that does not go hand in hand, and I would warn against the policies of the Progress Party in this area, and ask the Progress Party to work through that part of its policy to see the consequences of the policies they are pursuing. All in all, this is an area on which there will be relatively little debate compared to very many other tasks. I think we have to follow developments closely. Even I'm a representative from Oslo. Many people here say that they see that the work done by the tax haven by exposing tax evasion and snooping both within the car industry and within the taxi industry leads to a dramatic increase in the reported turnover after the control has been carried out, which clearly indicates that it is important to strengthen the tax rate and not, as the Progress Party does, weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e203	We have had both the tax debate and the financial debate, so I will limit myself in my comments. It is here in this debate that we will also later adopt the size of the funds we have. I'm just going to say that from the Christian People's Party we show our priority by strengthening both the Cultural Memory Fund, the Energy Fund and the Research Fund, as suggested by our proposals. As for the timing of the debate on the tax and customs system, and how much control one should have and should not have, and that the representative Holmås was surprised at the attitude of the Progress Party, I would say that my surprise is that the SV is still surprised by the position of the Progress Party in that area. I think the Progress Party has been opposed to no surprising consistent position in this area. They're consistent, and we disagree, and at least that's for me no longer a surprise. That it has the consequences that the representative Holmås had, I fully support him in, and therefore we have strengthened the aforementioned offices in our alternative budget. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e214	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e217	In St. prp. No 1 chapter 2, which we are now discussing, sets out priority tasks in 2007 by the Ministry of Finance. The implementation of international obligations and the modernisation and updating of financial market legislation is such a priority. In this context, it is a major challenge for us as authorities to meet the strong growth in the spread of the form of enterprise Norsk Department of Foreign Enterprises, the so-called NUF. Today there are very different framework conditions for this type of company and ordinary Norwegian non-listed limited liability companies. It is very important that the Ministry of Finance and the Government take a closer look at this theme in order to ensure a greater degree of national governance of the framework conditions. This work must be combined with a priority effort to combat tax evasion and other financial crime. Therefore, it is gratifying that we are given broad publicity about the tax collection and tax rate that we see here. What the Committee's chairman, Mr Sandal, has said shows that the policy of the Progress Party is so weak that it will play a fundamental role in removing the basis from a tax rate that is absolutely necessary for us to pursue the strong consolidation of our fiscal policy. Another priority is the purchase of climate allowances. Climate and pollution issues are a huge challenge, and it is pleased and very well received in the population that the Government has high ambitions in this area. The high ambitions need to be combined with an active eye in order to continue, yes, to strengthen an all-round business, and that is a very demanding task. The main challenge in relation to climate and pollution issues is the conversion of the energy chains from non-renewable energy sources to renewable energy sources. This requires very large investments. Investments are highly profitable in the long term, but only in the longer term. It involves major changes, requires a lot of skilled labour and is therefore a thematic one that requires a holistic approach. I'm very happy that the Government adds up to it. The 2007 budget provides for a modest purchase of climate allowances. In this respect, I would like to stress what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘The government will ensure that significant parts of Norway’s climate commitments from the Kyoto Agreement take place nationally.’ Climate and pollution challenges are international, but need to be addressed in a concrete local way through the instruments of the nation-state. Buying allowances can be one tool, but much more important, as I said, is a transformation of the energy chains. Electricity production from gas without CO2 emissions is included here as a very important contribution. The most important thing in this setting is what is said about the Renewable Energy Base Fund and energy efficiency improvement. Here we get a start with a budget of 10 billion for 2007. It has been said that there will be a further 10 billion DKK in the 2009 budget. That's a total return of 880 million. kr. While the Progress Party substantially supports the Government's proposal at this point, the Right and Left will have a fight for green certificates. They therefore go against the 10 billion-dollar allocation to what is called the Energy Fund. That the Right is ideologically guided by unilateral market solutions is predictable, but that the Left is so ideologically dogmatic that they even go towards the Energy Fund, is very clarifying. The centre party believes that increased efforts are needed to stimulate the production of renewable energy. For example, the profitability of the production of bio-heat and wind power are areas that need to be improved in order to achieve the energy changes that are absolutely necessary. Finally, the Guarantee Facility for Investments in and Exports to Developing Countries, the U.S.A.: This is an important and useful complement to the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit. It is very gratifying that, in this setting, we can increase the total commitment, so that the liability framework for the developing country scheme increases from SEK 1.5 billion to SEK 2.1 billion without new allocations to the basic fund, because the risk has proven to be lower than previously calculated. This is a useful scheme, which is a lot of use, among other things. in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e244	Many of us have followed the treatment of departmental budgets for many days, both in the daytime and in the evening. Since we've spent a long time discussing partly small dollars, this should have been a debate that we spent a long time discussing. There is a lot of money in the budgets adopted today. There's politics hidden in every corner almost. Today, when the Finance Committee and the Storting decide to have a shorter debate, it's not because you don't see all the policy and the importance of this, but because these are issues that have already been discussed, and certainly are going to be discussed in other contexts, perhaps with a wider audience as well. I would like to refer initially to the case rapporteur, who gave a clear overview of the position we are dealing with today. However, I will be allowed to address some points. I have also been challenged by several. It's nice. I have perhaps also been mentioned as much as the Progress Party so far in this debate. I think, like Tybring-Gjedde, that it's nice for my party to get attention. I'll come back to that. First, I want to give the Minister of Finance a positive encouragement in an area that I think is important. On the basis of the experience gained by me, which is in the opposite direction to that of the Progress Party, it is important that the Minister of Finance dares to give priority to appropriations for his important departments, namely the tax burden and the customs duty rate. I have had experience in some governments that finance ministers are so hurt and difficult when they have to propose cutbacks in the budget of all the other departments, that they are almost not bold enough to propose the necessary crowns to their own budgets. If there's something the country's earned, it's that both the tax rate and the customs budget get the necessary resources to do the important job they do. I want to use this opportunity to give praise to these floors. I would say that I, not only as a wholesaler, but also as a small trader, have experienced a fantastic positive development in recent years towards simplification, not only in the tax haven, but also in the customs and tax haven. We have very well available Internet pages, which make life easier for the users out there. It had not been possible without getting the necessary money to make simplifications. If the budgets are strangled, you have to take it away daily, so you can't take the bigger promises that make life easier. As the architect behind the project that was once called ‘Simplify Norway’, I want to give this rose to both the tax rate and the tax rate. I hope that the Minister of Finance will win by giving them the funds they need in the future, so that they can simplify, for the benefit of businesses and citizens in this country. Then to the two environmental views of the Left in this budget debate. First to Heikki Holmås and climate quotas. Heikki Holmås and SV shall be sure that the Left will prepare for future appropriations in connection with the necessary purchase and use of climate allowances. But I'm afraid that we can have a situation where we get debates on this, where this is promised as the important instrument. I saw last night in a newspaper release that the government – taken after memory – would spend 2.5 million. kr to purchase climate allowances for the government apparatus’s own air travel. It is dangerous to get a good conscience from such measures — put your hand into the treasury and take out such a small amount. I am afraid that the representative Holmås himself of such small things may be ostrich of self-satisfaction at this pulpit. I don't think the environment is worth it. We need to focus on what is important, namely that we need to take a substantial part of the reduction domestically in Norway. I have also seen that the Minister for the Environment has been afraid to use those words. They are usually interpreted as over 50 pst. of the CO2 reductions are to be applied to domestic measures. It costs us politically and will do something about our everyday lives for all of us. Then it must not be that we pay too much attention to it that we can buy allowances abroad with the state's money, with which we have relatively plenty – even if we have to do the same. There I am, although it may be surprising, in and of course agree with what Mr Lundtigen said that it is far more important what we can do domestically. I probably understand a lot less of the representative Lundtigen's visit to the Left when it comes to green certificates. As far as I know, this was the central party's policy both in the election campaign and until they obviously didn't get used to the government's view of using green certificates, which has had a dramatic effect on small-scale power plant development, and we now hear that wind power projects don't have a good economy either. But it's probably more the representative of Lundtägen's personal political position in the landscape, when he calls this a sort of market solution and a blind belief in the market, than it has been the Centre's traditional policy, namely to believe that it must be profitable to do what is environmentally right. There is no doubt that the absence of green certificates and the very poor substitution called energy funds contribute to the disappearance of the economy and the optimism surrounding small-scale power plants in Norwegian towns, and in and on wind power projects, far on the way. And I am very sorry about that. So, finally, what is most proposed today is how large our research fund should be. The Left promotes proposals for a research fund totaling DKK 100 billion, which is in line with the Bondevik II Government's last budget. It will provide predictability and stability for the most important thing we can do in this country in the future, namely research. With that, I will address the proposal that is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e265	The representative Lars Sponheim has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e268	The debate in the Stortinget on the budget of the Financial Committee. S. No 6 doesn't necessarily always go into the history books as the most exciting debate. I guess there's other debates that do. But there's actually quite a lot of money in circulation, and when we're discussing it, it's important for us to focus on what's in this budget position. Among other things, some of the really big, heavy state agencies are here, and it's about large amounts, a lot of employees and big and important tasks. It's not least that the Storting focuses on how people's tax dollars are used in this bureaucracy that we're set to rule. I find that everyone, with the exception of the Advancement Party, believes that it would be very sensible just to employ more and more people in the tax rate, because then you will make this more profitable, you will get more and more tax money. I register that someone, among other things. The representative, Holmås, may have as his starting point that most people in this country are cheaters and do not want to pay their taxes – ergo we need to employ more and more people to take care of the citizens of Norway. The party of progress thinks it's the opposite. In fact, we believe that the vast majority of people in Norway are honest and honest, and pay the tax that the Storting decides at all times that people have to pay. It is strange that if you look at more and more people in the tax system, this will be more and more profitable. Then I and the Progress Party wonder: How many employees should you have, and why don't you suggest even more money allocated to the tax rate than the majority actually does in today's position? The rhetoric here should almost have been that if almost everyone in Norway were employed in the tax system, it would be very profitable in this country. Several have indicated that we are actually living in a time when a lot has become easier, among other things. The representative, Sponheim, said that and praised it. And it's gotten easier. We now live in a society where more and more things are done electronically, including in terms of tax collection. We find that the Internet has come to stay, and we are constantly getting new and better solutions. What's so strange is that while some companies are able to make use of new technologies more efficient, the majority claim that they cannot achieve the same efficiency in the public sector when using the same technological solutions. Our proposals are not promoted so that more people will work black and more people will be tax-free. It goes without saying that when we live at a time when you should have the opportunity to implement simpler solutions, make things easier, you should also be able to deal with fewer employees. I also note that this year a large-scale reorganization of the tax rate must be carried out. I thought that one of the starting points for this reorganisation was that one should also streamline the work of the establishment. Then you should focus on the fact that you might be able to cope with fewer annual works. But in answer to questions from the Progress Party, the Minister of Finance has said that the goal here is not savings, but doing things in a different way. In this way, a few proposals have been presented by the Progress Party in the vote. We're a little worried about parts of the reorganisation that are going to happen in the tax haven. Let me put it this way: a lot of things that are now going to be transformed into the organization of the tax system are positive. So our suggestions are meant to be creative, sensible ideas in a few areas, where we might think it's a good idea to think about one more time. One applies, among other things. the complaint system, which the representative Tybring-Gjedde has been involved in here earlier today. Now, when you remove multiple terms of this possibility that most people have in order to be able to complain about the tax, we're concerned that we're now getting a society where only those who have the most resources and who ultimately go to trial against the state, which has the opportunity to win. So we're worried. It's not necessarily meant to be a major criticism of the system, but meant as a recommendation to the Government that you might want to see if this will work as you actually think. Unfortunately, the Progress Party believes that we can have a negative development there. Then I hope at least that there is no merit in it, but that, if you see that there may be something that threatens people's legal certainty in the complaint system, if nothing else can come back to it at a later stage. However, I note that our proposal has not been accepted by any other parties. I also point out that the Progress Party has pointed out the possibility – but not as a final conclusion – that the collection of VAT is added to the municipal tax collectors. As we write, and as has also been said from several professional teams, it will be a saving in relation to the budgets we are now discussing. When municipal tax collection already has five out of six tax types to collect, the additional expenditure that will then be on municipal tax collection will be small compared to the enormous savings that can be made in other parts of the system. The fact that we have pointed out one area to be more effective is linked to our proposal to cut some red tape, cutting some administrative posts in particular. tax havens. And then, of course, all of our proposals are hanging in the middle of the budget. S. No 6 in full with our entire alternative state budget. When we want to charge less taxes, want to charge less taxes, want to make the system simpler compared to customs duties, it should also be linked to the fact that fewer people actually need to handle these collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e296	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e312	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e321	There is an overall committee that provides the option to St.prp. No 19, which is being dealt with here today. The regrouping proposal is an important tool for ensuring good financial management in the defence sector, while at the same time bringing together and properly formalising changed assumptions in relation to the defence budget for 2006. Budgetary changes can look very extensive. Let's do this, for example. The defense logistics organization, which is proposed to increase by well 1.5 billion kroner, seems to be a big deal. But these are mainly technical transfers of budgetary responsibilities. In particular, the regrouping within Item 45 Major new purchases has been given some attention in the media lately. Here the budget is reduced by 820 million. kr. A comprehensive committee stresses that material investment is an important prerequisite for the conversion of defence, but notes that the progress of investments is not as expected. Here, it must be allowed to add that there is a great cross of thought that there is so much under-use in the investment chapter, while it is claimed that the defence actually has too little investment resources to realise the agreed structure. Under-use is explained by significant delays in several major investment projects in the current year. Suppliers have had problems delivering as planned. These are big projects that would quickly have drained farms with many, many hundreds of million dollars if they had been on the route. These are frigates from Spain, MTB Skold and NH90 helicopters, to mention something. Therefore, it is also possible to understand why there has been a need to use the budgeted funds in other areas. An overall committee understands this so that the proposed re-disposals from material investments to New Buildings and Installations are more effective in the short term and therefore join the suspension. However, the Committee also points out that it is unfortunate that material investment is being pushed out on time on a permanent basis. The Committee therefore assumes that the Ministry will seek to recover the loss of time as soon as possible. I'm sure the Council of State will follow up on this. So a few words about an information case, which is also mentioned in the proposition. I am very pleased that funds have been allocated to the Defence Air Force Air Force Collection Gardermoen. With its many and special aircraft, the exhibition has been a delight to the audience throughout the East region – yes, throughout the country. Behind the operation of the flight collection is the Foundation Military Historical Forum Eastland, a foundation that has done an incredible amount of hard work. But there are limits to how much one can manage to drive on hard work. That's why it was so important to get a one-off grant now, so that you can upgrade the exhibition itself in the modern exhibition building in the Gardermoen cultural park, while at the same time upgrading a long-term customer base. The funds shall also be used to provide an instruction system for primary school students in cooperation with the Museum of Aviation in Bodø. The aeroplane collection shall not be a competitor of the Museum of Flight in Bodø, but rather a partner. The intention agreement, if any, has already been concluded. The foundation now has 2.25 million. kr, so that the unique aeroplane collection can be made more accessible to the public. This was a sorely needed means and has therefore been very well received by many. It is important and happy that the Government has now helped to get this in place. Overall, the regrouping represents an increased commitment to the Ministry of Defence of 265 million. kr. Of this, 25 million is. additional appropriations for the additional costs of the Norwegian United Nations contribution of MTBs to UNIFIL II in Lebanon.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e344	In this proposal, the Government presents a proposal for certain changes to the appropriations entered in the defence budget for 2006. The reason for these changes is to ensure the best possible consistency between appropriations under each chapter and item and the changes in the budgetary assumptions since the drafting of the defence budget for 2006. The main elements of the regrouping proposal include: separately the proposed transfer of regional support functions. The total expenditure is increased by 265 million. kr. The operating budget has been proposed to increase by a total of 667 million. kr, while the investment budget has been proposed to be reduced by SEK 402 million. Item 45 Large new purchases are proposed to be reduced by a net of 820 million. kr. The reasons for the reduction include, inter alia: there have been delays in the progress of several major material projects. This has led to several actions to launch other priority projects. The Government states that the reductions in the item reflect liquidity adjustments to the time phase of the project portfolio and that it does not reflect reductions in the sector’s investment needs. It is also pointed out that, among other things, the reductions are: due to factors such as delays in deliveries from suppliers in major material projects. It is very important here to point out the enormous investment needs of defence in order to get up to the agreed level in terms of material and logistics. In this context, it is essential that the Government takes on board that the funds that are not currently available for material acquisitions should not be used for other activities, so that this does not go at the expense of the need the funds were intended to cover. It is therefore necessary to maintain these acquisitions financially in the next year's budget so that the acquisitions of the unmet needs can be put in place as soon as possible. Material investment is an important prerequisite for the conversion of the Defence and the follow-up to the agreed structure and thus the form of strength and composition. It is therefore regrettable to note that the progress is not as expected in this respect. It is also important to point out the unfortunate fact that material investment is pushed out permanently in time, thus contributing to further structural weaknesses in the coming period. So we assume that the department will try to recover the loss of time as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e357	Of course, pushing on investment is also challenging them. I don't think it's that bad at a time when not least the head of defence has signaled the slogan 'Political Undercovery of Military Overtakes'. We should be able to put all the investments and all the operating costs under an extra light, not least when we are within such a necessary and good transition period as we are in, for the Defence. And then we'll see if these are pushed on, survive, or how they'll be treated in the next budgetary process. We know that in the Defense there are many new things happening. We know that our allies, which we actually have through alliance cooperation, will also be able to bring with them in the future economical ease of defence, because through cooperation one manages to save both on operating costs and investment costs. So in this context, I don't think we should be so afraid that it's being pushed on material investments. We'll see next time if it's wise, or if they have to be taken in again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e364	The Ministry of Defence has in this proposal submitted proposals for certain changes to the appropriations entered in the 2006 defence budget. The regrouping proposal is primarily a tool to ensure good financial management in the defence sector, in particular to ensure purely technical changes during the financial year. Among other things, it is added. non-budget income and the budgetary implications of the remuneration line for 2006. Overall, the proposed regrouping represents an increase in the defence budget of 265 million. kr. Of this, 240 is million. net income. Twenty-five million. a supplementary appropriation in connection with the Norwegian contribution to UNIFIL II. Of proposals for major changes, the reclassification proposition contains the following main points: Cape. 1740, Defence Logistics Organisation, FLO, has been proposed at the base of NOK 1.6 billion. One billion kroner. due to technical adjustments in relation to other chapters related to the transfer of regional support function to the FLO. The chapter is further proposed to add 233 million. kr in revenue related to the sale of fuel to allies on exercise in Norway. The additional income thus has a corresponding unbudgeted expenditure in 2006. Finally, the FLO is proposed to add 360 million. kr in connection with the filling of the fuel stocks in the Defence. Cape. 1792, Norwegian forces abroad, have been proposed, with a total of 132 million. kr. The majority of this reinforcement is related to the relocation of the camp in Meymaneh, Afghanistan. This is an important measure to strengthen the security of the Norwegian forces. A total of 418 million are proposed for investment in property, construction and civil engineering. kr. The increase is, among other things, related to the previously mentioned movement of the clay in Meymaneh. The remaining increase will be prioritised for investment projects that are important to continue the transition in 2006/2007, inter alia. on Setermoen, Rena and Haaconic Protection, as well as meeting the health, environmental and safety requirements. At the same time, material investments, item 45, are proposed, reduced by 820 million. kr. This proposal does not reflect the reduced need for funds for such investments in the overall period 2005-2008, but is due to delays in some major material projects. These delays result in payments being postponed on time. I have taken note of the Committee's overall view that it is important to ensure adequate marketing of material investment, and will stress that this is a view I fully share, and that this is a matter of very high priority in the whole sector. We follow several tracks in this work. Firstly, the Chief of Defence is actively engaged in recruiting and maintaining the relevant competences of the Defence Military Organisation. Secondly, the Ministry is working to increase the capacity to produce the necessary supporting documentation and decision-making documents. Thirdly, we consider the continuous phase-out of the investment portfolio, in particular with a view to bringing forward the planned individual project in time. Last but not least, we are carrying out an in-depth assessment of the possibility of establishing a material investment seat for the defence sector, in line with the request decisions of the Stortinge. We will return to Stortinget on this matter during the current long-term period. The reclassification proposal is essentially a technical proposition and, as the Committee also points out in its setting, a necessary tool in the financial management. In general, the proposed proposal includes technical adjustments to capture minor changes in the course of the business year and to ensure overall better implementation of the Storting decision and leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e390	The defence experience annual budgets and policy objectives cracking, often resulting in material investment in particular being pushed out on time. This is also the case for parts of the reclassification proposal that are being addressed today. Is the Government Council in agreement with the Government Partner SV in terms of pushing material projects in time, as described by Jacobsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e395	As I also said in my post, the main reason for the under-use is that there have been delays in materialisation. I would also like to say that we in the Ministry of Defence are following the decisions taken in Stortinget regarding the investment plan to remedy this – i.e., not to experience so much under-use, we are trying to pull out other projects in time. However, there are long lead times and long ordering times on material for the defence sector, and that is why we have now come into this situation – above all for these reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e400	Let me also underline the importance of material investment for the conversion of defence. When I drew a line, it was on the same background as the previous replicator, namely that the Swedish representative Bjørn Jacobsen presented it as desirable to push the material investments – it was a desirable situation that there are now delays, because it gives an opening to reassess the material investments. That is the question the Council of State has to answer, whether it is such that the Council of State will follow up the requirement of SV to review the material investments now, or whether it is such that SV appears to be an opposition in this matter without any influence on the government's policy. It's an important question, which I hope the Council of State can clarify, namely whether Bjørn Jacobsen speaks on behalf of the government parties, or whether it is such that he represents an opposition internally in the red-green coalition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e405	As I also said in my previous answer, the Government follows the plan adopted by the Stortinget. As the representative Sanner is also aware, the previous government was also unable to follow up the planned investment framework. This means that in some cases you may have to reduce the amount you order. But when we have an under-use in the current year, it is primarily, as I said, on the basis of the fact that the suppliers have not been able to deliver in time, and that we have a number of large projects that will not be paid out in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e411	Item 47, Sal of ownership, is proposed to be reduced by 89 million. kr. This is mainly due to the fact that municipalities and county councils are going to buy, but then the money may not come when they were going to come. What makes a sale, and therefore payment of the purchase price, happen later than if it had been private that had been buyers? The question is whether there are many such properties we are talking about. For me, it is incomprehensible that municipalities and counties are unable to decide and are therefore not paying up under contracts. Or are the defence negotiators liberal? The second thing I'm asking is concrete action on things that need to be pushed out on time. I do not think we have received enough examples of concrete actions and projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e418	In order to respond to this, concrete action that is about pushing things in time: the situation we are in now with regard to under-use is, therefore, primarily due to the fact that we have not received the deliveries we have planned to get in time. There is also another reason, which could have consequences in the long term, and that is that we are dependent on retaining key skills personnel, for example. on investment competence, etc., and these are in particular personnel associated with the FLO. Here we put in various measures to keep both the staff we have and to recruit new ones. Obviously, when we're in a situation where there's a very good labour market, it's also hard for the defense to keep people. The second is that we have aftermaths after the violent brake that was after 2004, and also after the downpour that has been caused by the change in defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e423	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e428	Next thing we're going to deal with here in the hall, goes on the management of the economy. The issues we are dealing with now are not least priorities. From this room there is no doubt that we have to put the north as the number. 1, and also intops will be an important part. So all the investments that are made have to be seen in the light of this: if they are relevant to the north, are they relevant to international operations? That's my starting point. Then I don't have a demand for one to push on investment. But I record that a dare to challenge investment. And if the defense doesn't dare it once, as all other government and private enterprises must dare, I don't understand why we wouldn't dare challenge them. The whole goal of this work is to ask yourself: Can the defence, like others, operate better, operate more cost-effectively? I note in part that the Right does not seem to be interested in this, even though they have had an active state council in the past that is running the conversion processes in the Defence. But then one must also be involved in the concrete and, for example, challenging investments, as we do in this case. And then we'll see if they hold water in the next round. This has in no way been a requirement from the SV's side, but if the defense does not tolerate it, they do not tolerate much.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e437	No more people have asked for the word on Case 2. [[Footing, see page 1541]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e453	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e460	St. pp. No 20 deals with the launch of the LOS programme in the Defence Financial Project. The LOS programme is the defence's reorientation of the common management system for the economy, personnel and logistics and is thus an important conversion tool in order to achieve the objectives of the modernisation of defence under the decision of the Storting. Furthermore, the Economic Project is important in order to improve financial management in Defence, cf. St.meld. No 29 for 2005-2006 on the additional consumption of the defence budget in 2004 and St.meld. No 10 for 2005-2006 on economic governance in defence. The programme shall contribute to the development of common processes across defence sectors and departments for the defence military organisation. The Committee points out that the establishment of a common external accounting system was achieved through delivery project 1 of the former Programme Golf. The Committee notes that two major projects remain for the implementation of common solutions in the field of logistics and agrees that the first is the Economic Project, which includes: shall provide the defence with an electronic internal accounting system. Furthermore, the Committee understands that the next project will have the ambition to provide the Defence Military Organisation with a complete logistical solution, including, inter alia, the following: functionality for support for maintenance and acquisition in projects and records that the Ministry of Defence will return in an appropriate manner to the Stortingen regarding this project. The Committee points out that the Government was informed in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007 that the defence had started contract negotiations with the supplier of the economic project and that it was expected that this would lead to a reduction in the uncertainty and thereby through the cost framework of the project. However, we have recorded that the result of the negotiations is that the costs have increased by approx. Forty million. kr in relation to the estimated amount. Otherwise, we notice that Dovre International AS has implemented an external quality assurance of the Economic Project, and that, as a result of the Dovre recommendation and based on internal assessments, the Defence has taken action to limit the uncertainty of the projects. In this context, an overall committee will refer to the development of costs associated with the implementation of the common management system in defence and will underline the importance of implementing the project within the agreed framework and the follow-up of quality assurance measures throughout the project. The Committee expects the Government to keep the Stortinget properly informed about the project. The Committee's comments are unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e481	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e497	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e513	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e522	The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, have no comments on St.prp. No 29, but I will make a small comment in relation to the City Ship Tunnel. It is good that the Government will look at the consequences of extending the tunnel dimensions so that fast-moving vessels and other vessels up to 16000 BT can use the tunnel. It is also important to have a thorough investigation of the project and turn several stones, and that Stortingen is briefed on this in 2009. Now we see from the comments from the opposition parties that you really would have stressed this earlier, but I think it's important that you take the time now to get a proper review of the project and get a clarification of the issues around it. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e535	There are two aspects that the Progress Party has noticed. One is that the Government will reduce the revenue from the sale of fireworks and stop disposals of such properties in 2007. We support a review of the property of the Coastal Plant, including the properties that have been used for the fire service. However, we will continue to dispose of properties that the Coastal Plant does not see need to retain, and ask that it be assessed in relation to going through the property stock. So point number. 2, which is really the most important thing. We want to move on to work with the City Ship Tunnel. As the case rapporteur concluded, we believe that this could go faster than what the government is proposing. We have been informed in this case that further investigations are pushing this important case up to 2009 at the earliest. Then, in our opinion, it goes too late. I myself received a reply from the working fisheries and coastal ministers during the transport committee's budget debate last Tuesday. He reasoned that the profitability should be reassessed, that the impact on tourism should be examined more closely, in addition to the actual calculations relating to the extension of the capacity of the Urban Tunnel to include fast-haul vessels. The Progress Party is convinced that this project is socio-economically viable and that it has a good impact on tourism. We can't believe that a new investigation of these conditions will take almost three years. It tastes more like that you want postponement, but don't want to say it. An overall opposition – the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left – agree that this project, the ship’s tunnel past the City, should be built as an OPS project – a public-private cooperation project. After all, there has been an extra important method of funding since the Government's own alternative to OPS, project financing, has taken place in the event of an early death. On behalf of those parties, I take up the proposal that the Government submit a case on the City Ship Tunnel as soon as possible, and no later than 2008. I would like to add that the Western Council has just drawn up a proposal for a transport plan for 2007-2019. They are a bit ahead of the planning process of the roll-out of the national transport plan, but still an important initiative. In conclusion, I would like to point out very briefly what the four Western states – Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal – say about the development of the ship's lease. There are two projects that have been developed. The first of the two are just City Ship Tunnel. I quote from the transport plan: «City tunnel must be built, which will significantly improve the regularity and safety of the corridor» – i.e. the ship corridor along the coast. That's what I hope the Council of State will bring with it. I hope that the Government and the Council of State will stress that the four coastal states together strongly underline the importance of this project. It should also indicate that we don't have time to throw away, not at all in three years of investigation. We certainly believe that it can happen faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e550	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e553	For seafarers who travel along the coast, the State Sea has always been referred to with respect as perhaps the most difficult open sea stretch along our entire long-distance coast. There is never peace in the ‘City’, but often storms and great seas. And today is no exception. Today, ships north and south of Stadland are waiting for better weather and safer sailing. From the nature's point of view, a tunnel of 2 km through the Stadland at its narrowest point can eliminate this accident-affected sea route and thus ensure a safe fairway. Many lives will be saved — and, of course, material destruction. The Western countries have been concerned about this for many years. Now they deserve action. Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag have calculated the annual loss of 62 million. kr because the industry suffers from the failure of the State Sea to pass, or the slinging and bad weather result in a lower price of the raw material due to a reduced quality. These calculations are based on figures taken from Norway's stock of herring sales and are based on catches of mackerel in the autumn of 2005. In 2001, a pilot project for the tunnel was completed through the City of Stockholm and an impact assessment was sent to the hearing. When examining the 2005 State budget, an allocation of 5 million was adopted. kr for further investigation work. The minority in the Committee is impatient and is asking for action now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e566	It's City Ship Tunnel. It's about today. As announced in the budget position and commented on in the budget debate earlier this week, we have received a proposition stating that the project City Ship Tunnel will be further explored. That's what the Christian People's Party thinks is right. But it is the time for this that is the question here: ‘the earliest in 2009’. I expect that when you use the term ‘earliest’, there is something below it. It seems strange that such an investigation should take so long that this big business cannot deal with the matter. And there's another important part up here, that we're going to deal with the National Transport Plan in the meantime. This means that there is no possibility of getting City Ship Tunnel into the next period of the National Transport Plan. I'm assuming that it's also deliberately arranged like this on the part of the sitting government. We have two proposals in the budget position and in the position under consideration today. One is to unravel the City Tunnel as a OPS project. It was in the budget position. The second proposal goes at the time of the deliberations. We believe that the Government is actually postponing the whole matter to the next majority period, and that is not acceptable for the Christian People's Party. We should get it out in this period. Therefore, the opposition stands together to ask for the case to be submitted by 2008. We are many who have fought for the City Ship Tunnel for quite a long time. It is said that the first thoughts of such a tunnel came 130 years ago. The Christian People's Party has programmed that the party will continue to work to realize the City Tunnel. It also means that we want to be involved in taking the costs of building such a tunnel. We are many who agree that the project is important in order to ensure maritime safety. We are talking about one of the most severe areas in Europe. Over 100 ships have been lost here for the last 100 years, and over 100 people have died. The tunnel shall ensure cargo and communication, and it shall contribute positively to our common objective for the environment by providing more goods and passengers from road to rail and sea. The last announcement by the Government of an orientation in 2009 cannot be included in the Christian People's Party. We therefore hope that it may be possible to have this matter presented earlier. In the case of fireworks, which are also mentioned in the proposition, we stand in the setting together with the Right and Left to want more flexibility from the Government to find good, locally adapted solutions in the various cases. Most of the fireworks sold by the Bondevik II government were sold to municipalities or organisations to ensure that the properties were made available to the public in the future. That's exactly what the goal is, that we get the properties restored and keep them up to date for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e581	It is a bit funny that such a case is being dealt with in Stortinget today. One might then suspect that the City Ship Tunnel is a marginal matter, but it is not. It's a big deal, and as the other speakers have said, it's been on the wallpaper for years. And the left has the program party that we're going to have the construction of the City Tunnel. What is happening now is that one should consider whether Hurtigruta and other large boats should be able to pass through the tunnel. Of course we in the left are also some i. But the problem associated with the question of the Hurtigruta going through the ship's tunnel is, in fact, quite simply, that the tunnel has to get a little higher. We're talking about blasting out 8 meters at altitude. The original thing here is that the government is planning to spend so much time on a single calculation piece - a calculation piece as a teacher at a youth school level. Calculates the number of cubes of tiles to detonate, i. e. the number of cubes to detonate. height x length x width, which is 330,000 m3 of rock. In the view of the Left, at least it is disappointing and incomprehensible that the Government should take three years to calculate something that, in our view, is currant. The left is in favour of the proposal that the cases should be submitted by 2008 at the latest. We don't have time to wait for another three years. In my view, one should have finished within six months, so that one could be sued in connection with the next year’s government budget – at least so that one in connection with the national transport plan could have a clear plan for what will happen to the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e593	Only a short comment connects to the four-part domain. The reality is that the previous government put up the hall of guys around the country. This led, among other things, to that many municipalities that wanted to buy a guy could not afford it. Not only had the right part given the municipalities poor finances, but they also praised the value of the property so that the municipalities could not afford to buy them. This applies in particular to: in Haå municipality in Rogaland. The municipality wanted to buy the lighthouse, but the price that the previous government put on it, made it only Rimi-Hagen and other people who could beat it and buy it. What the government is doing is taking action to ensure that ordinary people can sit in the lighthouse – not Rimi-Hagen in the tower, but Tobias in the tower. We want to make sure everyone has access to the property. Therefore, we are reducing the revenue from the sale. So if the revenues were to grow, one had to sell to them with the most money. Our policy is to make sure that the lighthouses and lighthouses become all-rounders, not in the hands of private peoples. So there's a clear change of course also in this area from the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e600	To begin with, the representative of Langeland concluded: the coastal works shall no longer dispose of fireworks, but shall stand as the owner of the properties. This is an important element in ensuring the cultural history of the establishment and is part of the project The State Cultural Historical Properties. However, the properties may be rented, preferably to municipalities or counties, with a view to making the properties available to the public. This means that rental contracts concluded with municipalities, county councils or organisations today can be continued when desired. After the sale in 2005 and 2006, the Coast Guard has 106 properties of some extent that are or have been linked to the fireworks service. It's per. today entered into 62 leases. The main content of these contracts is that the rental consists of the maintenance of the building stock, while the Coastal Plant is responsible for the navigational installations. The Coastal Agency is now preparing a standard contract for renting out quay properties, where one is in dialogue with large user groups such as the Association of the Coast, the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Association of Free Air Councils, etc. The main purpose of the work is to facilitate the alternative use of unused building stock, while maintaining the use of the navigational installations by the Coastal Plant. Tenants are also interested in establishing a dialogue with the Coastal Office on the implementation of the maintenance in view of the high level of professional competence in the maintenance of building mass under particularly harsh climatic conditions, and the fact that the department has historical experience relating to individual property. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department also assumes that the Coastal Agency shall establish the necessary contact with the Directorate of Nature Management to ensure that lighthouses can be transferred to that Directorate in cases where there are important nature conservation considerations to be taken into account. Contracts for the disposal of pre-negotiated fireworks shall be carried out in accordance with the guidelines in force at the time of the negotiation. Then to City Ship Tunnel, the second main theme of the setting. The Government wants to facilitate safe and coastal transport, with better labelling and maintenance of fairways and the development of modern navigation systems. We also have objectives for increased maritime transport, increased preparedness and maritime safety. The location of the ship's tunnel is a proposed project in the core network, which is initially justified on the grounds of increased maritime safety. Any realisation could also improve the accessibility of parts of maritime transport along the coast. This project includes a ship's tunnel between Moldefjorden and Kjøpollen which is 1800 m long, 22 m high, 23 m wide and 12 m deep. This means that boats up to 5000 gross tonnes can use the tunnel. Furthermore, it has been assessed that vessels too large to use the tunnel can go outside City, even in bad weather. In this context, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has been presented with a report indicating that in the waters outside the City there are no more ship and crew rescues or damage than on other coastal routes. This, of course, does not mean that the area is not exposed, but also that the seafarer is cautious and weaning in relation to the weather before passing the City. The estimated cost of building this tunnel is 1.14 billion in 2005, including VAT. Updated cost-benefit calculations show, however, that the project is not socio-economically viable and therefore there is no basis for implementing this investment. Nevertheless, the government will turn every stone in this matter, but without creating new and unrealistic expectations. There have been some concerns about extending the dimensions of the tunnel so that the Hurtigruta can also pass through. I would therefore like to carry out a broader assessment of the size and usefulness of the project, including the framework conditions for tourism, in which ships of the size of the ‘Midnatsol’ high-speed route shall be designed for the tunnel. By comparison, ‘Midnatsol’ is higher than 16000 gross tonnes. Such a broader assessment means that the present project will be substantially modified and that new studies, new cost estimates, new cost-benefit analyses and a new quality assurance for projects over 500 million will therefore need to be carried out. kr, according to guidelines from the Ministry of Finance. This means that Stortinget can be informed of the status of the project in 2009. So it's going to be a whole new investigation, not just to multiply the height, the width and the length, and then to be done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e627	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e630	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that seafarers are cautiously waiting – they are actually lying waiting for the weather now. There's a lot of impatience along the coast because you've spent a lot of time getting where we are today. This is why it is a discouraging message when one says that new rounds can provide new information at the earliest in 2009. Will the Council of State work to make it sooner than 2009? Now I've listened to the reasons why it's going to be spent three years on what the Council of State characterises as a new investigation. I still believe that it sounds very extensive. Experience from other similar large projects does not suggest that this is necessary, even with quality assurance rules, and that we can only get this case back in 2009. Is it not the concern of the State Council that this project, if it does, will fall outside the first national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e639	First of all, I'm concerned that we're not going to have a good enough investigation. As I said in my post, we want to turn every rock to look for the opportunity to come up with an economically sound project in which it is socially profitable to invest. That is why I am pleased that the technical advice we have received indicates that we should go to work thoroughly, but it also requires quality assurance in relation to the fact that we must make investments and investigations in advance of it properly. The starting point for 2009 is not, as was suggested here, a desire to postpone the case. That's what we've set as a time frame, based on the calculations we've got on how long it takes to make a proper investigation. So this is a new project, not just a few meters in addition to the previous project. I can assure you that if it is possible to obtain the investigation earlier, of course it is not against us. But we don't want to suggest anything that might turn out later that one can't hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e648	I am pleased that the Council of State noticed my simple reasoning. I think it's actually easy, and one must not make it harder than it is. I'm glad that the council also says that one should turn on each stone, because it's a lot of rock, and it can also be useful in the context of nutrition. Maybe we'll talk about a cube price of $35, and it's not that untimely. It's also a salsa. So I'm assuming that the Council of State will also include that. An additional point that I would like to mention. – Of course, it is primarily a transport project we are talking about. But also in the tourism context, the project is drawing up as a big point. We have huge fjords. We have high mountains, and such a tunnel would be a spectacular project. What does the Council of State think about that? Are the elements to be included in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e657	When I said turn around "every stone," I thought first and foremost in the design phase to try to find solutions that can defend the investments. I did not think so much about turning on each of the stones that might eventually have to be fired out. But it's true that masses are also a resource. As I said in my post, the tourist side is also important. That is why it is one of the elements I mentioned that will be examined, including: because of that. But as I said instead – because it is a whole new project, we probably have to do something more thorough than what the representative mentioned in his first post, and just multiply the height, width and length. It is an economic project, in which tourism and its effects are also among those to be assessed. I'm sure that element will go in a positive direction for the project. But then we'll look at the project in a whole when it's really figured out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e664	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e682	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e695	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e703	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2-5, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 6, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 7, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 8, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner286Found for research and innovation95Fundamental capital 100 000 000 0005999State loan resources90Loans 95 054 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e783	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 is authorised under: Capital 25 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fundamental capital 400 000 0001825Reconversion of energy use and energy production95Capital deposits 15 000 000 0005999State loans90Loans 85 577 225 000 »
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e875	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 6 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 is authorised under: Cap.PostFormålKroner1325Vegfond95Vegfond 20 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural memory fund90Fund capital 300 000 0005999State loan resources90Länn 100 490 250000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e952	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e1111	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner286The Research and Innovation Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3286)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e1344	The progress party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e2505	The progress party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e3548	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e4467	During the debate Arne Sortevik has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of a case on the City of the Ship’s Tunnel as soon as possible and no later than 2008.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15.ana.ud1181e4811	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting ends? - The meeting is over.
