ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e14	The representatives of Espen Johnsen, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Ingrid Heggø, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. This meeting shall be held by reference to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 13 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e39	The President will propose: 1st@item: inlistbox The matter is dealt with in an open meeting in Stortinget.2. The matter will be referred to the Stortinget meeting on Tuesday 24 October at 9.30 a.m. 10 a.m. as case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal, and this procedure is then deemed to be unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. The President will propose that the minutes of this closed meeting in Stortinget be published. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The protocol was then read out and made no comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e55	The President will ask the representatives to place today's documents in the paper box placed on the floor here, or to return them to the dispatch office immediately after the meeting has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e111	About 200,000 of our inhabitants have diabetes, and about 200,000 of them have diabetes. half of these have the disease without knowing about it yet. We also see that diabetes 2, formerly called age diabetes, now affects younger people, and the number of diabetes 2 has quadrupled in the last fifty years. Every year, an estimated 67 000 Nordics are diagnosed with diabetes 2. We also see an overrepresentation of this disease among parts of the immigrant population. The disease is heritable, but the main reason for the early onset of the disease is changes in lifestyle, low exercise, poor diet, overweight – and, of course, many now achieve a higher life expectancy. Unfortunately, this disease brings with it many serious sensitivities, such as loss of vision, impaired kidney function, poor circulation of blood, neuropathy, foot soups and amputations. Sensational complications only occur after 15–20 years, and in the past not many of the patients became old enough to develop these sensitivities. Today, as young people also develop the disease, we will see a strong increase in damage. In fact, we already see that today. These injuries can be avoided in most cases, and it is therefore important to consider all prevention options. Norway is not the best in the class of diabetes care. There is a great potential for improvement, both in preventing the outbreak of the disease, in the next row to prevent those who have the disease from developing tendon pests, and last but not least, to care for and care for those patients who have had tendon plagues, so that they receive follow-up and proper professional assistance. Iceland has managed to provide a good prevention treatment to avoid loss of vision; today it is an exception in Iceland that people lose sight. Examples of trials in Sweden show that proper prevention leads to the avoidance of amputations. Maybe we can copy good solutions where others succeed, instead of using a lot of resources to find their own solutions to achieve the same goals. In this interpellation, I've wanted to focus on my feet, our subjects, who carry us all through life, but who unfortunately get too little attention. Diabetic plaques are more than 15 times as likely to have to amputate bones as people without the disease. The reason diabetes patients have to amputate is often a combination of nerve damage, neuropathy, and decreased blood circulation to the feet. Patients with reduced sensitivity do not notice hard edges on shoes, gnawing ulcers, enlarged nails, skin spatters or treads on pointed objects. This can easily lead to ulcers, and the disease is also the cause of the ulcers growing slowly and of infections. Footcare and the choice of right footwear can help control wounds and injuries to the feet. It's terrible to think that every year there are up to 300 people in this country who could have avoided amputating. An amputation is not only painful and tragic, but it could also lead to problems with walking, leg pain, and not least back problems. We have seen a dramatic increase in amputations in the last year, and it is now important that satisfactory procedures are put in place to ensure that patients in the danger zone have a good professional follow-up. About 70 pst. the amputations of diabetes are triggered by foot ulcers leading to deep infection and cold fire. The amputation risk may be reduced by at least 50 pst. in the case of regular foot inspections and preventive foot care of an approved diabetic foot therapist. It is important that they have continuing vocational training, and it is important to have a multidisciplinary professional staff. People with diabetes should have their feet examined at least once a year. It should be as natural to look at the feet of a diabetic as to measure blood pressure. Decision-makers must now take greater responsibility, and good referral procedures must be established for specialists and diabetes teams, consisting of medical specialists, nurses, specialised foot therapists and orthopaedic engineers. An amputation with post-treatment may cost up to 1 million. kr. In addition, the costs of prostheses or other necessary auxiliaries are included. For every amputation you can avoid, both the patient and society are saved. A consensus conference in Sweden has calculated that better treatment of diabetic feet can save the country about 400 million. kr annually. A trial conducted in a hospital in Sweden showed that a managed to reduce the number of amputations by over 80 pst. by having a diabetic training team and good follow-up. It shows that it's useful. It is important that those affected by diabetes improve their quality of life and avoid or minimise the damage caused by late complication. Much of the content of the submitted diabetes plan is aimed at preventing what each individual should be able to do in order to take responsibility for his or her own health, such as: adjustment of diet, physical activity, weight reduction, etc. That's of course very important. But for those who have already developed the disease and have tendon plaques, the health care system needs professional help. An important element of prevention is the strengthening of self-care. But a lot of people have problems nurturing their feet because of it. overweight, old age and/or poor vision. It turns out that the development of ulcers and infections is being discovered too late, and that the patient is not being treated correctly in time. The diabetes plan will fail if it is not followed up with enough money in the budgets and clear instructions in the booking documents of health care establishments. The draft budget submitted lacks complete follow-up resources, with the exception of DKK 600 000 to half of its strategic directorship. It is very good, that position is very important, but it is not very close enough. The Diabetes Association estimates that a minimum of 30 million should be set aside. kr in the 2007 budget. There is something that all the parties should take with them when they are going to look further into the budget, if there are any changes to be made there. Annually it is used approx. 10 billion on diabetes at direct or indirect costs. This amount is likely to increase. So the question is not whether we're spending money, but how are we going to spend this money? Today is 70 pst. to repair those who have had serious late complications, and 30 pst. to prevent the complications. This is a bad health economy, and it is bad treatment for the individual. The Social and Health Directorate pointed out this major paradox in its investigation in front of the diabetes strategy. It says the following: ‘It is a great paradox that animal treatment for sensitisers and complications is a patient’s right, while reasonable prevention measures are not.’ In other words, prevention will pay off for society as a whole, when you see it as a whole. As far as I know, today there are diabetic teams working interdisciplinaryly with the prevention and treatment of foot injuries at the hospitals in Stavanger and Ålesund. In my opinion, this is something that should be set up at every hospital in the country as soon as possible. Many people now expect the state to take its responsibility seriously to avoid or reduce as far as possible further suffering and disability for the many who have a disease that brings much more distress than most people know. I hope that the Council of State can say something quite concrete about what she will do to ensure a functionally good organisation, enough professional staff and good professional treatment of diabetic patients, so that most amputations will be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e148	The representative of Giltun addresses an important matter. It is quite right that Norway faces major challenges in the years to come in terms of prevention, follow-up and treatment of diabetes. It was against that background that the Government in July this year presented a plan for how we want to meet these challenges. One of its objectives is to do both to mobilise and coordinate several of the resources already available, in order to obtain the widest possible range of services for all diabetic patients. Then it is right, as the representative Giltun has pointed out, that we have hired a separate director who should be responsible for this field alone. I think that's important, so that we get more complete in this area. I will also ensure that the issues raised in this interview here today are among the first issues to be addressed by the Social and Health Directorate. Type 2 diabetes is a growing problem all over the world. We in Norway are no exception. As it is said, the number of people with diabetes has increased dramatically in the last 30 years. Unfortunately, we are waiting for this increase to continue. Today, about 120 000 people in Norway have been diagnosed with diabetes. We're assuming that there's about the same number of people who have undetected diabetes. The reasons for this explosive development of type 2 diabetes are mainly changes in diet, less physical activity and a general increase in the weight of the population. It is also quite true that patients with diabetes mellitus are at risk of serious late complications. Most serious are nerve damage and circulatory disorders that can lead to diabetic foot ulcers. It is also true that about one third of all people with diabetes develop reduced sensitivity in their feet over 10 to 15 years, depending on how well the disease has been regulated. Professionals therefore recommend that a person with diabetes who has been diagnosed with neuropathic disease should be regularly monitored and supervised by qualified treatment 3 to 6 times per day. years to prevent foot ulcers and reduce the risk of amputation. Good treatment and follow-up of patients with neuropathic disease are essential to avoid serious infections, as the representative of Giltun indicated. Without good follow-up, long-term and resource-intensive treatment can be achieved, which in worst cases may end in amputation. The risk of amputation is about 30 times higher for people with diabetes than for others. In Norway, there are 400 to 500 amputations above the ankle level each year in diabetics. It's a serious situation that we don't want, and we want to do something about. In the diabetes strategy that we presented this summer, it's an explicit goal to reduce the number of delay complications in diabetes. Then there are several measures we are considering, so that we will get better at this. This applies for the first time to prevention. We know that prevention is closely linked to general public health measures and is a very important point. I would like to mention measures to bring about changes in diet and measures to increase the number of people in activity. Good practices for good practice across healthcare are also very important. Diabetes is a disease that requires that the patient also be vigilant and takes responsibility for his own health to the extent possible. I don't think these patients want to be passive recipients of healthcare. Therefore, it is important to support the patient’s ability to cope with the daily challenges and to master the life of diabetes. The patient, relatives and healthcare needs to work together on how the patient’s own resources can be used both in planning and in training to master the new life situation. An important part of this work is self-care training for those who have the opportunity to do so, in addition to the health services that should do so. Diabetes should also be diagnosed as early as possible in order to avoid or delay delayed complications. Therefore, there has to be good practice to detect this early, so that even those who do not know that they have the disease are caught early by the health care system. Here I agree with the representative of Giltun that the primary health service and thereby the caregivers have a great responsibility both to discover new cases and to initiate prevention and treatment of accompanying diseases as early as possible. The Norwegian General Medicine Association (NSAM) has developed a separate action plan for diabetes in general practice. This is a programme of high professional quality and provides advice on the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients. Half of the general practitioners in Norway are currently using this programme. NSAM recommends that everyone who has had diabetes should have their feet examined annually. The action programme does not recommend a general screening for diabetes, but much more active search for new cases of diabetes on broad indications. The government wants this action program to be implemented among all primary health care doctors. I have therefore asked the Social and Health Directorate in cooperation with the Medical Association to work to ensure that the action programme is implemented by all general practitioners. It is important that all patients receive good treatment regardless of where they live in the country. That is why I have asked the Social and Health Directorate to develop new national, professional guidelines for the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of diabetics in the specialist health service. This, of course, is to be done in cooperation with the professional community, but also with the user organisations. Public health professionals in municipal services must also have knowledge of how to support and help the patient from the point of view of the disease, in the treatment and control of foot ulcers and in the further reference to specialist health services. The strengthening of the municipal economy by the government is to ensure that municipalities can recruit new professionals, but also provide further development and further training for those already employed. Good multidisciplinary cooperation is a prerequisite for providing the best possible treatment for patients with diabetes foot. I believe that local hospitals also have an important role to play in the follow-up of patients with chronic diseases such as diabetes, because this is a disease that requires long-term and frequent follow-up from health care and close communication with the patient and its relatives. In the Soria Moria statement, the government states that we want better work sharing between hospitals to get good quality treatment. There shall also be more learning and mastering centres for chronic diseases in local hospitals. Many hospitals have good experience with multidisciplinary diabetes teams. These may consist of doctors and nurses, and some also have clinical nutrition physiologist, physiotherapist and foot therapist on their team. Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands have good experience with such teams, and it appears that the frequency of amputations can be reduced by between 40 and 80 pst. This is why the establishment of diabetes teams in all hospitals and systems for better interaction between health care levels is also very important to reduce amputations. Interpellanten has mentioned the offer at Stavanger University Hospital, where the foot therapists have an important role, as an example of a good response for this group of patients. I agree that Stavanger has developed a good offer, which should inspire other hospitals in the country to further develop this service. I think it's particularly interesting that the foot therapists have a central role in the treatment and follow-up of the patients. I am also aware that the hospital is working on further developing this competence, and I will follow this development carefully. As I said, diabetes is a growing problem, as the government takes it most seriously. The objectives of the diabetes strategy must be followed up in both prevention and treatment. With multidisciplinary diabetes teams, patient interaction and training systems and relatives, we will be able to reduce the number of amputations. The implementation of the NSAM action programme on diabetes in general practice shall also ensure greater attention to the risk groups and early detection of the disease. I have great expectations that the work now underway in the field of diabetes will lead to a better situation for the country's diabetic patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e185	I would like to thank the Council of State so much for the answer. As far as I am concerned, there is no disagreement between the Council of State and me as to the situation — what it really is — or what needs are being met in terms of both health professionals and prevention. As we both said, we see a strong increase in lateness, and that makes a lot of the money that is being spent now, used to treat lateness. In my post I said that 70 pst. went to it and 30 pst. for prevention. The prevention measures now being implemented under this plan will not take effect immediately, so we will continue to see that more of the funds already provided in the budgets will be used for treatment, whether we want it or not. This is precisely why we need to spend extra money for a few years to keep up with the diabetes plan, so that we get the effect of the prevention that we are planning on in terms of lifestyle change and all the other measures that patients are going to take on themselves. With regard to the measures that the public must take, more money is needed to set up the diabetes teams and to train staff with special skills in the municipalities. It's not that a diabetic patient who gets a leg ulcer can take care of it himself, or that a normal foot therapist can take care of it. As a rule, there is a specialised foot therapist who should take on such tasks. We have a task both in training that profession and in raising their status, so that they can get a little easier cooperation with the other professions – there are often some conflicts between them. I think that for a few years we need to contribute extra resources to prevention in order to have the desired effect. I hope that all the parties now will see if there is anything more to be put into the budget, so we can get started with good prevention and maybe not to use even more than we do today, of the means that are for diabetes, to repair the damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e194	I am very pleased that it – at least so far, but we get to hear further in the debate – seems to be a broad consensus on how big a challenge this is today and is going to be in the future, as far as we know now. It is important to do both: both to prevent and to put into practice measures that can prevent people from becoming ill, at least so early, and also to ensure that those who are already ill receive the necessary treatment. Then, of course, money is important, and that is also one of the reasons why the government has strengthened the hospital economy strongly for the next year, and that we have also spent money on various prevention measures, which are also not least targeted at this group. But that's not all that costs money, either. I want to say that getting more interdisciplinary teams to work on this doesn't necessarily have to cost a lot of money. It is about interacting and doing things in a better way, as one has not least succeeded in Stavanger. I agree with Giltun's representative that many of these patients are unable to care for the ulcers of the sea. Therefore, it is so important that they are involved in health controls and treatment. But it's probably also that if any more had been trained, at least in the early phase of the disease, they could also have done more seawater. So there we also have to do both of these at once. I also very much believe that the new program for all general practitioners, when we get it introduced – that is, to be aware of earlier what to do to prevent, what to do to treat, etc. – will prevent as many people get as serious late complications as we unfortunately see examples of today. So here I think it's possible to do something quite cross-political – and I'm glad – in such an important area, both in terms of preventing further, treating the best of those who have contracted the disease, and preventing so many, for example, from doing so. must amputate the leg, which of course is a terrible thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e207	The interpellant focuses on an area of diabetes care that most people prefer not to think about. An amputation is a great physical strain, but an equally great mental strain on the one being hit. I am therefore pleased that the Government is striving to prevent diabetes, to mobilise and coordinate the resources that we already have, through the national strategy and with its own director. We know a lot about prevention, we know a lot about prevention, and we have to figure it out. At the same time, we must not create guilt in those affected, for there may be many reasons why amputations occur, even if one follows all the advice and rules of life given. Diabetes type 1 we can do little to prevent it. Also type 1 diabetics amputate bones, because many of them have so far had a much longer course of the disease. Type 2 has traditionally been a later debut on. The type 1 diabetics often have a better connection to a doctor and can often be reached there. Often they have also received much better information than the type 2 diabetics have received. The delayed damage of type 2 diabetics has therefore been underestimated. What we're now seeing now is that more and more young people are hit by type 2, will lead to more and more people having the disease a longer part of their lives and thus having a greater chance of getting late injuries. Early diagnosis, as the Council of State says, will be a prevention measure. We know that a lot of people are dealing with diabetes without even being aware of it. Elevated blood sugar over time damages the small blood vessels, and this leads to wounds that will not grow. The action programme to which the Council refers will therefore be very important to get started. The challenges associated with it are how to reach those patients who do not know they are ill and who do not know enough about what works. There may have to be more than one venue here, and interdisciplinary interaction and interdisciplinary interaction are the keywords. Health professionals, as mentioned by the Council of State, are important actors — from the prescriber, who can early detect the symptoms, to nurses who have close contact with the patient, and other groups working with patients. Training and continuing training are necessary for all those groups and must be continuous and with good, up-to-date knowledge. In all health education, this must be an important part of the syllabus and provision must be made for refresher training and training for those concerned. A well-regulated diabetes also depends on good technical aids, which are currently available. The value of frequent blood sugar measurements, knowledge of nutrition and exercise, foot care and knowledge of what can happen is something that all diabetics should be well informed about. More learning and mastering centres will contribute to this. The responsibility for one’s own illness is indisputable, as a diabetic lives 24 hours a day with his own illness and knows best how he or she is. But I have to say again: a good, up-to-date knowledge is necessary. We know, unfortunately, that there is a lot of old-fashioned knowledge around. We have to get rid of it, and then we have to get a good new knowledge. The Diabetes Association is good at providing information to those who are already diabetic, and they have members standing around the country to give other introductions to how it is to live with diabetes, and what it is like to live the best possible and the best possible with diabetes. That's good, and it's useful. In the interaction, as the Council of State says a lot about, they will be important actors and co-players, and there are co-players who can reach many. Information on diabetes prevention is, as we all have just said, important. But once the disease has broken out, we have to find the most possible ways to solve it too. The interpellant mentions one group, and the goal must be to reach them before even more delayed injuries occur, and help them where they are. Again, much can be done by good self-control and good knowledge, and I believe that through the Council of State's response, we have been well guided in how we can achieve this – prevention rather than repair. And then we have to help those who have additionally been so unfortunate to get late hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e226	I want to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very good case and the Council of State for giving a very good answer. This is a theme that I've been away at a lot of times in the job at Stortinget. That's why it's good to hear that you're now getting an overall strategy to prevent injuries from occurring when you're so unlucky to get a disease, but also that you have a much more systematized follow-up when the disease is there and you need treatment. Then it is important to implement the NSAM strategy, so that all first-line doctors use a systematic approach to it. I could imagine asking the Council of State when it's above 50 pst. by the doctors who use this strategy, to get everyone to do it, and to have a time horizon on what is quite short. Because it's incredibly important to get this work started very quickly. It was supposed to cost nothing. On the contrary, it should significantly reduce the cost of health care by reducing the number of amputations by half, which such a strategy may involve. The second is the professional guidelines to be followed by the specialist health service. Can the government also say a little bit about the time horizon on that? Here, as she herself and the interpellant point out, a very good work is going on, for example. in Stavanger. Can such guidelines also be put in place quite quickly? That's the questions I want to focus on further, because it's getting this job up to be very fast that now becomes important. Finally, I also want to say that I very much agree with what the representative Mandt-Bartholsen said – and I think everyone agrees with that – that it is important when people first get sick and have a problem with the disease, that we do not talk about self-treatment in such a way that people feel that they are getting so sick that they may have to amputate. There is a very focus on health in the debate on disease prevention today, and that is very important. I'm very happy about that. I have very much faith in it. I have very much faith in campaigns that we should move more, smoke less and drink less and at all take responsibility for our own health. But it is very important that we manage to hold the debate in such a way that those who get sick are not blamed. For the vast majority of diseases, it's not because you do something wrong, but you're simply unlucky and you get a disease for some reason, which in most cases you can't do everything. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the work both on the preventive strategy and on the curative strategy, so I would like a little more feedback on how quickly she believes that these strategies can be implemented both in the specialist health service and in the first-line service.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e241	It costs a lot less to prevent in general than to repair. It also means savings for the Norwegian State over time both directly and indirectly in many other budgets, which are not so easy to quantify. But first of all, it is the human gains that are most important. Preventing suffering and promoting quality of life through prevention are, in fact, one of the most important tasks of the Norwegian health and care services and should be given increased priority in the years to come. I am therefore very pleased that Mr Giltun's representative focuses on prevention through this interpellation, and I am also pleased with the response that the Council of State has given from the pulpit today. We've heard earlier today numbers that show a sharp increase also among the younger groups in diabetes. We know that increased physical activity and better diet are interventions that can prevent diabetes, and this is also far more reasonable than offering drugs and other treatments when diabetes is developed. Since the benefits of prevention are noted in many different budgets, this means that there is also a need to invest in prevention in many different budgets. It is about strengthening hospitals, school health services, elderly centres, non-governmental organisations, information campaigns, etc. – measures that have been discussed here in the past. As regards the role of hospitals in prevention, it is also essential. The educational task towards patients and relatives is important, especially in the case of diabetes. Much can be prevented even when the disease has developed. Outpatients play an important role here. The complications of diabetes are serious. We've heard more: visual problems, wounds on the feet that don't grow, heart problems and kidney failure, and stroke in the worst case after a long time. For example, wounds that do not grow are: to major concerns first and foremost about the patient, but of course also about treating staff who are facing a challenge. Having to amputate a part of the body is a traumatic step to take for it. Human suffering could have been saved if it was possible to prevent it. In a multidisciplinary treatment provision, specific clinical nutrition physiology, physiotherapy and foot therapy are included. True diet contributes to good wound healing, we know, and being physically active increases blood circulation, which is essential for, for example, a wound must grow. It is important that hospitals see their responsibility to provide patients with a comprehensive treatment service. In terms of prevention where the patient lives, municipal health services also play an important role. In particular, I would like to highlight the role that elderly centres can play in the field of older people and diabetes. Through activities at the elderly centre, older people can have physical activity, increased diet and the provision of adequate foot care. This site may be an area where health professionals can provide important information. This is done in close cooperation with volunteers and non-governmental organisations, who also do a formidable job. Outreach activities may be organised from the elderly centre. It will also allow you to trap older people in different danger zones. The same applies to health stations and school health services. There is also an arena suitable to reach parents, children and young people with information and guidance on diet and activity. School health services need to be strengthened, inter alia: to become more accessible. We've seen a development, but it's not good enough everywhere. Many children and young people lack adult partners, and health sisters and school health doctors play an important role in this. Children and young people are subjected to various types of pressures from the environment and from themselves, expectations of success, having a pretty body, friends, activities, healthy diets, etc. In this one, let's say, the crossfire is important for role models, and you have someone to talk to. We believe in the Christian People's Party that prevention in general must be given greater attention to many arenas than it is today, and the specialist health service must take on its responsibilities, especially in the field of diabetes. It will pay off in the long run both socio-economically and primarily, and I will point that out again, human.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e260	It has been said very wisely, I think, in this interpellation debate so far, both from the interpellant and from the other participants in the hall. There aren't many weeks since it was a headline in one of our newspapers: diabetes epidemic. It's very worrying that diabetes 2 is a disease that more and more people get. We know something about the reasons, we know something about diet, and we know something about little physical activity. When I say that, it's not to talk about blame in relation to this, but we know something about the reasons, and then it's important to be able to create some strategies to meet this development. It's clear that when 120,000 people have diabetes 2 and the same number are likely to have it without yet discovering it, it's a huge challenge. I was last Monday at a public health conference, ‘Partnership for Public Health’, in Bergen, where the county council agreed with the county council and the municipalities in the county to really push in and join together all the good forces to do something in relation to public health. I understand that there are 17 county councils who are involved in this, and there is money on the state budget as well. It is very important to prevent, and when the Government has proposed approx. Twenty-eight million. In order to prevent the 2007 state budget, we think it is a good and good initiative. But what about those who are affected by the disease? At that time, I would like to say that I think it is very good that the Council of State answers, that is, that a person wants to support the implementation of the NSAM action programme on diabetes in general practice, as other representatives have also mentioned. It is important that general practitioners are able to diagnose and accompany patients at an early stage, and that equivalent and good procedures are ensured regardless of which doctor comes. It's actually important. It's about diabetes, and it's also about other diseases. This is also something that the Government is working on in relation to getting the quality of our health services. Then it's important that someone doesn't view diabetes patients as poor-resource patients. Patients and people have the resources to also live with the disease, and then it is important that healthcare supports patients, supports the resources that the patient has, so that one can live with the disease – live with the disease for a long time – and avoid difficult complications due to the fact that one was not aware that here one could also put in his own strategies in this fight. I think it's positive that the government will support it to get a quality from the prescribers, so that diabetes can be detected and followed up in a proper and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e271	Like the others who have spoken here, I would like to thank the interpellant for both good questions and the state council for good answers. The debate here today has shown that prevention is at least two things: prevention is to prevent disease, but prevention is also to prevent the heaviest consequences of disease first. There has been a lot of concern in the debate here on the concern about the growth of diabetes 2. However, there are also speakers in the group who have diabetes 1. The representative of the Mandt-Bartholsen was, among other things, Mr Mandt-Bartholsen. and indicated that there is perhaps a better control of the situation than there is in the case of diabetes 2. That's probably true, but at the same time I could imagine taking the opportunity here to also hit a blow for the group that we're talking about when we're talking about diabetes 1, because I think maybe it's possible to do more to prevent the consequences of disease for that group as well. It is about all those who may need a type of medicinal product actually having access to the type of medicinal product for which they can best benefit. So there are medications in the field that you receive after an individual application for Section 10(a). Then I also know that the Stortinget, in the previous period, was well, asked the Ministry of Health to also make a general assessment of the types of medicinal products that should be considered moved from Section 10(a) above to Section 9, where you will receive a refund after a prior authorisation and avoid an individual application procedure. There are some signs that drugs that provide a better quality of life for people with diabetes 1 do not reach all in the group that actually needs them. Some estimates have been made to show that a ‘stock’ is likely to be about ‘stock’. Ten thousand patients with diabetes 1 who could have benefited from this type of medicine, but it is estimated that there are 3,500 who can access that type of medicine. There are certainly some legitimate rejections, but there is some evidence that a few thousand in this group are not going to be assessed as far as that type of drug is concerned. Then I am talking about them there is never any application sent for. Once the application has been sent, I am aware that much has been done to cut the processing time, and it is today within an acceptable framework of 14 days. But it's a long way to go for someone, and someone never gets there. There are also some figures from Oslo that indicate that there are systematic, so-called west-east-marginal differences in who gets so far as it's being applied for for. It may indicate that this can be largely dependent on the patient’s own initiative. There are signs that there may be doctors – and I might stress – who refuse to do the paperwork they bring with them. Therefore, I could imagine taking the opportunity to ask the Council of State to at least look at and assess the possibility that that type of medicine could have been transferred from Section 10(a) to Section 9 of the Act. I am also aware that the Swedish Medicines Agency has identified what happens when an application is made, but I could also imagine asking the Council to consider whether some clinical experience should also be gained as to how important medicines are or are not made available to patients who need them. The first time I heard about this case was through a acquaintance, and I think most of us know people who are in the diagnostic group diabetics, whether it's 1 or 2. There was a person who had paid for this type of medicine of his own pocket, and who had experienced a dramatic improvement in the positive direction of his quality of life. It led to smaller feelings. There was a good control of blood sugar, and this led to a dramatic decrease in weight, because he had a better general condition and was able to exercise more systematically. As a result, he needed fewer doses. It also appears that these are medicinal products that, overall, can lead to lower mortality and that can reduce the use of disability pensions and sick pay. So my wish is that although it's important to focus on diabetes 2, maybe you can also include some assessments regarding the availability of drugs to the group of diabetes 1 who have an congenital disorder and who, hopefully, have to live with it for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e285	I would like to thank the Council of States, which I have also thanked, and all those who have participated in this debate. I think it has been a good debate, a very important debate. It's shown that we're all seeing big challenges, big problems, and there's a lot we can do. Perhaps the very best thing about this case is that we already have some answers. We have some things we can do. It is clear, but we have to put it into a system and, as I have said before, we have to give money. The hospital economy is not good, but the council says this is the responsibility of the hospitals, and that money is allocated in their budgets. Now there are clear political signals that there should be a escalation in the areas of psychiatry and alcohol, and that means that there will be no escalation of the prevention and treatment of somatic disorders. You don't get escalating over everything for the same money. It takes time for prevention measures to work, and it is obvious that we will have increased expenditure on amputations in the near future. We also get high additional costs of kidney failure, both in the case of transplants and dialysis treatments. It's not like you can spend the same money over and over again. When it comes to the right to get better medicines that are mentioned here, it's very important. It's also part of the prevention. Being able to use the right optimal medicine is something that society needs to contribute, but that will cost a little bit more. The same applies to diet and additional costs incurred by diabetic patients in connection with their disease. Those who follow the advice of the Government and the political signals to live as properly as possible, and receive extra costs, must have the opportunity to deduct from the tax. There's something to look at. The reason I ate the debate was actually that I wanted to show how big this topic is, to show that one of these complications has a large scale, a great prevention potential, and that there's so much in it. It also does so for each of the other latecomplications, and overall prevention work is growing. I just want to once again encourage everyone to take a look at the budgets. I think everyone will realize that it does not agree with what we have contributed so far. Maybe you could be a little bit rougher, so we get to do what everybody agrees we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e304	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I feel that in most areas there is quite a broad consensus, and that citizens do well to be able to achieve something in the future. First, I would like to agree with the speakers who have said that prevention is of course very important in all areas, such as this, and not least in this area. But at the same time, we also know – so that people don't feel guilty – that those who do everything right can also get sick. So there's no guarantee when we talk in general. Therefore, people do not have to feel guilty when they get sick, but they do not have to stand in the way of active, preventive work in all areas. So I agree with those who have been involved. In this case, early detection of the disease is important in order to take the necessary measures. It is very important that they – perhaps 120,000 people – who today do not know that they have the disease are diagnosed, so that action is taken, and that those who are already ill are properly treated, as we have been told. I also believe that the decision-making process is of exceptional importance here. That's why it's very important to implement the new program. The representative, Andersen, asked how fast this is going to take place. As I said in my main response, the Medical Association, together with the Social and Health Directorate, is required to do so. We have not set a specific date, but they have been told that this will happen quickly. I have expectations that this new program will soon be implemented by all the general practitioners in the country. It's very important. I fully agree with the representative from Mandt-Bartholsen that it is always important to know more, that is, to use up-to-date knowledge, both for those who are involved, their relatives and not least for those who work in the sector. I also believe that learning and mastering centres are important, and that we need to build more. Where we have some experience with it, we see that people get better quality of life and help with how to live with the disease, both the ones they are dealing with, and their relatives. With regard to the question from the representative Karin Andersen about the professional guidelines, there is also no fixed date for these, but it will take a little longer. Now we're going to put down a new national council that's going to take care of quality and priority, which is so very important. I think they should also have a small role in this work, but we can come back to that. I also agree with the representative Davøy that it is primarily for each and every one that it is important to do this, and that society comes second. I also agree that the elderly centres can do something more active here, and that others can also engage in outreach activities. I would like to say that I fully agree with the comments made by the representative, Mr Schjäla, that there are no people who are poor in resources we are talking about here. Finally, to the representative Christoffersen, it's clear that everyone who needs medication is going to get proper medicine. That is why it is important that we have a system that takes care of it. As of today, it is approx. The 14-day treatment period for individual treatment of applications. This is something we constantly follow up on, because people need the drugs they need to have in order to have a better quality of life and thus a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e325	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e343	Ten days ago, October 10, we marked the World Day for Mental Health. The main message was ‘see me’, and the theme focused attention on children, families and communities. Today, we are going to discuss the offer of a group of children and their mothers who most need to be seen and who need care and close follow-up. There has been broad political agreement to extend the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation, and capacity was more than doubled during the Co-operation Board. With an extended range of LAR treatments, many people have had a new chance to live a better life, and they have gained a better quality of life. With a more stable life situation, the desire for a more normalized life will also come, including. a family life. In addition, an increasing number of LAR patients are increasingly women who want to have children or who become pregnant without this planned. This requires that we facilitate a good pregnancy and a good care situation for children and families. I would like to stress that society has a special responsibility to take into account and protect the unborn. Today, the practice is that women who become pregnant while under LAR remain on methadone or Subutex through pregnancy. There is little knowledge of the long-term effects of methadone treatment on the foetus. However, it is a fact that many of the children born — between 60 and 80 pst. – have severe abstinence, lower birth weight and respiratory disorders. The Common Catalogue of Medicinal Products warns against these adverse effects and states that the product should not be used unless the benefits outweigh a potential risk. In a 2004 study conducted by Gabrielle Welle-Beach, it appears that there is an excess of creep deaths among children who have been exposed to methadone or Subutex during pregnancy. The incidence is 3.6 pst. in the case of methadone children, against 8 per mille among other infants. Although the sample is small and it is difficult to draw scientific conclusions, in my opinion this is alarming. So far, the debate on the treatment of pregnant LAR patients has mainly taken place in professional settings. Professionals argue whether it is most appropriate to leave pregnant on methadone or Subutex during pregnancy or to try to stop treatment. In my opinion, this is a question that also requires ethical and political balances. The essence of the matter is whether we are willing to expose unborn children to the significant adverse effects of a LAR treatment, or whether we are going to try to protect them from harm as far as possible. In the other maternity care, it's obvious that we're laying down a leading precautionary approach. Of course, public authorities do not recommend the use of tobacco and illicit drugs in pregnancy. Pregnancy is now recommended in total alcohol retention. In addition, the Food Authority advises pregnant people not to eat, among other things. fresh water trout of more than one kilogram, bacon and blue mould cheese, and to drink more than two cups of coffee per day. day(s) However, there are no guidelines suggesting that LAR patients are advised to discontinue methadone or Subutex prior to pregnancy. On the contrary. Many in the professional community seek continued medical treatment during pregnancy, despite the fact that the adverse effects on the foetus associated with methadone or Subutex use are likely to be significantly more serious than the risks associated with eating fresh water trout over a kilogram. I believe it must be obvious that Norwegian health authorities need to facilitate the possibility for LAR patients who are planning to have children to carry out a drug-free pregnancy. Experience shows that pregnancy is the period of life when we are more motivated than ever to change lifestyle, for the sake of the unborn child. We have the child's best in focus. At the same time, we know that pregnancy and, in particular, the subsequent period may be a vulnerable period, and it is crucial that, in particular, these women receive a good treatment and support offer that makes it safe to end drug treatment. Some believe that stopping methadone or Subutex represents a significant risk of relapse to drug use, which in that case will harm the child more than methadone treatment. I don't think we should so easily accept that this is a choice between plague and cholera. We must have ambitions to give the unborn children and their mothers the best possible offer. The best possible offer must be a close and good follow-up throughout pregnancy, preventing relapses to drug dependence and making it safe to end drug treatment with methadone or Subutex. I think most people will be motivated for this if, at the same time, they get good support, not only during pregnancy, during childbirth or in the first time afterwards, but preferably throughout the whole infant period and much longer if necessary. However, we should be able to use the facilities for forced detention under Section 6-2a of the Social Services Act if voluntary action does not take place. This provision was dealt with by the Stockholm Social Committee at the Innst. O nr. 68 for 1994-95. The Committee was then chaired by the current Minister of Health and Welfare, Brustad. It is interesting to note that the committee tightened up the Ministry's original legislative proposals, so that the consideration of the unborn child was given greater weight than the government initially proposed. In my opinion, this was an example of wise political leadership. In an article in the Evening Post on 6 October this year, researchers Helge Waal and Monica Sarfi point out that it may be problematic for the foetus to end treatment with methadone or Subutex during pregnancy itself. However, this does not preclude the advice of women planning to become pregnant to discontinue drug treatment before pregnancy is a reality. If we are to succeed in giving former addicts a drug-free pregnancy, this requires self-evident resources, of which there is already too little in drug treatment. Former Minister of Health and Welfare Ansgar Gabrielsen therefore committed 50 million. In the 2005 revised national budget, additional measures in the field of drugs specifically aimed at developing drug-free services for pregnant LAR patients. This was a clear political signal that we wanted a better offer for these children and their mothers. My question to the Minister of Health and Health is how this work is being followed up in health businesses, and what is the status of ensuring a drug-free treatment and support provision for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e369	I fully agree with the representative, Sjøli, that it is necessary to ensure that all pregnant women in Norway receive good follow-up in pregnancy, so that the child gets the best start possible. This applies to whether the woman is drug dependent or not. For drug-dependent women, who are in a particularly difficult and vulnerable situation, close follow-up is particularly important before becoming pregnant and throughout pregnancy. As the representative Sjøli points out, society has a special responsibility to see and hear young people who do not have votes in the public debate. The pre-variant principle has been established in Norwegian maternity care. In the professional guidelines for maternity care, the Social and Health Directorate recommends that prescription of medicinal products be limited to cases where the benefits to the woman outweigh the risk to the foetus. Therefore, all women in LARs are instructed to prevent pregnancy. The Social and Health Directorate recommends that all pregnant drug addicts, whether in LAR or not, be offered drug-free treatment. They also stress that many women who become pregnant after entering the LAR convey that they want to step down on the drugs during pregnancy in order to reduce the effects on the foetus. These are provided with comprehensive assistance during degression and a gradual and cautious tapering to the lowest effective dose is recommended until birth. The mental state of pregnant women is of increasing importance to the psychosocial development of young people in recent years, and the directorate stresses that it is of course important for the services to have good contact with mother during pregnancy. For pregnant women in LAR, no use of drugs is accepted. The Social and Health Directorate has assessed that the threat of coercive treatment for women who are unable to access the drugs they are on in the LAR may lead to their not telling about pregnancy until very late in pregnancy. It may also apply to other pregnant drug addicts. In the case of poor treatment where there is a risk to the health of the child, it is always assessed whether to take the initiative to promote the issue of coercion under social service law. According to the directorate, there is also disagreement in Norwegian trade unions about the continuation of LAR in pregnancy, as the representative Sjøli was involved. Some environments place full emphasis on drug-free pregnancy. In other countries — still according to the directorate — methadone treatment is initiated by pregnant heroin-dependent seas if the woman is not under the LAR. I am very concerned that we need to get a good professional basis in this area. In order to further strengthen the knowledge base, the Social and Health Directorate has asked the Knowledge Centre to provide a knowledge summary on pregnant women in medically assisted rehabilitation. This is to provide the best possible basis for guidance and professional recommendations on services. To the representative of Sjølis, I would first like to inform you that the Ministry of Health and Health, by letter of June 2005, as the representative is well aware, asked regional health companies to follow this up. Regional health establishments shall, within the limit of 50 million. kr, ensure the provision of pregnant drug addicts who are under the LAR but who do not wish to use such drugs during pregnancy. It also states that the aim is to facilitate a drug-free offer for this group in order to avoid harming the young. It was also foreseen that close follow-up and necessary protection against relapse to drug abuse should be ensured for the user. Pregnant drug addicts are a high priority. Practice shows that all pregnant drug addicts, including pregnant women in LAR, are offered a drug-free offer and treatment. This is in line with the directorate's recommendation. In addition, pregnancy in LAR is subject to structured and close follow-up throughout pregnancy, and this is absolutely necessary. I would also like to stress that the services under the law have an obligation to assess whether to initiate the placement of a pregnant drug addict in an institution without her consent. It applies to the entire pregnancy. These kids and mothers are, as I said, among our most vulnerable patients, and they also have high-quality offers. Both specialist health services, municipal services and child protection must cooperate on a long-term offer with good support and follow-up, often over several years. For the sake of the child, I see it as very important that pregnancy is drug-free. I therefore believe that it is good practice that we first offer a drug-free offer to the pregnant drug addicts. In those cases where LAR is considered to be the best option, I think it is very important that a monitoring of the development of pregnancy is very careful and that these women are closely followed all the way. I see that services are also facing some difficult choices and dilemmas. As I mentioned in the introduction, I stress that we will have a better knowledge base in this area as soon as possible. I will also follow up on asking for new technical recommendations and guidance on services. The government considers it very important to improve the quality of the provision of pregnant drug addicts in LAR. It is also one of the reasons why we have strengthened it in proposals for the next year's government budget, especially linked to pregnant women and their children. It will also contribute to enhancing the competence of services, e.g.: by developing guidance material for health and social personnel. I have been informed that per person. On 31 August, 4,000 patients were in medically assisted rehabilitation. Of these, about a third are women, or 1,300 are people. Most of these are in fertile age. As the representative Sjøli also points out, it is a health policy objective for those in need of medically assisted rehabilitation to do so. We must therefore expect a further increase in the number of patients in the LAR in the coming years. I'm going to follow developments closely, and I'm going to assess the necessary governance measures. I also want regional health companies to report on the number of pregnant women in LAR per year. year of its annual notification. I also want to know what kind of offers they receive, including what kind of follow-up they are given, and what kind of cooperation is there between specialist health services, municipal services and child protection. This has led the government to gain more knowledge of the field and to gain experience of what is actually happening in the different regions. The aim is to get a better overview of treatment provision, so that we can possibly change it and do it even better, and also get a better starting point for guidance for those who work in this difficult but very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e397	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and good answer. I am very pleased that the work that the Cooperation Government started in this area is being followed up so well by the Council of State. I would also like to thank the Council of State for so clearly expressing the high priority of pregnant drug users, and for the emphasis that pregnant women in the LAR must also be offered drug-free services and treatment. It is important to protect unborn life from harm and ensure that mothers receive good support and follow-up throughout pregnancy, and, as I was at the beginning, even after birth and perhaps for many, many years afterwards. It was also very clear to the Council of State. It has been demonstrated that the family situation during the infant period is crucial for the future development of children. I guess we all know, we who have had young children, that the infant period can be demanding. Parents who have been drug addicts in the past may be particularly vulnerable during this period. It is therefore essential that sufficient resources are allocated within the drug field to a close follow-up. It is good that the government has also followed it up through an additional allocation for next year. It is also important to have a good and close follow-up of the families of those who have been drug addicts in the past. I want to ask the Council of State if she wants to ensure that family-based support measures are prioritised in the notified escalation plan in the drug field, so that children and parents can get the best possible starting point for their family life. When the Social Committee considered the provision for the compulsory detention of pregnant drug addicts, the Committee considered that the risk of harm was an adequate coercive basis to which we had been subjected, while the Ministry had not taken such a great deal of account of the child. I would first of all like to hear about these family-based support measures, but also about the extent to which the Council of State guidelines to be developed in the drug field, which has been discussed in the past, will follow up and provide clear guidance specifically for this group of women.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e412	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Sjöli, for putting this matter on the agenda. It's an important thing, which makes us face some dilemmas in practical life. On the issue of family-based support measures, I fully agree with the representative, Sjøli, that it is important to have it. We know that many of the families we're talking about here need special follow-up, preferably over several years. It is a responsibility of the municipal services, for example: the protection of children and the specialist health service. It is very important that there is cooperation between these on what is going to happen. This is something the Government is actively working on. Of course, it is also important that the municipalities and hospitals have enough money to do what they should actually do. When we step up our efforts for drug treatment – we are now also working with an obligatory escalation plan to go a little further along that path – we will not least strengthen our efforts towards children of drug addicts and/or mentally ill parents. I believe it is an area that has been given too little attention until today. For some of these children there will be a difficult start, and many will have problems later if this is not caught early enough. Much attention will be paid to this in the notified escalation plan for the drug field. This will also be the focus of the guidelines to be developed. We want to cooperate closely here, of course with professional environments, employees, relatives and users, but also with non-governmental organisations, which I believe can play a role in this area. When it comes to the question of coercion, I think, first of all, it is very important that we are active on the leading goods line. All women under the LAR should receive, and sheep, active prevention guidance to avoid their becoming pregnant. Fortunately, of those who get pregnant, most are involved in voluntary dwindling, which then requires very close follow-up. So that's what the representative, Sjöli, points out, is also the possibility of using the coercive paragraph. What's to be given weight here, I think it's hard to be absolutely absolute, because here's the individual difference, and that necessarily has to be judgement. But what we have to have in mind here is the best thing for the child; that's what has to be at the top. So we know that here it's about vulnerable people, in difficult situations, and of course we have to take that into account. But that means that in this area isn't all completely black and white.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e423	I would also like to begin by commending the courageous initiative taken by the representative, Mr Sjøli. Children of pregnant women in medically assisted rehabilitation are a demanding topic because there are still more questions than answers. As she herself mentioned in the article, there is a debate that has largely gone into professional environments and not so much in politics. It is demanding because it affects the most vulnerable we have, namely the children, and because it affects mothers who are often very ill and who are in a very demanding situation in life. Of course, it is demanding to be dependent on drugs and also to be responsible for an unborn life, and soon for a child. The hope of a turning point in life is in such a situation very strong. Treatment services for the sake of abstinence must be central. Just as centrally as both the interpellant and the state councils have been involved, follow-up after birth and beyond. I think the Council of State has had a wise and humble approach to this complex field. I think there is reason to be satisfied that the Council of State says that caring for the children is the most central thing. At the same time, the Council of State underlines the difficult situation of women in life and the need to take care of them in a very special way and with great care. The pregnant women under the LAR scheme have regular contact with the health care system. I'm more concerned about those who aren't, and how we're going to follow them up. It is therefore interesting to hear the State Council refer to those countries that are initiating methadone treatment for pregnant heroin addicts, although the woman is not under the LAR. In the Council's response, we get a good impression that pregnant drug addicts are highly priority. In the case of poor treatment where there is a risk to the child, social services promote enforcement under the social services law. I think that treatment without consent is an interesting track to follow. It is easy to understand, as the Council of State put it, that the service here faces very difficult choices and dilemmas in such matters – a vulnerable permanent mother and an unborn life. We do not know if the adverse effects a child is exposed to during Mother's treatment with, for example. methadone. Some trade unions have a lot of knowledge about mother, children and alcohol. The city clinic can be mentioned, and there are probably more. I want to ask the Council of State to gain experience from these clinics. It is reassuring that the Council of State keeps the line on the matter both against the centres of competence and against health businesses. Unfortunately, we know that there will be an increasing problem and a major challenge for Norwegian health care in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e438	Like other speakers, I also want to thank the interpellant warmly for raising this enormously important debate in the Storting. It is true that there is a demanding debate, and in many ways it is much more than a political debate. It is also a technical debate, because this is so much professional disagreement in this area. Not long ago we read in the papers that only in Ullevål University Hospital, 15 children with methadone abstinence will be born this year. She said that she was very concerned, and that ‘the notified extension of options for treating younger patients with methadone will increase the number of ‘methadone children’. I think it's scary signals. It is primarily the children who need to be protected, and if we want to, it is also possible here to think prevention. I mention this, because I think there's a connection between the use of LAR and the year classes we allow. There is a political discussion in Norway about reducing the age of LAR, which I want to express in this context that I am concerned about. We know very little about long-term harm to children born to a methadone-using mother, or about long-term harm to children who themselves have to be treated medically after birth because of their mother’s drug use. Some pregnant methadone users say they are not getting a good enough offer today. I quote from a media review a short time ago, where it was said: ‘We are affected by lack of knowledge, little cooperation and prejudice.’ It was felt that the treatment device was ‘unsavory and fragile’ and that you did not get the help you needed. I am very pleased that the Council of State is quite clear that it is necessary to ensure a drug-free treatment for these women. At the same time, it's scary to read these statements. I don't know if this can be a single pisser – let's hope so. At least I am glad that the Council of State says that all these should be offered drug-free treatment. We know media. We know that there is often not as much to be done before there is a big look-up, but I still worry about these suggestions – which were very short a time ago. And I ask that the Council of State also follow closely, that she perhaps pick them up and investigate. I believe that it was in one particular area these statements came. It is essential that pregnant women receiving medically assisted rehabilitation receive alternative help to stop these dangerous medicines immediately after pregnancy is known — if possible. As the interpellant has also been involved, it is perhaps just this time that most people will be motivated to stop. And it may be right in this period that the child is given his or her chance — something that the Council of State also pointed out in its statement. But then it is important that the offer is there – there and then, when mother is motivated. Finally, we can see that there is still disagreement in the professional community in this area. The disagreement may be that you don't have enough knowledge, simply. I think it is positive that the Knowledge Centre has been commissioned to do this, because it is quite clear that we need more information, more knowledge, more competence and – I think – more research here. It is positive that there will be a new supervisor in this area. I have read with great interest a counsellor from Health East, from Aker University Hospital, who came in 2001. I guess the Council of State is talking about a more central supervisor, of which everyone can benefit. It's nodding in the hall. I think it's important in this area that we get a guide that gets updated regularly. The supervisor from Aker University Hospital was thus created in 2001. Much of what it says is very good, but perhaps something should be reconsidered and done even better – it has happened a lot on the methadone treatment side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e465	I would like to thank both the interpellant and the Council of State for very factual and good information. The aim of the once-proposed proposal was to allow pregnant patients on the LAR to have a drug-free pregnancy. In this respect, I want to go back in time and look at what was actually the situation in Norway at the end of the 1990s. At that time, Norway was the country in Europe with the highest number of lives lost — considering the population — due to overdose. The fact that we choose to help drug users with methadone or Subutex is based on a recognition that no one can help, is the result very quickly a disaster for the individual. Helping drug users – whoever it may be, whether it is a pregnant woman, a child or an adult man – is our duty. If we can in any way help get these people out of their hell, it's our duty to do it. It's also our duty that people in particular follow up on those that apply here, which the interpellant also mentions. I think we should recognize that there are so many difficult choices in this process that we will end up with a very individual treatment of the individual. All the way in such a problematic case, it's so that it can quickly be a very negative backside. It's a problem we have to deal with. It is also the case that you end a treatment, you always have to ask yourself, what is the result there and then? We see today that most of these problems are offered a drug-free pregnancy with LAR. It would be interesting to get a grip on the numbers of darkness related to those who are not in the LAR today. It would have been very interesting about the future. Yes, we'll help. We need to help as far as we can, and we have a special responsibility. But I also think we should recognize that no matter how wide we want to embrace, there might be someone who misses out of our arms when it comes to this real problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e482	This is a very timely and useful interpellant, and the dialogue between the interpellant and the Council of State was a constructive dialogue which I think could lead to in the future. I asked for the word because I would like to put the problem that we're discussing into an ever-small historical perspective. There has been a dramatic change over the last few decades in our knowledge of the relationship between mother's behavior and child's condition during pregnancy. Going back a few decades, the general attitude to this was of carelessness. It was e.g. low attention to the relationship between the diet during pregnancy and the child’s birth weight. There was little attention — virtually no attention — on the relationship between smoking habits and the child’s condition, and there was even less attention on the relationship between alcohol use and what happens to the child during pregnancy. Today, we know incessantly much more than what you knew before, and the awareness of this has become much greater. This is an unprecedented positive development. But just when you see it in such a context — and this was also the interpellant inside — it becomes a cross of thought that in some cases we not only accept but actually authorize, through the way we set up the health service, that some children can be born with significant harm due to the use of toxins that are far more dangerous than nicotine and alcohol, not to talk about different types of foods. What makes the cross of thought even bigger, as I said, is that in one case it is about individual freedom of choice in terms of lifestyle during pregnancy, while in the other case it is done under public authority and with official authorisation. It's impossible to know with certainty what is the correct answer in this situation. That is what I think emerged both in the inter-pellant's presentation and in the replies of the Council of State. But the obvious thing that should be agreed on is that we need to step up our efforts to acquire knowledge, to get a safer overview of the risks — and the extent of the risk — of methadone use during pregnancy. It's also true, of course, that carrying a child is a very special life situation, which is certainly experienced in a very special way, which gives a very special motivation, even when it comes to seeing the possibility of changing a life situation in a positive direction. I also understand that there is complete agreement in this debate that everything that is at all possible to bet on that motivation, capture that motivation, and enable the woman in that situation to use the motivation in a forward-looking way – taking into account both her own situation and the situation of the future child. The risk of establishing treatment provision of the paradoxical type — which is based on the principle of ‘evil exaggeration’, i.e. to mitigate the use of poisons — is that in the public system it is estimated that this should work alone, and therefore does too little with regard to the follow-up that is clearly the prerequisite for methadone treatment to produce a positive result at all. One of them is cheaply purely cost-effective. The second is expensive for expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e497	I would like to thank the Council of State and the members of the Committee for a good and constructive debate. I am pleased that the Council of State proposes to follow up the work that the Cooperation Government also did in this area. I believe that there is a broad consensus that pregnant drug users still need to be given high priority, and that special attention needs to be paid to the need to provide drug-free treatment to pregnant women receiving medically assisted rehabilitation. And I'm very glad that the Council of States so strongly underlined that. I have understood that the evaluation of the LAR projects was completed in the autumn of 2004 and that the Health and Social Directorate has started working on the professional guidelines, which I was working on. Research is also ongoing on children of LAR patients both at the Institute for Clinical Drug Problems and at the Aline Children’s Centre. What we already know, however, is that children exposed to methadone or Subutex during pregnancy are exposed to injury in the form of withdrawals, respiratory disorders, low birth weight and all this we've had in the past, and that there is also an increased risk of sudden infant death, and that's serious. In my opinion, it is more than serious enough to work to prevent more and more children from being exposed to such damage. As I was also concerned, the social committee earlier dealt with the provision on the forced detention of pregnant addicts. The Committee considered that the risk of injury was an adequate coercive basis, while the Ministry had proposed that there should be a risk of significant damage. In other words, the Committee set out a broad range of considerations, and I believe that this should also apply in relation to those who receive medically assisted rehabilitation. So, finally, a very specific question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the new guidelines drawn up for LAR treatment ensure that mothers planning pregnancy are advised to discontinue methadone treatment before pregnancy occurs, so that they can avoid causing these harm to the foetus? And will she give clear leadership to those who are responsible for this offer out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e512	I will also join the interpellant in her view that this has been a good debate. To it with knowledge: I can promise that I will take care of – and that is why we have now given the mission to the Knowledge Centre – that we get more knowledge. It's not very easy as politicians to know what's right, when it's professionally as much disagreement as it actually is. But it does not stand in the way that, based on the knowledge we have today – and we know something – we should act on it. I will ensure that this is followed up both to hospitals and to those with whom we are assigned to control and cooperate, and not least because this is a group that is being highly prioritised also in the future. The previous government also acknowledged that psychiatry and drug treatment should be given higher priority than somatic care. It's also a mission that we're following. So far it turns out that from what we know from 2005, we have succeeded. I guess that's going to be the situation this year as well, and that's going to be it for years to come. There is then no doubt that in the new professional guidelines we are introducing, we should of course follow up on what is currently the current policy in this area, namely that in these cases all should be offered drug-free treatment. To show how complicated this is -- I'm not an expert in the field and I don't have all the knowledge about this, far from it -- I'm going to say that it's so hard for others to end up with something that it's not just to pinch – and then you end up. It's not like quitting with a couple of cups of coffee, rather like quitting smoking. I think it's even harder than that, although it's -- now I see the President that I'm not going to say more about smoke -- many difficult choices. That's my point. That's why it's also very difficult to have completely blatant opinions about what's right, except that we're going to have the best of the child's eyes – that's what needs to be the guide all the way to everything we put up with. So I'm glad that many in this phase are motivated and prepared to step down. We're going to follow that up. It's also the fact that the central guide we're now making, we have to make sure that all the time is up-to-date with the new knowledge we're getting, so that more people get knowledge about what to do. I also believe it is vital that we pursue this track and do what we can to prevent one from becoming pregnant when one is on the LAR. But someone will be, and this is the way the world is: it's not always quite simple. When it comes to the question of coercion and where the bustant or not a bustant should be in relation to it, I believe that we must have an ongoing assessment of that. I am aware of what the social committee said in its time, and I am also of the opinion that if no other benefit and one sees that this will carry very wrong in place in relation to the fetus, it is clear that there is an opportunity that lies there, and that can be used to the most extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e528	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-20.ana.ud1632e539	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
