ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15, until the end of the current map. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e68	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated up to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and up to 5 minutes to each of the other parties. In addition, it is proposed to allocate up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to three lines after contributions from the main speakers from each group and up to five lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e77	The exclusive right of mail to postage of closed-addressed mail currently includes correspondence weighing up to 50 grams. In December 2004, the Government of Bondevik II submitted a proposal to wind up the exclusive right to the Post as of 1 January 2007, cf. St. pp. No 34 for 2004-2005. The proposal was adopted in March 2005 by the Stortinget against the votes of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party. After the election, we have, as we are all familiar with, a new government and a red-green majority. For this reason, the majority of the Committee has decided that the Storting will follow the Innst today. S. No 182 for 2005-2006 on maintaining the exclusive right of Post Norway AS. Today we keep our promise and cancel the decision made by the previous bigotry. The exclusive right is a good instrument to ensure the financing of the additional costs of the Post in relation to the universally commercially unprofitable postal services. Together with any direct State transfers, the profits from the exclusive right contribute to the financing of the additional costs of the business-unprofitable postal services. For 2006, it has been assumed that the exclusive profits, estimated at 310 million. kr, is large enough to cover the additional costs. As a result, there are no appropriations for the purchase of postal services above the national budget in 2006, and this money can thus be used for other important tasks in society. Sweden is required to distribute the item five days a week, compared with six days in Norway. Despite the fact that the requirement is already lower in Sweden than in Norway, the Posten Sweden has asked the Swedish authorities to consider reducing the requirements. The competitive situation in the Swedish market is likely to contribute to Posten Sweden's desire to deliver mail less than five days a week. Today, the Stortinget ensures that both individual households and businesses throughout the country are provided with good postal services. Like postage all over the country stays standing, and everyone will get mail delivered six days a week. It can seem obvious to many, because that's how we've been used to the Post being and going to be. But the previous government clearly wanted to change this. We want to continue a well-functioning postal service that is accessible to everyone, with good services at reasonable prices. The decision to be taken by the Stortinget today ensures this precisely. The Government and Stortinget will thereby reverse the desire of the previous government to free up the postal market from 1 January 2007. The opposition claims that it is necessary to deregulate the market because it is announced that the EU will do so in 2009. A number of EU countries are waiting and critical for such an opening. The outcome from the EU is therefore not safe. The Government and the majority want the Item to be a national instrument to ensure that key infrastructure is available to all at a reasonable price. The entry has an important social responsibility, which we want to strengthen before the competitive situation in Norway changes from 2009. Norway is now actively working towards the EU to take decisions to ensure that we can maintain a good and reasonable postal service throughout the country. The most important thing for us is that any deregulation is not at the expense of universal service requirements and that the country as a whole has the same postage. Today, most countries have the exclusive right to provide comprehensive services with good and reasonable postal services. Few EU countries have already liberalised the postal market or are planning to do so. Among countries outside the EU, only New Zealand worldwide has fully opened up the postal market to competition. Experience from liberalised countries shows that they are unable to meet these objectives. In Sweden, the review of regulated postal services shows that large-volume corporate customers have benefited from the competitive outsourcing. In this context, we can only note that, for the Progress Party, it is clearly more important with cheaper mail for large businesses than that most people are to be delivered post six days a week and have the same postage across the country. In contrast to the Right and Advance Party, we also, through real policy, not only through rhetoric, want the Post to remain a national instrument of good service to all. The most important thing in the future is to arrive at a new concession that can further develop the positive development of the Post. The availability of post offices has increased in the development of Post in Store, and opening hours have widened in many places. The new concession, to come in 2007, must make one of our most important societal tasks even more robust for an uncertain future. Our starting point is clear: Norway should be guaranteed good access to postal services. A well-functioning postal service is an important social service, which we want to preserve and develop. The annual report of postal and telecommunications regulators on the development of the services imposed on society shows that overall service levels have improved significantly in recent years. In addition to increasing the availability of Post dispatch units, such as: by increasing the number of Post in Stores, customer satisfaction has also improved significantly, especially for Post in Stores. The quality of transmission of priority mail has been greatly improved during the concession period. Delivery rates are among the best in the world. 99.97 pst. by all households, mail is delivered six days a week, and this is also among the best in the world. The Party of Progress, the Right and the Left indicate that many of these measures come because of the monopoly’s liquidation. But all this has been implemented – and note: – with monopoly in this country. The Party of Advancement and the Right further claims that the Government is going back in time and going backwards into the future – at the same time. How is this possible? This shows the level of precision of the analysis coming from the opposition. They also show that the Post is an offensive and beneficial enterprise. Just this is the point. This is also true, but it happens in a monopoly situation. In my view, it is not very attractive to deregulate the postal market, but it would be particularly unwise and, in the opinion of the government parties, unlucky for Post Norway AS if the Norwegian postal market were to be opened up to competition from companies with large capital strengths that can operate with a base in their own protected domestic market. This would have been the case if we were to do as the Bondevik II government wanted, and enforce the deregulation. I think there's reason to ask why it's so important for the opposition with this deregulation when today's situation works very well. The financing of commercially unprofitable services through exclusive rights and unitary portfolio requirements is a more solidarity scheme than increasing government budget appropriations. Moreover, such a scheme is not unique to the postal sector. In the field of aviation, too, we have a system of solidarity, which covers the deficit at regional airports with profits from the largest airports. The deficit at Avinor’s regional airports in 2006 is fully financed in this way. I believe it is a correct and good decision that the Stortinget should make today. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Council of States for having demonstrated the power of action in this matter, and through this we have received enough evidence that the Government is on the right track and is constantly delivering by following up the Soria Moria declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e121	I record that the representative Wickholm in today's Dagbladet has written that «for Frp, it is more important with cheaper mail for the big businesses than that most people should receive mail delivered 6 days a week and use the same postage across the country». Let me ask you a question as to whether the representative of Wickholm has read the position and what the Progress Party has said, and will the representative regret the false allegations about the views he claims the Progress Party has on this matter? Has the representative Wickholm mistrusted the Post and all the employees who say they are ready to meet the competition and want to prepare for what is likely to happen in 2009, when the EU chooses to liberalise and open up full competition in the postal market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e130	I thank you for the question. As I explained in my statement, there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether the EU is actually going to implement this deregulation of the postal market. As I said, it would be very unwise for Norway to face a situation where we have different conditions of competition for the Post Norway compared to the postal companies in the other EU countries. Then I believe that the Progress Party cannot simply claim that they are for things without making visible the way in which they should follow up the proposals. I think it's a wise arrangement that we spend the profit from the money the Post is making on the major broadcasts, to finance correspondence for ordinary people. I also think it is a bad idea that we should take money from, for example. kindergartens and hospitals to subsidise postage in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e139	I would like to thank the representative for a committed contribution, a warm defence for an ideology that says no to competition and yes to monopoly. What the representative did not mention in his statement is that all postal services relating to letters over 50 grams are exposed to competition. The entry Norway is doing very well in that competition. In the high castle of social democracy, Sweden, the post-monopoly has been lifted for more than ten years. The representative still showed that it is the big businesses that have earned this. But he says nothing about who has lost, or if someone has lost. That's how the opposition here in the house wants it to be six days post-transport, and we want it to be one-porto. What, then, is the danger of opening up the last part of the postal market to competition? Is there anything other than ideological skyscrapers that prevents it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e146	I thank the representative of Greece for an excellent question. There's clearly other things than ideology that make us choose to do what we're doing now. Like the Workers' Party, the right is in a situation where we have limited funds to spend on the state budget. We therefore believe that it would not be very fortunate if we were to finance post-transmission six days a week and unit portfolio by taking money from possible kindergartens or hospitals. I expect the representative of Greece to agree. We therefore think it is much better that the strong commercial players in Norway who send a lot of mail are involved in subsidising the correspondence for most people here in the country. In this way, we achieve the best in social democracy and, as this government stands for, a good mixed economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e153	The representative of Truls Wickholm began his speech by saying that we are today securing the Posten's future in Norway. With all due respect for what is happening today — there are two Bondevik governments who have helped shape the development of the Post Norway. It's a success story, despite the fact that today's government parties have been fighting all the way. Now we know that it's not just the opposition parties that want to develop the Post, let the former government add up to it, but it also wants the Post Norway AS itself. I think the company deserves incredible praise for the job they have done in a conversion process where they have brought with them the trade unions on the road, and they have delivered results that are glittering. My question is, what does the Workers' Party know that will count more than what the Post itself knows about its future development?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e162	I thank the representative for the question. As Sahl said, there is every reason to give great commendation to the Post Office for the conversion work they have been through. The majority of the population are also trying not to underestimate what the Post Norway has done, and the improvement in the offer that has been made to very many people. It is also the case that this government does not regard the Post Norway as a purely commercial operator in the market. We believe that the Post is there to perform very important societal tasks and to be an infrastructure network for the whole country. It is then worrying when some municipalities report that they are afraid to lose their postal services if the Post Norway would be allowed to decide for itself. Here politicians must take overall responsibility and look at what is best for the whole country, not just for the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e169	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e173	The question of maintaining the exclusive right to send letters is a fundamental question. What this really is about is whether we, as politicians, should take care of the interests of consumers or whether it is the trade unions that are to govern the country. The forces opposed to competition, which once again reverse previous decisions taken in this Chamber, show a clear left triangle. At the same time, the same parties do not seem to be able to see the challenges that will have to be addressed when the EU decides that all countries must abolish their monopolies. What should happen to employees and businesses when they have not been given the opportunity to convert to this? I fear that the majority, with their proposal for a decision, does the Post a service of bears when you just close your eyes to the trends that show a future of increased competition for services. The majority of cases have been dealt with on several occasions. It was decided by the 2004–2005 session that the exclusive right of the Post to post over 50 grams should expire from 1 January 2007. It's this decision that the red-greens now want to rematch. The red-greens claim that the adopted removal of Posten's exclusive right by letter will mean a lower postal offer, and that this will particularly affect the districts. Furthermore, the Government claims that the changes will contribute to a decrease in service quality. This is what the socialists always claim, but that is repeatedly disproved. The Progress Party believes it is a pity that the Red-Greens do not believe that the Post will be able to meet the competition from other actors. The Progress Party considers it very sad that the majority does not have greater confidence in such a good business with several thousand skilled employees, where it has previously proved that they are able to change in a good and positive way, and not least that they have managed to meet competition from other players in those areas where competition is already in place. The Progress Party is not afraid that the proposal for a little more competition will weaken Posten Norge AS. On the contrary, we are convinced that the Post, as the skilled company it is, will use the time until 2009 to position itself, so that it is equipped to compete when the EU liberalises its postal market. The government's proposals also come into a strange light when it is known that in most areas where full competition has been opened up, both prices, selection and quality have become far better than what they were before competition. I would like to highlight one area in which competition has been very clearly shown to work very well, namely the daily food industry. This is an industry that has clearly shown that when you get competition and it gets real, prices go down and quality goes up. This happens because you want to provide the best service, have the best prices and new products, so that customers are satisfied and come back. Nor is it the case that food is significantly more expensive in the districts than in the central districts, precisely because the chains know that customers recognize the brand name, whether you're in Oslo or you're in the Kirkenes. I am convinced that this will also be the case for the Post Office and possibly others who want to send letters. Although the exclusive right disappears, I am convinced that the Post, with its reputation and confidence in the market, will be very successful in competing with other actors. I believe that the government parties in their argument blackpaint the consequences of liberalising the monopoly, which is not a basis for looking at the experience of those countries that have already liberalised their postal services. Here, it has been shown that the former monopolist has managed very well, and that users have received an equally good offer after opening up to several actors. Finally, I just want to express my amazement that such a small part of the Post Office's business as the communication of letters below 50 grams actually is, is going to trigger a demand for the continuation of such a serious regulation as that of a monopoly in fact is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e191	I would like to ask the representative of Hoksrud a question. The party of progress claims that they are for the most part for people. But in this case, as in so many other cases, there is reason to put a big question mark on this. Because in this case, the big business party is the most. The liberalisation of which the Progress Party is a member will, at best, lead to a reduction in the cost of portfolios by the industrial mass mail, and the most important thing for people is what will finance this. Is the representative comfortable sending the bill for liberalisation to ordinary people, or is the Progress Party also going to send cheques to people, perhaps with cheap postage, in order for the market to shop stamps with its own favorites?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e198	I thank the representative for the question. This is the typical argument of those who oppose competition and want monopoly. I have faith in competition. Telenor, which was previously a monopoly company, and where it is now open to full competition, has shown that it is a capable company, capable of competing, offering fairer prices to customers and better quality of its services. It shows that when you remove the monopoly and open up competition, it gets better for everyone, including private customers. I am convinced that the Post will still be able to deliver very good services to customers – to individuals as well as to businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e205	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e208	This case is probably an example of the fact that the red-green government is putting Norway in reverse – something we in the transport policy are now starting to become friends with. The right does not agree that the exclusive right of Post Norge AS is essential in order to continue to provide reasonable and good postal services throughout the country. I refer to Innst. S. No 132 for 2004-2005 ‘to abolish the exclusive right of Post Norway AS’, where the majority of the Committee stressed that today’s good quality of postal services would be maintained throughout the country even after the winding-up of the exclusive right. The main objective of the majority was that the provision of services in the districts should not be weakened by the termination of the exclusive right of the Post. The entry Norge AS itself wishes to be in the forefront of developments within the European Union as regards the liberalisation of the postal market and aims at opening up EU postal markets to free competition from 1 January 2009. At the same time, it is not desirable for Norway to be prevented in the future from imposing high requirements on universal service, continuing unit portfolios and ensuring continued postal distribution six days a week. It is positive experience from other countries that monopoly on the postal market has been abolished. The item’s adaptation to an increasingly competitive situation has already helped to increase the number of points of dispatch available, to increase the quality of delivery of priority letters, to increase customer satisfaction, to ensure that delivery rates are among the best in the world, and to improve public awareness of the complaints management system. These are arguments that the representative, Mr Wickholm, also used in his statement. But it was an outstanding tribute to the postal policy of the Bondevik II government as it appeared, and I thank you for that. The right will vote against the vote today's motion for a resolution, which is behind the red-green parties. We will vote against the proposal, and we will stand on what we have said before, namely that competition will also benefit the postal market. In March 2005, the Storting decided to terminate the exclusive right of Posten Norge AS from 1 January 2007. The Post Norway itself wanted to abolish the exclusive right, and the Post has established competing activities for the State postal services in Sweden, where the exclusive right was abolished in the 1990s, and in Denmark, where one is in the same situation as in Norway. I want to commend Posten Norge AS for offensive bets. We fear that this effort can now be reversed by the red-green majority government. The entry is positive for the removal of the exclusive right because it will give them an opportunity to lie in front of the development. We also believe that this will help the Post to be well rusted, and will be able to compete when the EU is likely to liberalise and open the postal market in 2009. The government's suggestion is to go back in time. This could contribute to harming the ability of the Post Norway AS to meet the future competition. As I said, the Post appears to be a very offensive enterprise, which is both innovative and innovative, and which dares to bet. Some private operators have prepared to compete with the Post when the monopoly was to be abolished from 1 January 2007. Such an enterprise is located in my own country, namely the local Post Office, which is currently distributing mail in the Kongsberg region. This company looked forward to the Posten's exclusive right to cease, and to have the opportunity to compete with Posten also on the distribution of letters below 50 grams. The proposal to maintain the exclusive right of the Post is therefore a major step backwards for this company and could possibly help the company to assess its plans and the possibility of further existence. Right is disappointed, but not at all surprised that the Government in the area by region is trying to stop a positive development in which several actors are free to do so. The right is more concerned with providing users with a good offer through competition for all types of postal services than with maintaining their monopoly position. Increased competition contributes to new dynamics in the market, increased customer focus, development of new products, performance improvements and improved accessibility and service provision. As previously pointed out, the Government of Bondevik II would adapt the legislation to specific Norwegian circumstances, including Norway’s scattered housing patterns. The entry Norge AS would have reaped considerable benefits from obtaining adaptations and experience prior to a development which in any case will occur as a result of the EEA Agreement. What's the government afraid of? It seems that all competition is seen as an evil. But have people and businesses lost their lives because the telecommunications monopoly was lifted? Has it been lost that the mobile network has been opened up to competition? Has competition been lost in aviation? As citizens, have we lost sight of the removal of the NRK monopoly? Have we lost sight of the competitive nature of road construction? The answer is unequivocally no! But just as surely as competition has led to a better offer, it is that one or more of today's government parties have voted against new proposals that have given us more choice, improved framework conditions for business, given more players the chance, and created new jobs at the same time. I hope the government removes its ideological skylights and thinks of consumers, customers and businesses and not just listen to LO's claim to the permanent protection of state monopolies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e252	I understand right there that in aviation it is okay that the major airports contribute to the financing of the small airports. That's very good. Income from central areas goes to the districts. But in this case, the Right thinks differently. It is with great wonder that I read that the Right goes into a system of government purchases that is to finance six days' load and equal price of stamps throughout the country. Is this a new line in the transport policy we see from the Right? Anyway, it's important now to hear from the Right what they want to downgrade to make room for the extra millions to be spent on government purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e257	Now it's being tried from the largest government party that if you move the bill somewhere else, it's going to go down on something. What is the reality is that there is a system today that allows the Post to subsidize the unit portfolio across the country and also contribute to six days of mail delivery. This is clearly very good for the Post because they have also been given the opportunity to compete in other markets. The Committee was at the Post office before – or was it after – Christmas and got very clearly illustrated what the Post actually made money on. There were a lot of different businesses than what goes on the smallest letters of less than 50 grams. I can mention Nor-Cargo, and I can mention foreign companies that the Post is now running. This has been facilitated by the Bondevik government and the bulk of the population in the last period. The Post has been given the opportunity to compete and become a powerful company. Then the Post can also handle this by getting competition on the smallest letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e266	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e270	The post is to be sent by post. It means this government – our new red-green government. It's not supposed to be the way Right now says clearly, that it's just one thing, that a company should spend the most money, and then give a bluff in what it means for customers, especially the customers who live in pig-grown areas. They have to assume that the bill is going to rise, for everyone who knows the right in position knows that there is one thing that is important to the right, and that is tax-free. And there's another thing that's not so important, that we've seen time and time again, and it's the community values that they prioritise down. Among other things, many of the Right Spokespersons around the districts know about the Right's savings policy when it comes to the local economy, which has consequences for the users there. So here one really has to be a little bit more real in terms of discussion than what Right now was, assuming that one puts up a state-subsidized regime against postage. That's what you're adding. Then one must also have money for it, and such won't have the right money for when it snaps, when the most important matters are to be dealt with first. The most important issues are, of course, largely consistent taxation for those who already have enough, and not helping to get viable districts and to use Norway. That's what they said. Our starting point is easy to use ownership for something. Ownership is something more than spending money, as right here and others think the most. Ownership is saying that's what we want with our ownership. When Right says control of the Post, and now they are going to deregulate and liberalize – or whatever it might be called – all over the Fjälla, it is clear that the Post does. But now there are some new signals, for this government is busy using Norway. This government should simply ensure that it carries people in this country – throughout the country. That is our starting point when we maintain the 350-year-old tradition of service throughout the country, also in the innermost settlements in Ryfylke, where I am well-known. I know that the postmanship there would quickly end up in the small towns and to the small farms around if it was the way the market would control this, as it was going to be with a Right regime. Then prices would go up, and along with some other centralization tendencies, this would lead to an increase in regional delocalisation. It is not this government's policy. But it is a normal market economy policy, and that is what we are talking about here – the ideological starting point for the two government projects, which we are actually discussing now. The red-green government has a project that says we're going to use Norway, we're going to make sure that people get service even if they live in a place with few people. The right hand side, the Left and the Christian People's Party, which comes up with many good proposals in the opposition, have a policy that suggests that there is a market that will get more to say. The money is counting more. It's their setup. Let it be decided, they're set up. For us, the vote, the people's power, having good services to people most and not just to business, of which the Progress Party is engrossed, is an important starting point for our basic political vision. Then it is important for this government to ensure that the Post continues to do what the Post has done for Norway. Of course, one should have a modernisation of the Post, as has happened and will happen. But one should have customer focus, and customer focus is not just customer focus where there's a lot of people. Customer focus is simply a focus across the whole country. The right-hand side and the Progress Party tried is in a way a fast-paced EU policy of adaptation, a rapid transition towards a more determined market. That's what this government has stopped. I'm very happy about that. I am pleased that this government is just doing what they can to ensure that the Post with its important service provision helps to maintain jobs, so that people can live throughout the country and use the whole country. I'm glad we let go of the blue adventure policy we've had for four years now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e289	Interestingly, the representative Langeland and SV, together with the other government parties, cling to the EU's possible decision in this matter too when they hesitate a bit. It is more interesting to look at Finland and Sweden, which are our nearest neighbouring country, which has liberalised postal services in this area too early in the 1990s. We have not recorded that there is a popular demand or a strong political demand in the two neighbouring countries for this to be converted, and that they have a terriblely bad postal service. So the representative Langeland is talking about both ideology and ownership governed by ideology. Is it so now that the good development that the Post has had, and that, among other things, Have they been on their way into Sweden, where there is an opportunity to compete also if mail transport for letters below 50 grams is to be stopped? Is it the case that this government's solidarity goes against the government staff in Norway and that the Post is to focus on tasks in Norway to protect its employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e296	Clearly, the main focus of the Post is to be in Norway. They have to stop the users in Norway and, above all, they have to do it. The good experience gained by the Progress Party in highlighting Finland and Sweden, I could imagine that the representative will elaborate a little more, preferably in a later article. For my experience, our rural policy in Sweden is a disaster. There's a lot of things that make it, including that it's going to be more expensive to live in the districts. In relation to ownership, which the representative also asks for, it is clear that this government should have a more active ownership. In fact, someone has started to operate with jewelry boxes. My box is a toolbox, and we're going to use that toolbox actively to make sure that Norway's whole business is used, and that consumers and businesses throughout Norway get the same price to pay for their mail. We don't want progress party politics, which makes it expensive to live in the districts and cheap to live in the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e305	I got a moment of association with a tax debate, and that we were in it. But, of course, the representative of Langeland noticed that during the four-year period that we have left behind, households had their purchasing power strengthened by NOK 70,000, the municipalities went so far in 2005, and the industry is doing very well for the time being. But let me stick to the Post. So they themselves want to remove the exclusive right and have a freer position. Norway has shown an offensive willingness to adapt to future challenges. It's against the law. Let me turn the mirror a little bit for Langeland: What is most important for SV – to ensure obsolete organisation through state monopoly arrangements or to facilitate more customer-oriented business, as the company itself wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e312	This government wants a more active ownership. It's not the way Halleraker and the former government wanted a single one to make the most of it with the one on the drive. From the SV and the Government's side, we have a customer focus, but not just the focus that leads to increased incomes, but actually the focus that leads to Norway's being used, that there are people living in the districts, that it responds to running with commercial activity in the districts. That's our starting point for this. The fact that the representative then uses half his line not to talk about taxes, but still talks about taxes shows that in practical policy the most important thing is tax-free. Because then you think it's going to be a bigger activity. Our policy is to strengthen the local economy and ensure that the right-wing speakers are satisfied, so that they can provide a well-being offer, while at the same time ensuring that the post is distributed throughout the country and not just where one thinks the most possible money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e319	I think the representative Langeland had a fine approach angle on his post, because the representative said, ‘The post must be posted’. That is probably the goal of the socialists in this case, when you reverse a development in the Post that has been positive for both the districts, for business and for private customers. My question to Langeland is about making money. Now, as the representative of Greece pointed out in a reply, the Post is making money in a number of other areas. The revenue sources of the Item have now been significantly improved and strengthened in relation to recent developments. Is it the case that this government and the socialists in this room want to reverse positive developments, and also now want to tighten up the Post Office's ability to operate commercially and obtain income from other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e329	The width of this debate is returned when we are going to discuss the ownership message. But there's no doubt that from my point of view I want an active state that exercises active ownership that goes beyond just thinking about money. Of course, I am pleased that the Post, in spite of the strained one-person portfolio, as the Progress Party will certainly produce it that, in fact, makes money and a lot of money. So it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and that's what we're trying to have. We'll both make sure that people get their mail even where there are little people, and we'll make sure that the price is equal across the country. It's hard to combine for a progress party, I'm fully aware of that, because there's the money book that's going to decide everything. For this government, it's the way we want people to live in the whole country, and it's going to cost just as little to live in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e339	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e342	When a listener listens to today's debate about the Post's future, a few impressions may be that the Post is facing a dark future, where all progress and all good development have stopped, or one can choose to believe in those who say today is a day of happiness, for today the Post is saved. The Christian People's Party does not believe that today's decision is an accident for the country, but for the Post Norway AS, it is a step backwards for the possibilities to prepare for the strong competition that is coming. Liberalisation or not liberalisation, however, is essential if we are to maintain good postal services throughout the country, and that is a broad consensus in this Chamber. It promises well for the future, regardless of changing governments and majority formations: the postal service must be ensured throughout the country. It is a broad political desire and a broad political will to ensure exactly what is stated in the purpose paragraph of today’s postal law, which states that the overall objective in the postal field is ‘to ensure a cross-border provision of postal services at a reasonable price and at good quality’. Postal services have been and should continue to be an important element in the infrastructure in order to maintain residence and business throughout the country. Cross-border postal services must be continued at the current level and the provision of services in the districts should not be impaired. In the view of the Christian People's Party, measures to secure the Post's users against unfair price differences shall be taken when necessary. The unit portfolio on individual shipments is to be continued, because it should still be easy and easy to send ordinary letters, and because the equal price of these shipments is fair and fair. Government purchases of socially imposed, business-unprofitable postal services are an instrument that will continue to contribute, if necessary, to ensuring that the objective of a satisfactory postal service throughout the country is met. Thus, the Christian People's Party agrees with the government's defined objectives, but the Christian People's Party does not agree that the decision of the Stortinge in connection with the treatment of St. prp. No 34 for 2004-2005 shall be deleted. The Christian People’s Party does not agree that the exclusive right of Post Norway AS is essential to continue to ensure fair and good postal services throughout the country. The Christian People's Party will protest against the reality that the majority is trying to create. Last year the size of the store did not adopt a change in the law that would lead to a worse postal offer. The majority of the Committee stressed that today’s good quality of postal services should be maintained throughout the country, even after the winding-up of the exclusive right. The main objective of the majority was that the provision of services in the districts should not be impaired by the termination of the exclusive right of the Post: ‘The majority indicate that there is a clear and unambiguous intention to maintain today’s high level of service provision in the districts. Through the use of instruments such as unit portfolios on individual consignments, state purchases of unprofitable services and a new regulatory framework adapted to the specific Norwegian circumstances such as the scattered pattern of residence, the majority would like to continue a good postal service throughout the country, even after the termination of the exclusive rights of Post Norway AS on the market.’» Although there is disagreement as to whether or not the last remainder of the Post Norway monopoly should be abolished, I would point out that a total accumulation actually agrees on the main objectives of the Norwegian postal sector. We hope this consensus is maintained. All agree on postal transport six days a week, state purchases of business-unprofitable services if necessary, unit portfolios, special conditions in the districts and consideration of topography. As long as there's a broad consensus on this on Stortinget, it stays like this. It is against this background that the Christian People's Party chooses to express its support for the Government's work aimed at EU bodies, in order to ensure that any reduction in popular governance later does not at the expense of universal service requirements. It is not desirable for Norway to be prevented in the future from imposing high standards on universal service, to continue the unit portfolio and to ensure continued postal distribution six days a week. There is broad agreement in this Chamber that these are important objectives and instruments to be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e366	The Christian People's Party is, I have the impression, more and more agreeable to what this government stands for – I have also registered it in other matters – but I still want to hold on to the errors that one has done before, to say it a little unexplained. But with the experience of the Christian People's Party from the government – where one has stressed that it is important, for example. Keeping a good service out in the municipalities, making sure that there will be new baths, etc., but in practical policies cut down on the things that an underscorer is important – is not the representative afraid that by simply formulating words and not in practice adopting a direction for ownership of the Post in relation to one-off sports, just future governments, for example, will. with the Progress Party at the head, cut off the subsidisation to ensure six days' payback?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e371	We have been in two governments and have contributed to a success story for the Post – which I also perceive that today's government parties fully agree with. It has had a remarkable development in Norway, and it has been a trend towards greater liberalisation. For the Christian People's Party, it is undeniable that the ownership of the Post is established. That's not what there's questions about here. The question is whether the Post should be allowed to become fully liberalised, a wish that the Post itself has, and that we in the Christian People's Party believe will help to strengthen the Post's position in the future when they are going into a tough competition with a liberalized postal market across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e376	It is easy to understand that a party like the Right, who has programmed the belief that the invisible hand's good, helpful actions in the market will at all times save us all, believes what they mean. But the Christian People's Party, as I see it, doesn't have this ideology, and you also claim that you're for a good offer across the country, it's going to be post-transmission six days a week. We see that Posten Sweden is now considering going down to four days. I want to challenge the representative Sahl to say where he's going to cut to get the 310 million. kr which is required to maintain six days of carriage and one-stop sport throughout the country. Is it from the nursing home he's going to take it, or is it from the kindergartens? Isn't it better that we let the market that actually has money be involved and subsidize this part of the Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e383	If it becomes necessary to spend money on subsidising the market, the Christian People's Party has shown in previous cases that we are willing to participate. But we just think that the development that the Post is now in, and the tough market that the Post is going to meet with a liberalised Europe, requires that the Post is to a greater extent getting free hands to participate and prepare for this competition, and that it will be overall positive for the total postal market in Norway. I can reproduce: The post Norway is already out there today and competes in Europe through CityMail, which we see as positive. This item collects revenue in other areas, which can also be used to strengthen the postal market in Norway. It's this competition they're preparing for and want to go into, to meet what's coming in two years, and it supports the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e390	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e393	The center part thinks it's important that the whole country is sure to be equivalent mail services at equal price. The postal services are an important part of the overall infrastructure of society, and we think that a good and reasonable postal service must be maintained throughout the country. We don't want to accept developments that go in the direction of major geographical differences between the services offered and their cost. Postal distribution six days a week for all households and the forwarding of the unit portfolio are important parts of the postal service that we do not think should be weakened. The previous government worked to liberalise the Norwegian postal market and to leave important public infrastructure services to private operators, although there were clear warnings that such developments could lead to poorer postal services in the districts. I'm glad that we've got a new political plurality that's noticed that the postal services are going to be an important piece in the infrastructure to sustain settlement and business throughout the country, and that the Government is now proposing to abolish the decision to abolish the right of one to the Post. As a result of its EU postal directive, a timetable for a gradual reduction in the area of justice was established in 2003. Under the Postal Directive, the EU postal market should be fully liberalised from 2009. However, it is now uncertain whether the Member States of the European Union will agree on further liberalisation and when this will happen. A full liquidation of the one-off court in Norway from 2007 would mean that Norway will liberalise faster than the EU. I see no reason Norway should do that. In the proposal, the Ministry of Transport states that liberalisation could lead to an increase in price differences in postal services and that one-off rights are a good means of promoting geographical price equalisation. Price equalisation is easier to implement in a single-law market, because profitable areas are otherwise exposed to competition from new operators without universality requirements and geographical unity. For 2006, it is assumed that the one-rights surplus of the Post Office will be large enough to cover the costs of the service. The central party agrees with the view that financing the provision of services through one-off rights and the requirements of one-off sports is a more solidarity scheme than increasing the government budget to offset regional prices. Experience from Sweden, which has opened its postal sector to competition, shows that there are particularly large postal companies that have received cheaper services. Samstun-des has asked Posten Sweden to be exempted from the post-transmission requirement five days a week. The EU has minimum terms of five days a week for post-transmission, while in Norway we have a requirement for post-transmission six days a week. It is likely because of the competitive situation that Posten Sweden is asking for a relaxation of the post-transmission requirement. It is worth noting that consumers and districts seem to be losing weight in connection with liberalisation in Sweden. Norway is actively working to influence the EU’s work so that it does not adopt a proposal for further liberalisation that would make it difficult for Norway to maintain a good and reasonable postal service throughout the country. It is positive that the opposition is also behind the Government's objectives for the postal sector. I note at the same time that the opposition party will continue to liberalise and think they have other means of maintaining one-stop portfolios, six days of mail distribution, etc. This will in case require major promises from the State budget, or it could lead to a reduction in services in the MPCs. I have also noticed that it seems that the previous government parties have some different assessments of how they will resolve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e413	The representative of Sollied Superior is very concerned about maintaining the settlement and connects it directly to the postal services. Now it's not like there's any new trend that people move out of the districts. They have done so throughout the past 25 to 30 years, and perhaps more when the Senter Party has ruled the country. My question concerns what is in the setting, among other things. From the Central Party, where it is said that what the EU is doing is expected to be awaited. There has also been a press release from the Ministry of Transport that we do not want further liberalisation before the EU does. So my simple question is: what will the scenario be, and what will the Central Party do in 2009 when the EU has to demand that Norway also open up full competition in the postal services?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e420	First, I think there's a lot of distance between the Progress Party and the Center Party when it's related to the view of what kind of main task Post Norway AS has. For the Centre Party, it is very important to base strong socio-economic issues and not just look at business considerations. As I said in my post, the Government will work actively in relation to the EU. What happens in time is not a task for me to decide on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e427	I noticed that the representative did not answer the question from Per Sandberg. The centre party will wait for the EU. That's what I think is alarming in itself. But what will they do in 2009 if it is now full liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e432	As I replied to the representative Sandberg, I said in my speech that this government will work towards the EU to prevent us from getting full liberalisation. As I also did well for, and as it says in the setting, we don't know per. today if there is agreement in the EU on full liberalisation. So when it comes to the uncertainty that lies there from several countries about full liberalisation, we have to wait and look forward in time. But that the central party will support what the representative Tenden is asking questions about: we are not positive about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e438	I would like to try one more time, because I think the answer I got on my first line was very perceptive. I suppose the Center Party has ambitions to sit in government out this period. If not, there's a signal about something else. Because if it is the case that the representative Sollied Överaas does not have any thoughts about what might be the situation of the Post in 2009, it is a total discharge. I really think that the representative should signal to the Post, clearly and clearly, what this government, or the socialists, will have to do if the EU requires Norway to have full competition and full liberalisation in the postal services. Something else is very eye-catching.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e445	First of all, I would like to say that we cannot decide on a claim that the representative Sandberg claims it is from the EU, when we know that there is a discussion in the EU countries. It is unsavory in EU countries. After all, we need to have a case about this before we can decide on it. So I also said in my post – and I hope that the representative from the Progress Party noticed – that this government is working actively in view of the fact that there should not be full liberalisation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e455	In this issue of the Post, we have seen the importance of symbolism policy – a symbol policy that inhibits the implementation of good and profitable solutions for all, including the population in the districts. This matter becomes to me a romanticization of state-owned monopolies, a romanticization that we in the Left cannot participate in. That is why we will be voting against this proposal by the red-green government here today to maintain the exclusive right of the Post Norway AS. The main argument of the red-greens is that liberalisation of the mail would have gone beyond the districts. I want to stress that this is a scare image. The Bondevik II government wanted to liberalise the market, but was at the same time fully aware that unit portfolios and mail distribution would last six days a week. The Bondevik II government also wanted the legislation to be adapted to specific Norwegian circumstances. The red-green decisions contrast with good experience in the liberalisation of the Posten monopoly in other areas. We have received a number of new services, such as: Post in Store. This has become a success all over the country. The quality of delivery of priority letters has also increased. Customers are satisfied, delivery rates are among the best in the world, and complaint management is well known among the public. I remember the Central Party's struggle to lay down a post office. All post offices were to be preserved! Imagine if we had still been sitting in all the post offices now – in our electronic age. We have to take reality and be forward-looking. Something else is going to be terribly expensive. It is also strange that the Government maintains the exclusive right of the Post, despite the fact that the Post itself is opposed to this. It is a fact that large parts of the Norwegian postal market are already open to competition. Letters are increasingly challenged by e-mail, the Internet and other electronic communications. The entry Norge AS could also have reaped considerable benefits from obtaining adaptations and experience prior to a development which in any case will occur as a result of the EEA Agreement. The left does not share the red-green belief that post-monopolises will exist in Europe and that the EU will reverse its policy on deregulation in this area. Fair competition is positive for everyone. It is particularly important that activities subject to monopoly and competition should not be carried out side by side in the same company or in the same market. The Government Parties claim that competition from foreign postal companies in protected domestic markets would pose a threat to Posten Norway in a liberalised Norwegian market. It is true that protected enterprises are a threat to competitive activities. The exclusive right of Post Norway in one market segment is a competitive advantage for Posten in other markets exposed to competition in this country. This goes beyond the competitors of Posten Norway. The case of monopolies has previously given lower prices to users, a variety of new services and many new small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, on behalf of the users, on behalf of the Post Norway and on behalf of the Post's competitors, I and the Left strongly regret the decision of the Government Party to maintain the Post's letter monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e481	The left has always been a supporter of the liberalisation of the postal market. The left also believes that the Post Office should reap great benefits from being ahead of EU developments. I ask whether the representative from the Left can point to the benefits of the Post Norway if foreign players with high capital strength, who are likely to operate with a base in a protected domestic market, are established in Norway to compete with the Post Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e488	I thank you for that question. The best way to meet it is that the Post strengthens itself. It does it the best – and they say it themselves – by free competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e495	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e498	Since the Post Office was created in 1647, one-off rights have been a central tool for achieving the basic post-political goal of fair and good postal services throughout the country. The government believes that the exclusive right to the Post will still be fundamental to ensuring reasonable and good postal services throughout the country. For this reason, the Government has presented the proposal under discussion here today to maintain the right of unanimity for regular addressed correspondence below 50 grams even after 1 January 2007. Over the years, the post has been an important part of the infrastructure that has made it possible to maintain a scattered bus and business throughout the country. The government attaches great importance to the important societal task the Post has had. We believe that this task should also be emphasised in the future. It is from the Right and the Progress Party's representatives in the vote that the Government proposal is a step back in time. I'm not in agreement. As you know, there's no shame in turning around. In my opinion, it is good and responsible postal policy to put a stop to full liberalisation of the postal market when this is clearly a blind-track. I am pleased that the entire Committee supports the Government's work directed towards the EU in relation to this matter. The EU is in the process of a major revision of postal legislation with a view to further liberalisation of the postal market from 2009. An EU proposal is expected to be adopted before the end of the next year. I fear that a proposal from the EU could lead to a reduction in the scope and quality of the services imposed on society. However, I believe that Norway, in alliance with other countries that are concerned with ensuring the provision of services, can ensure the requirements for geographical unit portfolios and six days of weekly distribution in the future. The Court of First Instance makes it possible to retain the geographical unit portfolio requirement for shipments within the single right area. Geographical oversampling of prices is easier to implement in a single-law market because profitable areas would otherwise be exposed to competition from new entrants without having to hold equal prices. As pointed out in the staging proposition to maintain a single right, according to the Government’s opinion, the single right is a good tool to ensure the funding of the most unhealthy postal services in the districts. Together with any direct government transfers, the excess of the right to finance so-called "wound postal services" is involved. Funding for the provision of services in the form of one-off and one-off sports is also more solid than increasing the level of pay for the provision of services in the state budget. Lonely areas and services thus contribute to ensuring good and reasonable services in the most affluent areas, as we, for example, have in aviation. The Committee's members from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have shown positive experience from other countries that have exercised the right of unanimity. I assume that the members in the first row are thinking about Sweden, which is one of the very few countries that have opened up to full competition in the postal market. Most countries in the world see as if we still have a single right as a central tool to ensure a good service provision. Experience from Sweden suggests that customers with large postal volumes in the most popular areas of Sweden tend to liberalise. Local operators in the districts have not been particularly exposed to competition with large operators. Sweden is required to distribute the item five days a week towards six days in Norway. Despite the fact that the requirement is already lower in Sweden than in Norway, Posten Sweden has stated that they want the requirements to be relaxed. The competitive situation on the Swedish market is likely to be such that the Post Sweden wants to deliver mail less than five days a week. Norway has more and more challenges than Sweden has to deal with, among other things. Disadvantages in the distance of business and the spread of busnets. This makes it likely that only a small part of the country will be attractive to other operators. This is something the districts will lose out on. Payroll in the Post Office is better today than ever. At the same time, the quality of the services imposed on society is very good. Post in Storek has been a great success. This positive development has taken place independently of one another. The government doesn't want to risk an additional postponing of competition leading to a halt to positive developments. The abolition of the single right from 1 January 2007 would have been faster than the EU’s timetable. I would also like to clarify here today that it is uncertain whether the postal market in the EU is being fully liberalised. Several countries are sceptical about further liberalisation. Among other things, Estonia, which has liberalised the postal market in the past, has announced that it is considering reintroducing a single right. The Netherlands has recently postponed further liberalisation, which was planned from 2007. Even if increased competition can lead to better postal services for some, especially large-volume enterprises, I think that the care of ordinary consumers and the districts must be the most important in this matter. This government regards postal services as an important part of the infrastructure for maintaining bus and business throughout the country. Today’s decision will help to ensure a nation-wide provision for the provision of universal postal services at reasonable prices and of good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e533	The Council of State is in its intervention, in the same way as the representative Sollied Överaas and the representative Wickholm earlier today, are in the process of protecting their own domestic market. The Council of State also writes in a press release of 5 May this year that she does not want ‘a situation in which the Post gets competition in its own home market for ordinary mail, while not being able to enter the home market of its competitors’. Now the situation is that the Post Norway is actually in and competing in Sweden. Then is my first question to the Council of State: do the decisions that are being made here today, and what is being said and settled by the Council of State and others of the Socialist parties, now mean that one wants to limit the Post and reverse the Post's ability to enter other markets and compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e539	The post competes in Sweden and has also started a work in Denmark, with the government's well-being. The entry competes in that part of the market which is also competitive in Norway and which is the largest part of the market. Postponing the remaining part will bring disadvantages to the Post in many hundreds of millions of classes. The exact number doesn't have one, but I've heard numbers that vary from 300 million. kr and upward to the double, and perhaps even more, for what one right is valued to. As I said, the Posten competes in that part of the market in Sweden that is also competitive in Norway, where the Posten also meets competition from operators from other countries, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e546	I note that the new government in several areas – we recently had another case as well – refers to the EU and in a way clusters a hope that the EU will change its policy to satisfy Norway and the red-green government. It is likely that the postal directive adopted by the EU remains in place. It is still likely that there is a time set – 2009 – to open the postal market. The Councils of State set an example for Estonia and the Netherlands. Can the Council of State provide the Stortinget with an answer — possibly also in writing — in what ways Norway is actively working towards the EU? Who are we working against? What kind of expectations does the Council of State have for the work to take place? And what will the Government do if the EU implements the Postal Directive? Will it then veto?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e553	Unlike the previous government, this government has an offensive work against the EU to get into matters early and influence where we want decisions other than those put up. In this case, we have great alliances. There are many countries that have raised strong opposition to full liberalisation of postal services, precisely because one wants to secure mail to all parts of the country. I have met with the Commissioner responsible for the postal services in the EU this year, and met with great understanding of the Norwegian view. I have met my Irish colleague and my English colleague. I still have meetings with my Nordic colleagues, where I also address this issue and other issues that are vital to Norwegian development. So I think in this case, we have an active work going in towards the Commission and going in towards other European countries to claim the Norwegian view. I have also invited Commissioner Barrot to Norway. I'm going to take him along the coast, he's going to show the little coastal communities, and he's going to tell me that here we actually have post-implantation five days a week, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e560	The Council of State boasts of developments in the Post Norway over time. So does the Christian People's Party. But this development has actually been consistently critical of the Centre Party. In this way the minister follows up a well-known line. The company still wants to be allowed to develop and strengthen its position pending the competition. The minister will stop this. Today we have a postal distribution that reaches the whole country six days a week. We have had a strong improvement in the follow-up targets. What is the Minister's knowledge that the company Posten Norge AS does not know about, which means that one will now stop a development that is as positive as the one we have had?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e567	There is no doubt that there is reason to praise the Post Office for dealing with a tough conversion. Not least, they have added a great job to the Post, along with the lead, to get this done. There are different roles to sit and run a company and to sit and rule a country. The government is busy in both the short and long term to ensure that all communities in this country have good postal services. Taking away the one-right thing we know will lead to great costs for the Post Office. Of course, we can compensate for that cost by purchasing services, which we also do in other areas. We believe that as far as possible, it is better for one to finance the so-called "wound services" by giving the Post the opportunity to use funds from the profitable services in this area. Of course, we cannot subsidize other areas with funds within a monopolistic area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e574	I have a question for the Council of State: what experience does the Council of State have with the competition that is post over 50 grams?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e579	There's probably some varied experiences around the country with that competition. Last year's election campaign, the Right Party in Vik came with strong criticism of the Post because they didn't get to deliver their election material in Vik, but had to spend a whole day traveling to Sogndal to get it delivered in. That's one example. I have received messages from companies in Utkant-Noreg that feel that there has been a long way to surrender and various types of services. I took that up with the post office. The post is obs on it and wants to do something about it. It's a small sign of exactly what we're concerned with preventing, that the business community and the community in the districts are going to get worse services than what one has in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e586	I want to follow up on the question from the representative Per Sandberg. The Council of State says that the Post Norway only competes in the same postal areas in Sweden as it does in Norway. Does this mean that the Post Norway does not compete in Sweden in areas on which the Post has exclusive rights in Norway today? If you don't, I wonder: What about the post offices in District Sweden, and the employees of the Swedish Post Office? Where is the solidarity of the Council of State for these? Does it stop at the Swedish border, or does it mean that the Post should withdraw from the activity you have in Sweden, where there is full competition? It is said that there is no desire to allow full liberalisation in Norway, precisely because the Post is not available on the domestic market of the other countries. But actually in Sweden and Denmark, you do it from the Post. At that time one should be open to open up competition also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e593	The main reason why this government has presented this case, to which we then have the support of the Stortinget today, is to ensure that ordinary people, consumers, and not least the districts, receive as good services as in central strokes. I'm not sure if I understood the question quite correctly, in order to be completely honest. I don't understand what this has to do with solidarity for them to add in Swedish post offices to do. But the fact, as I get them, is that a competitor in the areas that are also competitive in Norway, and so on, the Swedish post can compete in Norway on equivalent terms. It's possible that I misunderstood you, and then you might have to clarify the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e600	President, if I may be allowed to clarify...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e605	It's probably possible to clarify it a little bit later, we stick to the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e609	Okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e614	The cord shift is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e619	Let me use a few seconds of the three minutes of the case rapporteur, Mr Wickholm from the Workers' Party, just to establish that the Advance Party wants six days' worth – not five days, as I believe the Council of State has mispronounced – and one-porto. So when you say something else from the Labour Party, it's actually both wrong and against better knowledge. This case bears on the part of the socialist government parties the mark of a certain fundamentalist despair over a development that is not to be liked. At the same time, you can turn it around and say that the mechanism and the solution are actually going to be a pretty puzzled and puffed-up socialism. It's like you have a majority, you have tools if you want to use the tool. Then you could actually put the brakes on too fully and say that the Post will get its total monopoly back in Norway. Then the majority would have been used, and they would have used their power. You don't want to, probably because you realize that a lot of the transition that the Post has made, thanks to skilled employees and good management, is both important and right for customers – the users of Posten's services. And they are completely absent from this debate. It may well be right and important to remember that the Post itself has asked its users and its customers through its conversion how they experience the process. As far as I can see, it is mainly good feedback. It's a good conversion, which everyone has contributed to the company, and it's a good conversion, which customers also applaud. So the Post has a new owner with this socialist government. Clearly, there is an owner who does not applaud the results of the conversion and who, by stopping and reverse this last part of the liberalisation of the Post Office's business, actually expresses distrust both to employees and to management. It is also the case that there are slightly different calculations of what it means to have this last remaining monopoly area. Some people claim it's a billion, three times as much as the post office itself says. The point is at least that it is highly doubtful whether this monopoly gain is likely to benefit users by having the exclusive right to write under 50 grams. On the contrary, there is reason to believe that the Post, as it stands today, uses some of its monopoly profits to buy up both in Sweden and in other activities in Norway — competitive activities in Norway. If you have a customer perspective, you should definitely cancel the rest of the monopoly. But customer perspective and user perspective are foreign words for the socialist government based on the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e630	In the autumn of 2004, the Bondevik II Government proposed to terminate the exclusive right to the Post as of 1 January 2007. The proposal was adopted by Stortinget, but the Workers' Party, SV and the Zenterpartie voted against this and did not want to terminate the exclusive right to the Posten. So what's on the table today can't come as a big surprise. A full winding-up of the exclusive right from 1 January 2007 would involve a tightened rate of liberalisation vis-à-vis the EU. Postal services are important in the infrastructure for maintaining residence and business throughout the country. The overall objective in the postal field is to ensure a cross-border postal offering of equivalent services at the same price and with good quality. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are basically very negative to the deregulation of the postal market and believe that it would be unwise and unlucky for the Post Norway AS if the Norwegian postal market were to be opened up to competition from companies that can operate with a base in their own protected domestic market. That would be the case if the deregulation were carried out. We are also aware that there is uncertainty about whether full deregulation will be implemented at all. Why, then, should this be carried out in Norway? I'm just asking. We are also aware that in Sweden, which has implemented a full deregulation, the company CityMail has taken large market shares in the lucrative market for industrial mass mail. These are big broadcasts going on in a small geographical area, and this is very good business. There is also reason to believe that there will be little interest in taking over the postal distribution in the districts, where there is often a long way between customers, and then probably the state-owned company will be the losing party. That is why I look forward to the decision that will be taken here later today. Finally – and here I want to place the representative of Sortevik a visit: we are not opposed to changes and changes, and we have no distrust of employees and management.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e645	The debate is really not quite to the point of becoming wise. If I'm going to try to sum up and figure out what causes the socialists here to want to reverse a further development in the Post, it must be that they don't want to sustain development, even though they see that it is necessary and it will come. I would like to point out that it will be a service to bear in the Post, because they are then put in a situation where they cannot prepare, and they come in a special position – if I am allowed to say so – in relation to meeting increased competition. It would have been best for the Post if they could now prepare for full liberalisation and full competition within the EU in 2009. At that time, the Post Norway had come into the situation that the socialists here want, and that the representative Hallgeir Langeland was in, compared to the fact that it's not making money that's important, but it's providing services. But this has a certain context, because if the Post is not able to make money, the government that is currently sitting must also out with subsidies at some point. Regardless of the position of industry, they must make money to provide quality services. It is also explicitly clear to the Post Office. Therefore, they have had a positive development where they can actually show results, almost everyone is satisfied with the evolution that is, and the Post is making money and has other sources of income that are helping to strengthen the service provision to customers. What should have been the starting point for everyone in a debate like this, are the customers. I then suspect the socialists to have a different starting point. But I'm still left with a little question. I still ask whether it is Truls Wickholm and the councillor of Navarsete, alone, almost, who wants to reverse this. For there have been no signals from the customers, or signals from the Post, that they will stop this shipment. After all, there must be some politicians and some political parties who, for ideological reasons, want to stop the developments that are taking place. I have to be allowed to refer again to the representative Hallgeir Langeland who says that you are humbling the cream – the post should not be commercial. But they are. And then my question is: do you want to stop the positive developments that the Post has in relation to going into commercial areas to make money? For the representative, Hallgeir Langeland, the opposite is true. It shall not be the task of the Post – they shall not be commercial. They only have one problem, and that's going with the post office, says Hallgeir Langeland. Yes, and if they are going to be in the post, we must at least increase the subsidy to Item Norge AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e656	Today's decision is not a distrust of those added and led by the Post. On the contrary, the Government has great confidence in the Post. But as a limited liability company, the Post is governed by the Stock Law, and the Government is governed by the Soria Moria Declaration. There's a big difference. In addition, the Post is controlled by a signal from collapse and government. We will discuss the mail message later in the fall and will be able to discuss the Post in full width. The representative of Sortevik claimed that the Post uses part of the monopoly surplus to subsidise competition in other countries. The Posten concession specified that any surplus from a one-line area should be used to cover a deficit from the same services in a pregnant area. Other use of surplus from a single right area can only be made to finance the provision of services that are economically viable for the Post. It's important to go under this, because it seems like there's some confusion. So it's not allowed to finance competitive services with a surplus from a single right area. But one of them is capable of financing the most expensive services. That's precisely why the government is busy keeping these schemes, so that one in those parts of the country where there are no profitable services can keep them in a good way. Post and telecommunications supervision, which is the post-concession supervisory authority, oversees the compliance of the Post. I have not received any information indicating that the Post is breaking the strict prohibition against illegal cross-subsidy. To the representative Sandberg: The opposition party boasts of the Post today, and there is every reason to boast of the Post – they have been through a great transformation, and they have a positive development. Then there must be a paradox for the opposition party that this development has actually occurred while the Post is holding on to the individual review as a monopoly area, which one would like to remove. This has not prevented a positive development for Posten in recent years. I don't think that in any way will prevent the further positive development of the Post, but it will help us as rulers to ensure that the Post can take care of what we're concerned about, the social tasks, ensuring people in all parts of the country, both along the coast and in the countryside, an equivalent offer, equal price of the Services, post-remission six days a week. It's the social side that this government is busy with, and that maybe others aren't so busy with when you're most busy boosting competition. The starting point for this government is simply customers, but also individuals and businesses throughout the country. We want to have an active policy to ensure that everyone will benefit from the infrastructure that the Post is to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e669	It could be a point to underline to the opposition that today we are reversening a decision – we are not reversening reality. We continue the situation that Norway has today, where the Post has grown and evolved into a good business. So claiming that we're now reverseing evolution becomes a little bit special. Norway has a monopoly on a small but profitable part of today's market. However, the post also has requirements and obligations relating to itself that the competitors do not have. It is therefore quite wrong to claim what the representative Tenden does, namely that the abolition of monopoly by letter of less than 50 grams would give all equal conditions of competition. In Sweden, the Post Sweden has lost revenues and market shares. Because of this, they want to drop the requirement of five days a week, i.e. one day less than in Norway. I think the opposition, in a situation where they had been forced to prioritize between granting 300 million. NOK 300 million for the purchase of postal services by the State. kr to school, hospital or older, would not have chosen the postal services. The tapes would be common people – and especially people in the districts. The red-greens want a policy for the whole country, not just for the big cities. We have a real policy in which we ensure this. We have not yet received a response to where the opposition is going to pick up the 300 million. NOK it would cost to finance the government purchase. I therefore choose to interpret the beautiful words of six days of mail distribution and unit portfolio for the whole country as pure rhetoric on the part of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e682	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2625]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e698	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that it be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Hallgeir H. Langeland, who is presenting the matter on behalf of the President-in-Office, who is Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e709	New government means new policy. This room has been marked – not least in the areas of transport – through the increased permissions we already received in the State budget, and through the follow-up it received in the revised budget. These rights are great – and larger than the former government and partners were able to achieve. Today, we are going to clean up a lot of things, which also shows that this government is moving on when it comes to action in the field of transport. But let me add: we're not in the goal. The 2007 budget will be a milestone when it comes to how we can demonstrate our own policies in all areas of transport. And I look forward to that. I've been an opposition politician most of my life, but I've always been busy creating multiples for the policy I stand for. Therefore, in the previous period, SV helped to get multiple numbers – along with the previous government – for several things in different areas. What's a little strange about the situation today is that those who were in position at the time – and therefore had the opportunity to create multiple numbers and playrooms – today come up with the good suggestions that they themselves did not get when they actually had power. There is one way to pursue policies that I – and at least those who vote on us – find a little strange. The policy that one could have implemented when one was in position suggests that just after one came into opposition, one did not do anything about this while one was in government. The clearest example of this today is Finnfast-saka: The government actually cleans up a case that lasted several years with the previous government – it lay there and came nowhere. Finnfast-sack was stuck. The matter did not come to Stortinget, despite the fact that the innumerable times asked her to be treated. This government is acting. After four months we had been admitted to Finnfast, with a funding that we might have wanted to be different, but it was a good thing to get it in such a short time – and that the previous government actually didn't get it. As stated in the setting, and in the proposition presented by the Government, there is a set of possibilities for limiting the life of the Toll Station on Sokn. We have managed to limit it, but not as much as we would have hoped when it comes to using vacation release agents. But it is consistent with what the former government did with regard to how this is financed. We will come back to – as it says in the setting – a new fare system for ferries once we have received a report on this, which will be presented in 2006. The principle of free ferry routes – which the Right and Advance Party have suddenly found at present – is also presented after reading the Soria Moria Declaration. I myself have great faith that we will get some places up to go. I myself was at Smøla on 1 May and thought it would be a good place to start a trial project with free ferry. But we'll have to wait until we get the money before there might be a free ferry offer there – to be able to travel out and look at the great wind farms. So to a problem that we were made aware of in the form of letters to the Committee today by the Minister for Transport, and which it is necessary to stay a little while. Irene Johansen, from the Workers' Party and others, has been strongly encouraged not to reduce the progress of the E18 project in Østfold. We've now been asked to signal what we think is about taking a lot out just to avoid delays, and thus probably also avoid larger bills. I just want to say that from the point of view of the government parties, we have been very sensible and tidy in this matter before, not least on the basis of the pressure exerted by the Østfold bench, and not least by the Workers' Party's representative on the Transport and Communications Committee, with the view that an actual solution can be made cheaper by doing so. So the government party is set to follow up that letter and give a clear signal to the Minister of Transport that it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e730	This landfill proposal deals with a number of issues under programme category 21.30 Road purposes. I refer you to our comments on the matter and to the rapporteur's presentation and will comment only on one of the issues, which is phase 1 of the Eastfold package. The Storting had during the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 the following note: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is aware that, in its opinion consultation decision on the National Transport Plan and Action Programme in spring 2005, Østfoldpak Phase 1 was asked to be revised in 2006. The majority support such an audit and ask the Government to follow this up. It is desirable in this context that the most continuous deployment of E18 can be envisaged.» I am pleased that this work has been started. However, it has been found that the estimated cost of the Krosby-Knapstad project is significantly higher than previously calculated. This has meant that work on the revision of the Eastfold Package will take longer than expected, and that the matter cannot be promoted for the Spring Storing. However, the Ministry says that they will come back to the matter in the 2007 state budget and that it is an objective to support the development of E18 in Eastfold. The extension of the four-field motorway on E6 and E18 and the further expansion of the double-track Moss and south-west railways are the main elements of the Eastfold package phase 1, cf. St. pp. No 68 for 2001-2002. All projects are main trajectories from Norway to Sweden and further downwards in Europe. The status of the projects is: E6 to the four-field motorway is expected to be completed during 2008.E18 to the four-field motorway was opened in October 2005 on the route Sekelsten–Krosby, while the section Momarken–Seckelsten is expected to open in autumn 2007. In the Action Programme for National Transport Plan 2006-2015, the remaining sections of the E18 are planned to be completed in 2015. These sections were requested to be covered. The railway development in Eastfold, by railway tunnel through Moss, has been adopted in the current national transport plan and prioritised in front of the Haug-Onsøj Parselle, cf. also the decision of the Stortinge in connection with the examination of St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006. It is clearly unfortunate for the progress of these road and rail projects in Eastfold that a revision of the Eastfold package takes longer than estimated and is not completed in spring. However, when this is the case, it is important that the Ministry keeps a high level of pressure on the matter. I am therefore very pleased that the department says they will come back to the matter in the state budget for 2007, and that they are working to bring this matter forward in view of a redundancy of E18. I am also pleased that the Council of State has informed the Storting Transport and Communications Committee today that she will address during the discussion of this matter the need for mass extraction on the route Krosby–Knapstad, for use on the route under construction today. This information came too late to be included in this proposition, and it's clearly unfortunate. However, it must not stop the further expansion of the E18 in Eastfold. It is therefore satisfactory that the matter is being informed here today and that it will be clarified in the context of the 2007 budget, as the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e764	It was said by the representative of Langeland that we have a new government and that we have a new policy. I don't think I'm going to take it up for discussion here today. That occasion we've had for eight months, and we'll probably be able to continue that debate even in the rest of this period if the government had to sit out. I have recorded that the representative Langeland and several of the government constellations signal that it is the 2007 budget that is in place now, and that there is really going to be a big boost in the transport sector. We welcome that in the Advancement Party. In fact, I think there may be something in it too, because in the municipal proposition, which is to be treated in this house, I record that the government is adding up to zero growth for the municipal sector in 2007. This means, of course, that the Government has free resources to use on the road and other infrastructure. I hope that's the strategy of this government, and that the Council of State we have here today will finally get an impact on its strong desire for increased efforts on infrastructure. We therefore welcome the 2007 budget. But to what lies here today: if it is the government has shown action, the Progress Party would have wanted a greater amount of things that could really be tackled by the acute problems we have in the infrastructure in Norway. Nevertheless, there are a few of these cases that actually show how wrong it can be when you have the kind of planning and design in our corridors in Norway. Therefore, it is important from my point of view and from the Progress Party once again to state that it is important now to focus on getting full funding of the corridors and of entire projects, instead of taking projects piece by piece and piece by piece. Now we all have to learn that this is a bit of a project, or kilometers for kilometers – if I get to say it like this – goes wrong. And that is, not least, Phase 1 of the Eastfold Package, a clear answer to that. Let me also briefly comment on it – if I am allowed to say so – sweet e-mail we received from the Council of State today. Of course it was late. But we are very pleased that the Council of State informs us about this, because this is entirely in line with the policy of the Progress Party. Once we've clarified that we want 100 pst. funding for this in one package means that it should be provided in all possible ways, so of course the State Council has the support of the Progress Party. My point is that we need to think more comprehensively about these types of plans and projects in order to avoid such losses in the future. This also applies to rv. 150 wolf split–Sinsen, which is in the same category, where an estimate is given and has not planned well enough. However, when it is claimed from the government parties to support Phase 1 Easternfold, it is wrong. There will be a delay here, and we deeply regret that. That's also why we went against a revision. We would launch it immediately to get it done. In the case of Finnfast, most things are said. But I still don't think the last word has been said. I think we can get more rounds compared to that. And I just want to make it very clear that it's still petty -- literally petty -- by the state not to grant the last 40 million. kr which was necessary for the removal of this boom in line with agreements on the table. But I'm recording that the government is now laying new principles on board. This also applies to rv. 55 in Sogn and Fjordane. Here the Government is testing itself again on a new principle, where toll financing is now to be introduced for racial protection. Clearly, the Progress Party is strongly opposed to it! We believe that the state – and certainly the Central Party Council – should be conscious of its responsibility in relation to racial security and, of course, directly financed by the state budget to remove the dangerous conditions that exist there. As far as tariff systems are concerned, I would just like to inform the representative of Langeland that the Progress Party has programmed free national roads. There's nothing new on our side. We did that in 2005. But in the case of a new tariff system, I think this is a little weird. I hope the council will explain a little bit about this, because you want Proven neutrality, but you want free ferries and fairer ferries. This is not related. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e785	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e788	First, a little feedback to the representative of Langeland. He is very concerned about the Right Policy of the Day and spends a lot of time on it in his articles. It might be interesting to ask the representative about how it feels to sit in the government, in the position, with all his unrealistic proposals from the opposition time far down the drawer. The right, on the other hand, pursues a responsible policy both in the opposition and in the position. But time does not stand still, and we realize that there is still room for innovation and new solutions. That's why, of course, we're also going to put it in opposition. Several have been disappointed by the Committee's view that phase 1 of the Easternfold package is not now being presented, as requested in the budget position from this autumn. I'm not going to spend that much time on it, because I think we agree on that. But I think it is necessary that the department looks closely at the matter, so that there will be no unfortunate consequences in relation to the rate of expansion in this case. Today there is the parcel Krosby–Knapstad we are looking at, but the parcel is almost Akershus even further ahead in time. There's actually the largest traffic, all the way up to 16 000 ADT. And we've seen on other motorway sections in the country that it provides a strong improvement with regard to accidents, especially serious accidents. Otherwise, I have to say that I think maybe such a project as this, as we were described when the committee was on its way to Eastfold, would have stood to be realized as an OPS project, where we were given the opportunity to take all the synergies into account in the project. So a little bit about Finnøy. An overall committee was concerned about the Rennfast/Finnøy problem and the extension of the collection period at the toll station on Sokn. We all felt that we were in the border country, and that we – both the majority and the minority – therefore suggested solutions to remedy this extra burden. The Ministry has not accepted any of the proposals. So there's no contribution from the state to this solution. The fact that it is now proposed that the lower interest rate will benefit Rennfast is not a contribution in this respect. It was supposed to be just missing that it didn't happen! So to the proposals that have been rejected. The loan to Rennfast at 16.7 million. NOK, which we asked to be transferred, has not even been evaluated in the document. That should be reasonable, in the situation you're in. So the question is, why isn't this commented at all? With regard to the scheme of savings of ferry subsidies, the majority wished to make a change that would strengthen the economy of the project. In my opinion, the Ministry's response has clear shortcomings. The argument that paying a one-off amount will weaken other ferry connections is purely accounting. The State may consider it a loan and calculate a discount rate for the entire period that would provide better economy in the project and thus reduce the Sokn period. As it is now, it is really the toll company that has to finance this with several higher interest rates, which gives longer Sokn period. The Ministry also readily overlooks the fact that increased traffic in continuing ferry operations would require the renewal of materials and increase the need for State subsidies. We have shown in our remarks that Hordaland County has a similar arrangement for its holiday relief project, which has worked well. This is where the state can learn. Finally, I would like to say a few words about AutoPASS. The fact that the government is now stopping the development for a long time is, in my opinion, a step backwards. I hope that the Council of State will reconsider this. Here, Norway is at the forefront of international action. Many people look to us for what we have done, and I sincerely hope that this development will not stop. I bring up the suggestions that we share with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e810	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e818	I would like to take the opportunity to say a little bit about some of the issues in the proposition and a little bit about the general priorities and attitudes of the Christian People's Party in the field of transport policy, as this is an aggregate proposition closely linked to the revised budget. Prosperity is an important key to the Christian People's Party. Good and appropriate transport solutions are essential for housing and business. The road network is a vital resource for regional and local development and is important both in districts and in central areas, especially where road is the only means of transport. Too many people are killed or seriously injured in traffic every day. In line with this, the Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government does not come to the Stortinget with a revision of Easternfold-packed phase 1, as requested by Eastfold County. We assume that this does not create any further delays, and we expect a redundancy of the E18 in Eastfold. The Christian People's Party supports, as stated by the previous speaker, the information that came into the Council's E18 e-mail to the Committee today, and sees it as positive. Lack of racial protection can also increase the risk of accidents and create insecurity. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed in our alternative revised budget a further increase in the racial security line, in addition to the increase we proposed in the 2006 budget. In line with this, we are very positive that the race protection project Fatlaberget in Sogn and Fjordane is now being implemented. Racial protection efforts are important for people to feel secure and for people and businesses to have a safe and stable transport service. Now the representatives of the government parties must end by saying that Finnfast «after several years of release of the previous government, now finally agreed». That's not right at all. The previous government did not expose Finnfast. We must agree that the treatment of such matters takes time. They are going through many instances and many levels, but when this matter came to the previous government, it was dealt with at express speed. That being said, the Christian People's Party wants to give praise to the Government for having added the goodwill and tried to limit the tolling period on Sokn. We are very pleased that the Ministry of Transport has concluded that the benefits of lower interest rates should benefit road users in the Sokn toll station. We believe it is wise that the collection period for Sokn in this way should be reduced by two to three months to about five months, from 15 March 2006. When the Christian People's Party does not let the matter lie with this, it is because we want an evaluation of the other proposals on how to avoid an extension of the toll period on Sokn. We are aware that it is now a majority government that governs Norway. However, we hope that this does not mean that proposals for alternative solutions are not considered. We have not recorded that the Ministry has assessed the three proposals contained in the minority comments in the Innst. S. No 95 for 2005-2006. We are therefore promoting the proposals today, in the hope that they will now be evaluated. These are therefore proposals for solutions that can shorten the tolling period in Sokn without additional state resources being granted. I take up the minority proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Finally, I would like to point out that many communities depend on ferries. National road ferries are an important part of a good communication service for citizens and businesses. The best possible offer in terms of frequency and capacity is essential. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes, in the revised national budget, to increase the funding for the operation of national road ferries by 5 million. kr. As far as the tariff system is concerned, the Christian People's Party believes it is positive that it should continue to work on it, so that we can ensure the best possible arrangement for road users. Since I have some time to finish, I would also like briefly to come within the representative Langeland's reference to the opposition parties about our eagerness to promote matters. The representative of Langeland is now in government, and he is likely to be in government for a long time, but in the long run he may be in opposition. Then I understand that the conclusion is that he will stop making suggestions. It could make it a little bit easier for a future government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e847	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e851	The Bondevik II administration with Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm from the Left in the head introduced during the previous peak period the testing of new tariff regulations in the national road transport operations in force from 1 March 2003. The test first applied to five ferry connections, and was then extended to eight connections. The centre party was positive that passengers were allowed to travel for free, but very sceptical that it was the business that had to pay the costs. There were also strong objections from business when it was introduced. For the centre party, it is important to reduce transport costs for business, which are totally dependent on ferries to produce their products to the market. We are therefore very satisfied that the tariff tests will be completed from 31 December 2006, with the exception of the Fleck-Rørvik link. Similarly, the Centre Party is satisfied that the tariff system is being further developed in order to achieve efficiency gains. It is also positive that the introduction of a common payment scheme for all national road journeys is being continued. An introduction of a discount card that can be used throughout the country will bring a great advantage to users. In particular, this would be very beneficial to the industry transporting goods over long distances and through many ferries. As I said in the introduction, the Bondevik II government introduced the testing of new tariff regulations. As this scheme was to be non-profit, costs were incurred by industry. I am therefore surprised to note that the Right and the Left, which in the government position contributed to extra costs for business, now in the form of a decision, propose a tariff system that should not lead to costs being passed on to commercial transport. This may well mean recognizing that this system has hardly any good business order. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government announced that it would launch a free ferry distribution work on the national and county road network. A report on this will be available in 2006. This work is in progress. This leads the Left in the plural note together with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party. At the same time, they agree with the Right on a proposal for a rapid test scheme with free national road ferry. This is very bad. In the previous great age, I followed a lot of social relations in Stortinget. I never registered interest from the impending Minister for Social Security from the Left for trial schemes with a free ferry. As far as I know, there was never any suggestion for this from the previous government. It stands in stark contrast to what the representative Halleraker said in his statement that the Right held the same policy in opposition as in position. This government has shown, and will continue to show, the power of action when it comes to ferry policy. Therefore, it seems both comical and little serious when the two former government parties Right and Left suggest putting into action things that this government has warned, but that they themselves never promote in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e870	I would first like to say that I am well satisfied with the connection that is in the Committee on matters in the summary proposal. I will comment on some of the issues. It is in the summary that we will return to the E18 Krosby–Knapstad budget for 2007. I have noticed that the committee has had and has a desire for rapid progress. I have recently been informed by the Swedish Road Administration that in 2005 the project E18 Krosby–Knapstad took a lot of work. The size has not yet been started by E18 Krosby-Buttonstad for handling. The work on Krosby-Knapstad was done to ensure mass for the construction of the project between Zekelstein and Krosby. Statens vägvesen has now informed that work has also been planned on the project E18 Krosby–Knapstad in 2006, this time to ensure mass for the construction of the project E18 Momarken–Sekkelsten. The Road Service has informed that the County Council has made it necessary for the intervention of Krosby-Knapstad, for the sake of a local bat population, to be carried out in the summer. For the sake of progress, I hope that the Storting would agree that work can be done on the E18. I am very satisfied with the signals I have received from this pulpit today that this can happen. If not, one would have missed a whole season and must have waited because of its decision by the county council. I'm grateful you've shown good will in the hall today. The Road Service has stated that such mass migration between the E18 projects will be necessary based on a measure of rational development of the road. I'm not happy that the information about this was too late for me to be able to do any good for it in the proposition. I knew the situation first in the last few days. I will do more about the matter in the context of the 2007 state budget. In the case of rv. 150 Ulven–Sinsen, the Ministry of Transport — as the Committee also mentions — comes back to a revised estimate of costs, further progress and funding of the project when further clarifications are made. In St. prp. No 38 for 2005-2006 on Finnfast, a funding contribution of 65 million was provided. kr by extending the toll collection in Sokn toll station at E39 in Rennesøy by seven to eight months. In connection with the management of this proposition, the Stortinget Government asked to consider adjustments to the financing facility in order to reduce the time period for the prolonged collection. Possible adjustments would be to use lower borrowing rates than those envisaged in St.prp. No 38, and faster payment of the delivered ferry charges. The government has assessed such adjustments and, since the toll company has entered into a new fixed interest rate agreement, a lower borrowing rate than that of St.prp may be applied. No 38 came to an end. The Government has proposed that this advantage be granted to road users in the Sokn toll station. This means that the recovery period will be reduced by two to three months to about five months, estimated from 15 March this year. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee has agreed with this assessment. When it comes to the payment of the delivered fee, the Government does not recommend that changes be made to the principle of the time of payment. A single payment of the ferry ticket will break the mindset of the model that is incorporated and followed in all previous cases. A single payment will mean that the holiday budget will actually be weaker, and the consequence will be either a reduction in the ferry supply and/or an increase in tariffs, or that one will have to add funds from other road budget items. I am therefore pleased that the majority joins the Government's proposal to stick to the original model for the payment of ferry tickets. I'll also tell you a little bit about rv. 55 between Sogndal and Leikanger. There are two rascals, one at Stedjeberget and one at Fatlaberget. The work on the Stedjeberg is well under way and progress is faster than foreseen. The project is scheduled to be opened for traffic in the summer of 2007. In recent years there have been several shut-downs on Rv. 55 at Fatlaberget. Measures have been implemented to clean up and set up traps to protect against the smallest falls, but protection against greater rock can only be achieved by building a tunnel. The project will be very important to increase road safety and will allow Leikanger and Sogndal municipalities to further develop as a common construction and work area. The project covers the construction of about 3.2 km of new road and a 2.3 km of tunnel. Construction work is planned to start in the autumn of 2006, with a traffic opening in 2008. In the big message about the national transport plan, 50 pst was assumed by the dwindling government. tolls would apply. The majority of the Committee on Transport said that even if the general rule had to be 50 pst, it would also be flexible in areas with a low traffic base. I'm written in that assessment. I think it is important to implement the racial protection of Fatlaberget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e899	We have received a new government, as has been said several times in both this and the previous case. In this case, we get some new policy. It's in return terribly bad. The funding of racial protection projects with tolls is a terriblely bad policy. Where the Government could create new, important, and solidarity policies, it rejected. Now the state council has just repeated the reason in the case, that a model with early payment of holiday redeemers is not recommended. The point, of course, is not – as the Council of State still argues – that this should be at the expense of other items in the current year’s budget, but it should be an advance from a state that has a lot of money. Of course, in order to help with the cost of fissure projects, it must be seen as a loan, and treated as a loan, including in the government budgets. So that's why my question is, does the Council of State really mean what she's saying now? So if you were to choose a new policy and secure the advance payment of holiday-relief funds in order to facilitate the financing provided by people other than the state, would you have to take that money from elsewhere in the budget instead of borrowing it, thus facilitating the financing for others who pay the country's bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e908	First of all, it was a very bad thing that the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, did not get Finnfast, so we could see how a wanted to finance the project. It was like big words in the election campaign. Unfortunately, it's not exactly what was said, that it was done quickly and well by the previous government. The fast and good work had to be done after the government change. This is how I claim that we have a budgetary framework that is adopted in the budget. If you allow an increase in one place, it means cut in another place. I note that the Progress Party has a different view of it, and has a different way of budgeting than the other party, but I stick to the budget line that I am allocated through the various budgetary rounds. And then it's actually so that increasing the frame a place means cut elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e915	It concerns a theme that has been addressed in the past, namely Proven Neutrality. I would venture the claim that this is an amount that society would probably get back in overall by getting better efficiency and savings on the ticket page. This is exactly what AutoPASS is doing. I want to ask the State Council for. There we have – as I know at least – agreed that this is where the ambition will go on to cover not only toll stations, but ferries, perhaps car parks and also service stations for consumers. Now this stops. So this is a system that would significantly ease the daily lives of road users, and I think it is regrettable. Does the Council agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e922	Previous government started more pilot projects to try out a new fare system. After the completion of the pilot projects, there has been an evaluation, and there has been a hearing with different bodies. Interests in industry and not least local authorities have had the opportunity to express their views. The hearing round after the tests was very negative, and it was mainly due to the fact that costs were passed on to certain categories of vehicles. Even after assessing different adaptations, I found that it was so unfortunate that I stopped that process. I want to continue by looking at how we can develop a tariff system that doesn't get the unfortunate outcomes that a guy made up with in the previous period. That's why I took a break.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e927	I understand that the government is not dealing with minority proposals from the Storting, but sometimes there may be some good bits in minority proposals, and it may also be that a majority government may occasionally need a minority. So, as far as Finnfast is concerned, a minority suggested a three-point proposal that might have led to a significant reduction in the amount of time we needed to have the bomb on the Sokn. I've said in the past that I'm happy for what's done there. I simply repeat the three points of the proposal, and then I ask the Minister's comments on them: to transfer interest-free loans from Rennfast of 16.7 million. SEK for Finnfastat operating and maintenance costs on the road network shall not be financed during the depreciation period by state and local government ferries, but shall be financed from the regular budget, normally by using the traffic base recommended by the Directorate of Road
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e946	The government also assessed the different elements in relation to the transfer of interest-free loans on Rennfast, and the assessment was presented in the proposition. One judged it so that one did not go into that scheme. When it applies to the other points, I have of course evaluated them, but I have not come to realize that I want to go into them. I agree with the representative of Sahl: we must listen to minorities, and we must also take the minority very seriously. I also want this hall to build wide multiples as far as possible. There was also a point that was mentioned, on the basis of the traffic base recommended by the Road Directorate in the usual way. A project quality assurance system is in place. There was the previous government that made that principle apply, and it was in the process that traffic figures were changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e955	In a previous case, the Council of State did not understand my question, so I will try to be clear and clear now. I record in the proposition that the Council of State has now stopped changes in the tariff system. My question is: will the Council of State go away from what was at stake for Proven Neutrality, so that with the purchase of national roads it will be gone, so that the national roads will be free of charge, as the Government really wants? Can the Council confirm that she will take this into account when continuing to work on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e962	The Soria Moria statement states that the ferries are both part of the national road network and that the government will work to reduce the burden, to make use of the ferries more reasonable and to arrange a free ferry. We're doing both of them. We put down the tariffs by 5 pst. on value cards from 1 May. We are in the process of distributing a free ferry and, when it is finished, we shall assess whether we should have some sections as a trial project for a free ferry. On the question of going away from Provenance neutrality, what I've just said is that in everything that the Government is doing in the future in the ferry sector, it's going to be an overarching goal out of Soria Moria that it's going to be more reasonable for people to use the ferries. That's why we couldn't go on with the project that was from the previous government, which would have actually given a huge increase in costs to some groups, not least to the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e970	I interpret the previous response from the Council of State positively in terms of the tariff regime. Sometimes it's wise to pause, see where you're going, and where you're going, but I hope that doesn't mean that you're going to lower the level of ambition just to develop the AutoPASS system. Norway has been in the forefront here, and is still developing that system, including for Nordic interoperability and beyond in the European perspective. I hope that's part of what the Council of State takes time to think through during the break.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e975	As I said in my previous answer, the system that you had on the test was unfortunate for some groups. I have still not received a good answer as to whether we can get a system with AutoPASS where one comes out better. We may have to come back to that. I can't say today that we have a system with AutoPASS, but it's clear that I understand the representative Halleraker's wish that one should get an easy system. Of course, the simplest system would be to get a free ferry, so we got rid of both AutoPASS and other things. It's a good goal to work towards. But until that happens, at least the Council of State and the Government's intention is to simplify the system as much as possible, for the benefit of the travellers who use the ferries along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e982	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e987	I want to bring forward one of the issues in the merger proposition, and it concerns the racial protection of Fatlaberget in Sogn and Fjordane. This is a particularly important road route for us to have a construction and labour market in Inner Sogn. It has really been a long and winding road until we are as far as we are today. When spokesman Olav Lunden in Leikanger took up the proceedings at the constituent municipal government meeting on October 30, 2003, this matter had not progressed for 15 years! The distribution showed that it was possible to fund tolls for racial protection by Fatlaberget. The approval of the local government in Leikanger and Sogndal took place in January 2005, and in April the toll company was founded. This toll financing of race protection for Fatlaberget is well anchored in the local environment, both in Leikanger and in Sogndal. It must be a happy day today for the Leikanger spokesman, who just had the racial security of the Fatlaberg as his accession promise to the people of Leikanger three years ago. The 500 people who commute out of Leikanger every day can travel safely, the 240 people who commute into Leikanger every day can travel safely, and – last but not least – 100–120 school students who travel daily on this route can also travel safely. Yeah, it's an easy one for anyone who travels on this distance, and for everyone who lives in the area, that we're now getting this racial protection in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1000	I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that the Stortinget today ensures that you can continue to take out mass in a mountain that lies on a stretch of E18 that has not yet been taken up for development. The fact that you can do it on such short notice shows that you have the ability to be flexible in order to do reasonable things. When I take the floor anyway, it's because you're wondering what there is with a regulation that makes such an obvious thing have to be within the Storting. In fact, this house is busy steering every single weakness of the know-how for which there is a majority, but so detailed we can't be that we should also decide which mountains to blow apart in order to get a stone to that road! At least it can't be that a statesman – bat or not bat – can say no to take out mass in a mountain that lies a little further ahead on the route, even though this house has not decided that one can start building there. The alternative is to blow up another mountain, and in this case you would get too much rock when you were going to blow out the mountain that you can now blow up. I therefore hope the Council of State can also look at where, in what detail, this devil is sitting, so that we can not have political treatment at all. This is something that the contractor should be able to assess from where it is most reasonable and reasonable, and where it will provide the best development. I've been told, I don't know if it's true, that the tunnel from the centre of Tromsø to the airport was able to do the following: A shelter was to be built, but the contractor didn't stop blasting until he was through the mountain on the other side. Then the hole was there, and the authorities were forced to asphaltify, so the road came. It's not an exemplary way to do it, but the other extreme is to make such a strict code that you can't start making arrangements for a stretch that's to come, even if you don't know when it's coming, and even if it's not decided to come. Therefore, I hope the Council of State can go back and find out in what detail this problem is sitting, and then come back to the Storting and get it solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1007	The three minutes I have available, I'm not going to use. After the Council of State's reply here today, I would just like to ask that the proposal from the Right and the Left be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2625]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1028	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Borghild Tenden, then Bendiks H. Arnesen. The President cannot see that the representative Borghild Tenden is in the Chamber. Then the President will give the floor to Mr Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1039	I mean to be well aware of what the county roads have to say for the districts, and as far as the county I come from, I have literally felt poor county road standards both on the body and on the car. So I come from a state that has a lot of rural roads that are in difficult terrain and, unfortunately, still in poor condition. Especially about the spring in the telescopic solution, it can be in some places completely unfeasible, and the gravel roads remind more of a potato field than about the road. This, of course, creates major problems for businesses, commuters and others who have to use such routes. These are, therefore, essential roads for fishing, aquaculture, agriculture and other industries to operate and for people to live in viable rural and coastal communities. These are ways that are absolutely vital to the great value creation that is taking place in our districts. Poor carrying capacity, narrow road width and lack of solid cover often result in very expensive transhipments to obtain raw material and to get finished goods out to the market. With today's large and heavy trailers it goes without saying that these cannot travel with full load along narrow and poor highways. This often means that lighter and smaller transport equipment must transport the products to and from areas with poor road standards. Everyone understands that such conditions quickly cut into the profitability of district holdings and do not stimulate their settlement. In Troms the situation has at times been so difficult that it has been considered to break up poor asphalt on county roads and lay gravel on them, this because the roads are becoming more reasonable to repair that way than by repairing bad asphalt. Poor asphalt can also be directly dangerous to traffic. The politicians in my home country have prioritised the county roads high within the small budgets they have had available in recent years, but despite this, it is still very poor county road. The county has simply not had enough money to get up to date with the maintenance because of the large size and difficult – and expensive – terrain to work with. We know that there are great differences from state to state as to the number of kilometres of county road, what kind of terrain these roads are in, and how much maintenance is needed. In my opinion, it is therefore not right to create an economic package that is being pushed over all the counties. There are counties with the maximum number of kilometres of county road and the most expensive extensions that, if possible, need extra help getting up to date with maintenance. The most important thing is that county councils have such a large overall financial framework that they are responsible for the tasks they are assigned to them. Some states will in any case need additional assistance from the state to get up to date with the maintenance and to get an acceptable standard on their county roads. This also has something to do with distribution and how much of the overall framework each county must use to establish an acceptable road standard. This should be assessed and open to the Government in its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1070	The next speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, who has now arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1073	I'm sorry about the incident. It's never going to happen again. The left sees the need for increased bets on the county road network. That's why it's good that the Progress Party has focused on this, even though we can't support the way they want to solve this challenge. We have also seen that the Council of State is very concerned about our county roads, and that she has promised a lot in this context both in the election campaign and now as the Council of State. We look forward to this being realized. Large parts of our county road network are not dimensioned for today's traffic. The left is deeply concerned that road maintenance and traffic growth may have a major impact on, for example: road safety. Therefore, the left considers that there is a need to invest in road maintenance, in particular in the interests of road safety. There is therefore a need to review how this challenge can be addressed without suffocating the economy of the county. The right, Christian People’s Party and the left therefore propose today that a plan be drawn up for challenges on the county road network. I noticed, as I said, that some government parties went offensively into the campaign and promised better highways. I am surprised that they do not support this proposal. I have good knowledge of the conditions of the county roads in Akershu County. Schoolchildren must travel short distances because it is lethal to travel on some roads. This drive generates even more traffic, so this is an evil circle. The county roads are not dimensioned for current traffic density. The reason for this miscarriage in Akershus is, among other things, the student growth rate in secondary school. The economy is particularly tight because of increasing migration to the county, with a student growth of about a thousand students per year. years. This consumes most of the money for the county. Education, which is required by law, takes 66.5 pst. of Akershus’ resources, while traffic is still around 16.5 pst. – and this will go to road maintenance, public transport, road safety, etc. Akershus is in the situation that neither big city funds nor regional development support are being provided and, as a result, very poor. In the latest edition of ‘Road and We’, published by the State Road Service, we can read about traffic trends in percent per year. counties, forecasts and real increases. It's scary to see how these numbers crack. We have to take this seriously. And with the touching cross-political consensus I think we're going to meet here today, I see no reason for this not to happen. We are now awaiting the initiative of the Government in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1090	Unfortunately, delays on public road networks in Norway have been proven to be excessive. Last but not least, the Road Traffic Information Council, which, in cooperation with the State Road Service, has estimated that all three road categories have fallen to 40 billion kroner – 12 billion kroner on highways, 11.5 billion kroner on county roads and 17 billion kroner on municipal roads. Norway is getting richer and richer, while Norwegian roads are getting worse and worse. When Norwegian road capital matures, it is not just car owners and businesses that pay. Bad roads are poor social economy, longer transport time, extra fuel and maintenance costs, extra emissions and extra accidents. Road maintenance delays have increased for many years. Arguing governments and shifting majority can probably find reasons to blame each other. What concerns people most is not political guilt settlement, but political action that can correct the situation within an acceptable time. The consequences of poor maintenance are far too well known over many years in the school sector. Many years of evidence of extensive maintenance shortages and poor conditions for Norwegian school students led to the launch of a comprehensive programme of upgrading school buildings in municipalities and county municipalities from the 2002 state budget. It is done through the use of interest-rate and non-deductible loans. In the five years that have passed, 12 billion kroner have been spent on such upgrading, and the programmes have been expanded several times along the way. It benefits, it turns out again, and there is willingness among municipalities and county councils to use such loans. If we are to have the same upgrading of public road networks, it must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, make a strong effort to, first and foremost, from the state. In this Document, No: The 8-proposal takes the Advance Party by itself the County Roads. We believe that we need to use the same recipe as for school buildings in order to remove road maintenance delays in the country’s counties – between 11 and 12 billion kroner. This cannot be achieved even within a reasonable period of time, and the time is also important in order to prevent further maturity. Road maintenance losses on the county roads are not only noticeable – they are approaching disaster, say representatives of bus companies, truck industry and businesses across the country. The Progress Party has mentioned two different solutions in the proposal. One solution covers county branch. There is a possible one-third distribution of grants, one-third of government loans and one-third of county ownership. The Progress Party points out that the overall framework should be DKK 10 billion distributed over five years. That is the solution that the Council of State has commented on in its assessment of the proposal. She rejects this primarily on the grounds that such a scheme is binding on county council funds for a long time, and that this must be given priority to other measures for which county councils are responsible. That's absolutely right, but that priority believes the Progress Party County is able to do itself. In fact, the Progress Party believes that many county councils would be interested in such a scheme. But this isn't going to be any of the other parties. The reasons given by the government parties have actually been received for the longest time outside the staging hall. In the magazine Transport Forum No. 4 for 2006 the representative Torstein Rudihagen of the Workers' Party designates this proposal as a ‘demonstration proposal’. Of course, it is not meant as a political demonstration, but as a concrete political proposal with a concrete, practical solution. The second solution proposed in the document, which is repeated in the Progress Party's motion for a resolution – which is thus accepted – is a two-part proposal on State grants and state loans. The Council of State has not commented on this, nor on the other parties. Let me add: should you have the opinion that 50 pst. Grants in order to do something that really fits with the county roads are too much, could, of course, be proposed for a pure blueprint of the scheme for upgrading school buildings. But it has not come from other parties either. One simply will not, for the simple reason that this is a good proposal from the Progress Party. It is a pity for the county councils, but above all it is a sin for the inhabitants and for the business community of the country's 19 counties. The fallout on the country's road network must be stopped! The Progress Party has a concrete proposal that can lead to the upgrading of the county road network over five years by means of government grants and government loans. It's a shame no one wants to be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1120	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1123	The right-hand side shares the concern expressed by the Progress Party in the proposal that we are dealing with here in the Chamber today. Maintenance delays are high and increasing and the situation is highly serious. Therefore, the Right – along with the Christian People's Party and the Left – proposes to ask the Government to draw up its own plan for how to solve this challenge on the county road network. Therefore, when we are promoting our own proposal today, it is not because of disagreement about the description of reality in the proposal under consideration. The numbers' speech is ready enough. According to new figures from the Directorate of Roads, the number of road maintenance has now fallen to approximately 14 billion on highways and 11 billion on county roads. These are dramatic numbers. We can conclude that the level of appropriations for road maintenance is too low and needs to be increased. There has been an increase in appropriations in recent years, but in close enough. The recycling value of the road network is approximately NOK 400 billion. We must give priority to maintenance, so that the bill for putting the road network into acceptable condition is not unmanageable. We have to make some clear grip, we have to have a reasonable chance, because it's a good deal ahead. The county councils obviously do not have the power to handle their responsibilities in this area. The routes are experientially followed by a balancing item when other assigned tasks are to be carried out. It is therefore necessary to create more predictability in terms of the level of appropriations and priorities. As it is today, the whole community is losing. The county roads are in many ways the capillary network in our road system, and many important export companies, especially on the coast, are at the end of such roads, because they have a proximity to the sea. Large parts of this county road network are not dimensioned for current traffic and vehicles. There is therefore a need not only for maintenance but also for a standard lift on many sections. We have, as mentioned, a proposal here today, and believe that the problem must be tackled in a different and more thorough way than we are today. In addition to increasing appropriations, we need to carry out an appropriate plan of progress and organisation, while at the same time respecting local self-government. If we are to get this back to life, we need to rethink and use resources as best we can. I would like to mention the proposal that is included in the vote on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1140	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1143	In this private proposal, the Progress Party addresses an important issue. The maintenance run on both the highways and the highways is large, too large, and there is no doubt that the aftermath creates problems. People complain about poor road standards, and those who are set to repair and carry out the maintenance on the roads see that it just becomes more, no less, to do. So the private proposal by the representatives of the parties points to an important topic. It is only a pity that the instruments proposed are not edible. Either they are unrealistic and impracticable, or they are simply contrary to the basic principles of the Christian People's Party. Let me say a little bit about such a fundamental principle first, local democracy. The reason why we in Norway do not have a system in which the central government has all the power is that we believe in the principle that some decisions should be taken as much as possible ‘most people’. One would think it was important for the party 'for the most people', but no, there's not always word and action hanging in the hop. It knows best where the shoe prints, which has it on it, it's called. In a democratic society, decisions have to be taken as close as possible to them. A well-functioning local democracy is very important. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to work for the government to govern through a framework, so that the freedom of action of the local authorities increases and local democracy is strengthened. I'm not in doubt that people want more money on the roads. The problem is that with the system proposed by the Progress Party, the budget of the counties is bound up. Central authorities decide that road should be given priority. That means that something else has to be down-prioritized, because politics is giving priority: if we want more to one area, we have to cut in another area -- that's the reality. The Christian People's Party believes that the county council should retain the freedom to manage its own budgets. And with a government that still promises to strengthen the economy of the municipalities and county municipalities, we hope the counties actually get more money for road operation and maintenance. In that case, the Christian People's Party will be supported, although it must be said that the Government has used the increase in free money for municipalities many times. It is amazing how far they stretch, these crowns – to schools, to care for the elderly, to hospitals, to road maintenance, etc. The package of measures proposed in Document No. 8:43, is not a good solution to the challenge that exists, but the proposers point to an important need. In fact, the counties are unable to manage the maintenance of the county roads with the budgets they have available today. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the Government in the form of proposals to come back with a plan to address the challenges on the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1161	According to figures from the Directorate of Roads, some 43 billion kroner have been drawn from road maintenance. It's almost 93,000 km of road. The amount is distributed as follows: approx. 17 billion kroner on the municipal road network, approx. 14 billion kroner on the national road network and approx. $12 billion on the county road network. So these are significant sums! The government's ambition is to reverse this negative trend, which has evolved over many years. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has committed itself to follow up the decision in the National Transport Plan, which will mean an increase of about 2 billion dollars annually in relation to the Bondevik II Government’s proposal for a commercial destination. Through the 2006 supplementary proposal, as well as proposals in the revised State budget, the framework for trade has increased by 833 million. kr. It shows that this government has the will to bet on social affairs. The centre party fully shares the concerns expressed by the proposalers of the Progress Party when applying the standard on the county road network. I thought it was affordable that the progress party was both busy and engaged in the lack of road maintenance on this important network. But it is a paradox that, through the budgetary differences that the Progress Party has had with the Bondevik II government, the increase in road maintenance within the national road network was another 1 million. kr. It shows that there is a long way between life and learning when it comes to maintenance within our road network. The county road network is the responsibility of the county councils. Therefore, it is important for both the Government and the Central Party that the local economy be significantly strengthened. I noticed that the representative from the Christian People's Party almost grievanced that the government was doing well to increase the scope of the local government sector. But I have a rhetorical question: what would it look like if we hadn't gotten this increase? The fact that the municipal sector received DKK 5.7 billion more in 2006 than in 2005, means that the municipal economy was also strengthened. And with a more liberal framework, the county councils are able to spend more money on maintaining the county road network. When it comes to the concrete presentation by the Progress Party of a voluntary government loan scheme to refurbish the road network, the Central Party believes that this is an interesting proposal. In the setting, the members from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left stress that the county councils are responsible for the county road network, while acknowledging that the county does not do the tasks within the "available, economic framework" as it says in the setting. Does this mean that these parties – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – think that the frameworks of the municipal sector have been too low for the last four years – too small? The same parties now propose that the Government submit a plan to solve the challenges on the county road network. And then I have to ask, what kind of plan are these parties talking about? Is that a big message? Is there a proposal for increased investment in the local government sector? Is that a proposal for ear-marked funds? I thought the comment from the Right, the Christian People's Party, and the Left was badly related to the proposal. On the one hand, they argue that this is a county responsibility, and on the other hand, the ministry is asked to present a plan for how the government will solve the challenges on the county road network! If we're going to solve these challenges, we need money. For the Central Party, the main instrument is to increase the framework of the local government sector. That work is well done by the Government, and it will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1180	There are major challenges associated with the maintenance of the Norwegian road. This is why the Government, in addition to the Bondevik Government budget for 2006 and the revised 2006 budget, has combined to increase road maintenance by 201 million. kr. The maintenance allowance for the county roads is slightly lower than for the national road network, which is estimated to be 14.5 billion kroner per year. 1 January 2007. It is alarming that the maintenance run for the county road network will increase by the level that is on the licenses today. The increasing lag on the county road network leads to disadvantages for road users, in the form of both several accidents, increased travel time and higher transport costs. If maintenance is not done in a timely manner, experience shows that the damage will be more extensive and cost-intensive to repair at a later date. The performance and geometry of the county roads are often far below what is required for heavy traffic. As a result, road cover quickly becomes uneven and has a large televised effect during periods of the year. About 55 pst. of the road network has an axle load of 10 tonnes. I assume that we're all certain that the standard on the county road network is too bad. The question is therefore how best to achieve a reduction in the standard. The government has chosen to do this through the current management system, by increasing, as a first step, the transfers to municipalities by several billion dollars in the state budget for 2006. By means of the 2007 municipal bill, the Government has announced that the escalation will continue. I am noticing that the county councils are currently responsible for the costs of investment, maintenance and operation of the county road network. The counties can freely give priority to the free income of different areas without any of the funds being earmarked for such purposes. transportation and maintenance of the county road network. The county councils have not been able to adequately allocate funds to the county road network because of their plurality of budget and, of course, because of the need for funds to other important areas, such as roads. Go to school. Although we have no guarantee that more resources will be used for the county road network, an increase in transfers to municipalities is the most important contribution to this. I am pleased that a collective opposition now seemed to join the government's policy of increasing the rights of municipalities and counties. The proposal in Document No. 8:43 which is handled here today, add an earmark of funds. The proposal to return to the maintenance of the county roads is a government concession and a loan arrangement for the county councils. The proposal states that costs should be shared by one-third State premium, one-third State loan with compensation for interest over five years and one-third private financing from counties. When the proposal is to have a framework of DKK 10 billion, large values will be earmarked both through government grants and through the self-financing of the county municipalities. The final own-funding must inevitably be financed through the free revenues. As I see it, we shall continue with the practice that the county councils are responsible for these priorities. As a result, it is clear that the majority of the Committee rejects such a package of measures, built up in the manner proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1202	I see in the newspaper ‘Road and we’ that the Minister of Transport has now started work on making more realistic forecasts of traffic growth on Norwegian roads. That's very good. We see that there are very big differences between states in forecasting and real increases. The worst people out here are Eastfold, Akershus and Westfold. My question is: Will the Council of State promise special measures to states where the gap is greatest between forecasts and real increases? Is that what is meant by the work that is now going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1207	Of course, the work on real forecasts is linked to the work of the national transport plan, which will have updated figures, so that a non-future transport policy is based on outdated data. That's the only answer I can give. If this would lead to a re-priority of funds, I cannot answer today. I also have no answer as to what the prognosis will look like when we've got it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1212	I wonder if the Council of State is aware of the package that the previous government introduced in relation to the maintenance of school buildings. The municipalities were in line because of the big needs they had, despite the fact that this was only a loan over five years, and without getting the money from the state. You only got interest-free and tax-free loans for five years. This shows that the municipalities are in a queue to access such schemes. The Council of State was also concerned that the Government wanted to secure municipal roads with the money allocated to the municipal sector. You have to take care of the elderly. It is necessary to ensure that 10,000 new hands in the care professions are secured – there is no way to ensure that the appropriations made so far by the Government are safe. But do the state councils also know that the states of Buskerud, Telemark and Westfold are now borrowing money to do something about the bad county roads? What will the Council of State do to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1221	Governments are well aware of the loan arrangements for school buildings. As I understand it works reasonably well. I don't have any detailed knowledge about this. I was not in the Storting in the previous period, nor was I in government. But I'm familiar with it, it's me. The most important means of achieving a better commitment to the county roads is to ensure that municipalities and county municipalities receive more funding over the framework, so that a real priority is given to them. I myself have ten years as a regional politician. I also have years behind me as a local politician and have seen that the municipal economy has been frantic, so to speak, for some years. This, of course, leads to a prioritisation of the statutory services as a continuing school for the county council, and then it often goes beyond the county roads. I know about the decision made in the BTV collaboration to borrow 100 million. kr. It is precisely the freedom, of course, that the county councils have. This is the county's responsibility. I am aware of the wishes of the county councils and KS for a greater part of the road network to be transferred to new regions, and there is a strong pressure in relation to this. Of course, I expect that a person now shows that a priority is given to the road network today, to show that one can do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1232	One of the three variants of the Progress Party solution is a pure blue copy of the school building scheme. With regard to the school construction scheme, which has received DKK 12 billion, the same argument that the Council of State is now using could be used, that municipalities and county councils must do this by themselves. The size has had a completely different view. The size has been unanimous with regard to the loan scheme for school buildings. There you have unanimously entered and helped municipalities and county municipalities. Why can't you do the same with regard to road maintenance in county municipalities, which have the same narrow economy, and which have a huge aftermath? More have mentioned the figure, which is between 11 and 12 billion dollars? Why can we not at least offer the same solution for road maintenance in county municipalities as the one we actually have for the maintenance of school buildings, also in county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1237	The fact that we have developed a school system does not mean that we should use blue copies and transfer them to transportation. I am currently recording that the Progress Party is the only party that will make such an arrangement entirely outside of all budgetary processes. In the government there is a budgetary process for the next year in which we discuss both local economy and other solutions to strengthen both county roads and other countries that need it. So we get to come back to it when the budget is presented. I insist that the most important thing you can do to ensure both municipal roads, which are perhaps the worst, and county roads, is to ensure a good municipal economy. We started it last year. $5.7 billion let the government in. It is clear that there are many tasks to be resolved, but fortunately, the funds are now being used more extensively on the county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1246	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1251	Of course, the county councils have a heavy responsibility for maintaining the county roads. I record that several county councils, including my own, Vestfold, now borrow money for asphalting in an attempt to cure past years of neglect. I think that'll prove to be a good investment. Many county roads are now in such a bad condition that there is no longer an extraordinary maintenance effort, but rather a clean rehabilitation. The reason for the situation we have experienced on the county road network is the year under-funding of county municipalities. It is only this year, with the power taken by the Government to improve the municipal economy, that the county councils see some possibility of strengthening road maintenance, among other things. in the form of borrowings. Continued improvement of the municipal economy will provide room for increased maintenance efforts, but it obviously requires county municipalities to give priority to county roads rather than other good purposes. We know municipal autonomy in this country, and we have a municipal and county election in over a year. May I remind you that the government also has significant operational and maintenance tasks on the national road network. The maintenance maintenance run is increasing by 800 million. kr annually. Although the Government is now making an effort in the draft revised national budget to increase maintenance appropriations, there is still much to be done. This cannot continue in length. A lack of local politicians and policymakers have noticed in the form of a new road, a tunnel or a bridge. So far, no one has been given the bava for good road maintenance. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1263	It was the contribution of the representative Eli Sollied Överaas who made me extend the debate for a short time. She managed to say that I had a hunch about the government's commitment to the local economy. To that I would say, on the contrary! I don't understand how it could be felt like this. I have great respect for the increase this government has made in terms of the local economy. But it is of course that even the increase that this government made can not be used to solve all the problems in the municipalities. That's what I pointed out. Even with this allocation, you can't solve the problems we have on the county road network. Then it must be timely to address the sitting government, which is a majority government, and which used the entire election campaign to tell about who would be responsible when the majority government was in place. Now this majority government is in place, and the small thing we're asking for is to get an overview of the challenges that we're facing on the county road network in total. Then we have to participate and contribute, and we have to join in and applaud for a continued increase on the municipal economy side, which also benefits the county municipalities. Finally, I would just like to inform you that with regard to the previous government, priority was given to operating and maintenance with the means available. Nominally, we increased by 18 pst. Actually, it was 4.3 pst. increase to the operation and maintenance of the road network as a whole in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1270	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1286	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1295	The representatives of Løvik and Halleraker have made proposals to ask the Government to assess the organisation of the deployment and operation of the E136 Ålesund-Upland border as a tollless OPS project. As rapporteur, I would first like to outline briefly the content of the proposal and its consideration in the Committee. The main reasons for the proposal are the need for major improvements to the E136 route between Ålesund and Uppland border. The distance is approx. 230 km, and large parts of the exports from More and Romesdal are on the E136. Industrial transport from domestic and foreign countries is increasing, and road safety problems at risk of loss of life and health are increasing. The proposers wish to speed up a project which is nevertheless to be developed. They believe that this route is appropriate as a OPS project because there are significant socio-economic gains to be gained from rapid implementation. The proposers believe that the OPS model should be used, and refer to positive experience with large savings, direct financial gain to society in addition to the possibility of using the project earlier than otherwise. The majority of the Committee, i.e. the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party, reject the proposal. The majority refers to the completion of three pilot projects in accordance with a OPS model and an evaluation of the experience of the OPS projects shall be carried out. The majority express scepticism for the use of OPS as a method of financing, while referring to the budgetary procedure, where the same majority ask the Government to fund projects and the ‘so quickly that such a system can be included in the financing of projects for the 2007 budget’. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left consider that important factors on the route, such as the increase in the movement of food from home and abroad, the increase in road safety problems at risk of loss of life and health, and the increase in traffic costs, suggest that the distance should be given priority when new OPS projects are to be launched. Members shall make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the organisation of the development and operation of the whole or part of the route E136 Ålesund – Upland border as a tollless OPS project’.» I take up the proposal herein. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left further point out that any new decisions on the use of the OPS model will be relevant for projects where there are significant socio-economic gains in the fastest possible implementation and where the size and complexity of the projects are prominent. The OPS model will also be natural where requirements for the standard for future operations and maintenance are indisputable. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party consider that the use of the OPS model needs to be significantly extended and propose their own proposals. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State will carry out the announced evaluation of the OPS funding. The Ministry of Transport is preparing the evaluation of the first three projects. This evaluation will determine whether the Government will propose new OPS projects. Governments have also assured that project funding has been launched as a new and not as a replacement for OPS funding. When reading the configuration, it may appear that the government’s representatives in the hall are significantly more critical of the OPS model than their own State Council. I hope this can be clarified during the debate. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the announced project funding model, and we look forward to getting more information on how to achieve this. We are committed to supporting the launch of several OPS projects where it has a sound technical and political justification and is wanted locally. I think an overall committee will join the majority's objective of finding ways of financing transport projects that ensure the lowest possible cost of funding. Finally, I have been in charge of an inspection of the entire route from Oppland border to Ålesund. There is a great need for an upgrade here. Some projects are under way, and others are waiting, for example: Tresfjordbrua and the entrance route to Ålesund. My recommendation to the Council of State is that she take out the gateway to Ålesund – a project that, after new calculations, will be in the range of 600 to 700 million. kr, if you have to take the tunnels that can now be required there and do so in accordance with the OPS model.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1326	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1329	The Labour Party has, with some wonder, followed this case. So what we are dealing with today is a private proposal from two representatives from the Right. The proposal was initially aimed at expanding and operating the Ålesund-Upland border on E136 as a OPS project without toll financing. We believed the representatives meant the whole route. But in the setting, they're moderated. Then it's just part of the distance. There are temptations to resort to the expression: Up like a bear and down like a skin trap. For those of us who have followed the media in More and Romesdal in this case, at least it's not the impression that Right will fund only parts of the distance. There will also be something strange when the representatives from the Right now come up with the proposal for additional use of OPS funding – this because the Bondevik II government, with just the right in the head, called for an evaluation of the three pilot projects with OPS. In the previous government’s proposal for a national transport plan, which I believe is a good proposal, the Right Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, called for ‘an overall assessment of the experience when all procurement processes have been completed’. Then it is up to the proposers to explain to the Storting why they are now proposing OPS funding on even one project before the evaluation has been completed. It may actually seem that OPS funding is an ideological question for Right more than an answer to the request for more money for road development. Right, and certainly the Progress Party, in this debate, it will be most likely that who is the best friend of the carist when it comes to road construction. Those concerned with road construction should then note that the Right and the Progress Party were responsible for the transport budget in 2002, 2003 and 2005. If these parties are so touching some that the standard on the Norwegian road is poor, it is quite strange that the Right did no more in government in four years, and it is equally strange that the Progress Party, with the influence of three out of four government budgets in the previous period, did not get any more done on the road side. I believe the Christian People's Party and the Left will confirm that it was not the ones who held back when the money was to be distributed. The working party's alternative to OPS funding is project financing. It is clear from the Soria-Moria Declaration that the Government is to make such an arrangement. The objective of such a method of funding is to achieve a rational and coherent development of important transport projects. This objective is the same for project financing as for OPS. But unlike OPS, our alternative will come out with much lower funding costs. One of the reasons for this is that the country may have completely different returns on capital than private investors. One of the main objectives of project financing is to ensure the lowest possible funding costs, so that the funds are used to build infrastructure instead of to cover interest costs. In the national transport plan, there are projects on E136 for 660 million. kr. without toll collection. The other expansion projects on the E136 will be natural to come back on the next roll of the NTP. This government has increased the transport budget proposed by the Bondevik II government by more than 800 million. kr. The aim of the work party is still to implement the national transport plan. We're going to reach that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1344	Briefly to the previous speaker: I must be allowed to remind you that in one of the four years of the previous period, the Workers' Party had an agreement with a minority government and boasted of what they had done in 2004, even on the road. That was probably about the same level as the Progress Party achieved in each year's agreements. After all, the Labour Party is keen to forget – the benefits they themselves have managed to achieve in their own negotiations with minority governments. I have to be short, because the time is running on a Friday. The proposal by the Right-wing Representatives for an OPS project in Ålesund is a good proposal, considers the Progress Party. That is why we are also involved in the proposal, and the text is ‘the whole or part of the route’. It shows some transparency, but the signal and direction are pretty clear – we want to use the OPS model. It also makes the Progress Party in line with its own proposals in connection with the 2006 main budget – also joined by each of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left – to get more OPS projects. The argument in the letter of reply from the Council of State is a little strange. One of the arguments is that this should be an too small project. I think there's going to be a rather sought-after argument against possibly using a OPS solution. I also notice, as others have said, that there seems to be a significant gap in the transparency and willingness to evaluate the three ongoing OPS projects, between the statements of the Minister of Transport on the one hand and those expressed by others representing the Government Parties, especially in this Chamber. After all, the representative of Torstein Rudihagen has too far complained that this government will stop the OPS projects. The main argument is that this is financed by expensive private borrowings. Those who are good at it in the financial industry reject such claims. That's just not right. There is – if any – a marginal difference in the borrowing costs of OPS projects and direct government funding. So that's a bad argument. But I hope that it is the Council of State that is winning, and that we get an open and liberal evaluation of the three OPS projects that have been released. One's over. The signal from all three is that there is a model that works very well, and we want it extended and used on much more projects. Then I will take up the proposal of the Party of Advancement. We will also take the opportunity in this case to point out that precisely by using a grip as a OPS solution, no matter what you call a child – OPS or a company or outsourcing from the regular government budget – you actually have a method of increasing the road effort and not least for treating investment as an investment and not as a cost. We want that method and that possibility further explored and examined, and we therefore propose that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1355	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1358	First, the representative from the Workers' Party, who was busy with what the previous government did and didn't do. We can take that discussion in the other forums. But let me say that the previous government did at least what she had promised both in the road sector and in the collective sector, and then we'll see if the sitting government does the same thing. And then we're going to have to take the details in a second. In the case of E136, this is a section that has several sections that are individually very important. We have the Rome valley from Åndalsnes to the Uppland border, which is a very important part of the export path both for parts of the Rome valley and for the most part of the Sunnmare, a road standard that those who know him know is far from being good enough for the requirements that are being imposed, and the amount of traffic that is here. The second is Tresfjordbrua, a bridge connection that will shorten the distance by 14 km, and there will be several million kilometres of track cut in over a year, as well as that the road around Tresfjorden, which is currently being used, is a traffic-hazardous road with many runs, a road that has to be done with anyway. The third is the gateway to Ålesund, the Lerstadwegen, which also screams for a renewal, getting an improvement, getting a completion. These three projects together, as Right sees it, are very good at OPS funding, and I think it's sad that we don't get a solution in that direction today in Stortinget. In a letter of 12 May, which the representative of Sortevik has already commented on, the Council of State says some things that I would like to comment on. Most of that letter is a list of the measures taken by the previous government, because it's right that a lot happens, we got a lot of effort on this route. What's happening in More and Romesdal in the area between Sogge Bru and the Horgheim site is very happy. Here, too, there are other parts, including: the dangerous Female Wing at Sea Hole, which has already been improved. So we've tried to take a share of this, and we added 660 million. kr for this distance. It's exactly the same thing that the bulk of the population supports us in and went with us. What's the other objection is that it's a sign that there's too little project, that Blackevik's representative was in, but also that there's a very long distance with a lot of different plots, and there might be something in it. I don't think it's conscious of the council to want the Stortinget, but in the letter she says it's 230 km from Ålesund to Uppland border. It's never been, almost the same way you're running. Governments are bombing 50 pst. on that length. It's today a distance of 163 km. So the 40-50 pst. On the top here, a well-known people, as some of us use to say, get off at least. Questions were asked whether this should be a OPS financing for the entire project or part thereof. The starting point was undoubtedly a whole project, a project of probably SEK 1.2 to 1.3 to 1.4 billion. What we have done to meet the objections that the Council of State has already had, was that we were in the process of modernising the proposal for whole or parts, because it is very important to make even more coherent on these sections than has been done so far, even though much has been done. So that's the resistance to OPS funding. Yes, there can be many theoretical objections to the idea of that model, but we've seen, among other things. That the Orkdal Road, which several of us have followed closely both in the phase it was built, and now afterwards, has worked absolutely glittering – cheaper, better, faster. We thought that other parts of the country should also be able to get involved in such a good not funding model, I don't want to call him that, but the organisation model for road construction in Norway. Governments and, not least, their people in the UK have gone very high in project finance. There shall be an alternative to OPS financing. But I have never been able to see if it is such that this will add extra funds, or if there is only a new way to try to see the whole project in context. In case that's the last thing, it's the same thing as the previous government did, because when we first started -- it's like a connection or something else -- we say we're running until we're done. So the question I want to challenge the state council in that particular area is, does this mean the advance or the introduction of other means? Or is it simply a fairly empty expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1381	I would like to commend the proposers for having self-confidence when they write in their comments: «These members are aware that the OPS model is in dispute.» I thought that after an election campaign meeting we had last year in Molde with representatives from Municipal Credit, OPS was put to death and, for the most part, buried as an idea to contribute something special to road development in More and Romesdal. Of course, this is based on the main content of the conclusion from Kommunalkredit: one time less road builds one when a person funds by OPS instead of using our own funds that we actually have. Then to the route in question. The valley of Rome is well under way, we know that. We have Tresfjordbrua, we have the driveway to Ålesund, which is lying there unsolved at the moment. We know that tolls have been central to both of these projects. I myself have been against tolls into Ålesund if one can't find local legitimacy, i.e. recognition, to use tolls. What has been done by the Right side, and not least by the Progress Party's side? It's actually those who stop both of these projects, because they're basically against tolls and aren't willing to engage in dialogue with local forces to figure out how to legitimize the use of tolls. There is a part of the solution: getting in dialogue with local people. We know that entering Ålesund there will also be sufficient traffic base to find such a solution, so that the route might be built faster. So the export path: Of course it's the export path, but we also know that when it concerns More and Romsdal, there are two export routes that will become future export paths, and on which there is too little investment. First, the railway, which I'm not going to spend a lot of time on. The next one is, of course, on the keel, we're going to have many, many more of our trailers on the keel. Of course, the gas-powered fast-going export boats must also be built on yards in More and Romesdal, since we are only in a health-home debate here. There are possibilities. The fact that we politicians haven't understood it, is really strange, when Møre and Romsdal's biggest locomotive say: I'm not a locomotive anymore, I'm a carrier of containers, how I get these containers to the continent, I don't put so much into it, but we have to put in place what's going on with fast-moving boats, and then we get the trailers off the roads. Waagan says straight out: I run to Oslo, but not a meter anymore. Then we know what kind of competition the trailers and our transport companies operate under. Boating is also the most important way of transport other than Møre and Romsdal for the future. So once again, we can think about new paths. There's a coincidence that there's some stuff in More and Rome's valley over the weekend. I assume that the proposers are in dialogue with their membership groups if one is willing to maybe look at NTP repriorities. We can't imagine that we're going to have the county council in More and Romesdal sit on the side of this process. They should definitely be with and have a hand on this steering wheel. So there should be a central part of this debate, and it should also be in the county assembly. It has to be legitimized there, no matter what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1399	On the route E136 between Dombås and Ålesund, a State investment framework of 660 million has been proposed. kr for the period 2006-2015. In the 2006-2009 action programme, it is a priority to complete the deployment of E136 on the Horgheimsundet-Zoge bridge section. The project is scheduled to be opened for traffic at the turn of the year 2006/2007. In addition, it is planned to start the construction of the Monge-Marstein route in 2009. During the last part of the 10-year period, it was also considered appropriate to continue the construction of a new route to Ålesund from Spjelkavik on the Breivika-Lerstad route. This project will not be completed within the 10-year period of government funding if the Flatmark-Monge-Marstein sections are to be developed in a coherent manner, as is the case in the More and Romesdal districts. The costs of the Breivika-Lerstad project are uncertain and the planned work for the new option is too short. Prioritisation of new entry years for Ålesund must therefore be a theme for the revision of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019. For the purpose of an OPS project, an OPS company shall have a holistic task of projecting, building and financing a road project, then having a long-term responsibility including operation and maintenance of the route. In the previous OPS projects, this operating period is set to 25 years. Any OPS project should be of a certain size. The Road Directorate believes that the investment should be at least 750 million. kr. Within such a framework, a system should also ensure that the route of the existing route to be included in the OPS project is upgraded in order to maintain it for at least 25 years because it is not favourable to return with new investment projects on a route under the responsibility of a OPS company under a OPS contract. I'm sorry if I've been hurt to extend the E136 Ålesund – Oppland border in my letter to the committee. But the investment projects that have so far been proposed and prioritised are in all proportion on different parts of this route. In order to establish an OPS project, a specific remedial project for a limited distance of E136 may need to be defined. This will change the priorities ahead and will therefore have to be part of the priority process of the next national transport plan. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the setting of the landfill protocol for the OPS test project E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand, where the government part, etc. stated that they are skeptical of the use of OPS as a financing method. I also indicate that the Bondevik administration decided that an evaluation would be carried out before considering the additional use of the OPS model. I note that there are some people who have changed their mind about it today. I stress that we are now conducting three pilot projects in accordance with a OPS model. The contract for the third and last of these shall be concluded now in June. After this, an evaluation of the scheme will be carried out, in which benefits and disadvantages will be assessed against each other. I believe that the three pilot projects will provide a good basis for drawing conclusions on the continuation of the OPS model and will await the outcome of the evaluation before I may recommend new projects following the OPS model. But it's not like one can get the impression that an inner OPS model almost gets a free project. Today, we have commitments to a future action plan of 600 million. kr resulting from the OPS projects to be completed now. So you have to bring in the whole picture that this of course creates bonds. Another thing worth mentioning is that in an OPS project is the private company to build and maintain. One has to expect that private companies will also calculate a profit, and it is doubtful whether they will get better loan arrangements than the state itself can get on the market. So there are several reasons why the government party is skeptical about the OPS model, but as the government council responsible, it is important to me that we carry out the evaluation that the Stortinget has told us to do, and on that basis we take a position on the future of the OPS model.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1424	I am pleased that the Council of State now repeated what she has said in the letter, that there should be an open evaluation of the three pilot projects. So this government, as expressed by some teams, especially in the Working Party's group in this room, does not stop the OPS projects until an evaluation has actually been carried out. That's good to hear. So I have a specific question: does the Council of State see that by organising road construction outside the framework of the ordinary state budgets, i.e. in companies, whether it is called OPS, with private items, or in purely state-owned companies that only operate road construction, you can actually get a distinction in the treatment of investment projects and current expenditure on the basis of the cash principle in the state budget? Getting such a distinction is a goal this government has set itself. Does the Council see that this is actually one of several ways to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1431	Yes, this is of course one of several ways of separating operations and investment. You can also do that without going to the step of forming a company. The government discusses a possible separation between operation and investment, and that debate will come back to us at a later date. But considering it is of course a possibility. Of course, one can also have state or private companies without making such a change in budgeting methodology. That's exactly what the previous government has done. One has had a OPS carrier. No distinction has been made between the state budget for operations and investment and, therefore, the assessment of investment funds in a more long-term manner than the means of operating for regular consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1438	I am pleased with the position of the Council of State in this matter and that she is also clear in her presentation from the pulpit. Unfortunately, it cannot be said of all the representatives of the majority parties here today. The husband of the innocency that was heard in some posts should be looked for a long time. It is not often we hear from this pulpit. I want to bring forward a relationship that has not been mentioned, and this is with project funding compared to allocation year after year. In the case of toll projects other than OPS projects, this is in reality the same as in the case of toll companies which advance toll companies every year until the project is paid. So there's not much to pick up. I have a specific question to the Council of State: the OPS Directive will also apply to Norway. Is the Ministry active in relation to the work on this directive currently being carried out by the Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1447	Firstly, when it comes to project financing, there is also something that the Government is discussing, and we will come back to an assessment of it in next year's budget. In the case of the OPS Directive, work is ongoing. And similar to other EU-related issues, the government wants to have an offensive attitude to it. Last night, my State Secretary was in Luxembourg to meet the Ministers for Transport from the Nordic countries. The councils should have been there, but because of things in the hall today I am of course here! There was a discussion of an ongoing issue and directive. We have a very good relationship with the Nordic ministers and with the system otherwise, and we also want to follow this up in an offensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1454	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1464	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1476	There are government parties behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1492	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 2, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Group of the Proposal No. Four, from the Right and the Left, was converted into a transmission proposal during the debate. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government:1. Return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a proposal for a new tariff system in the national road transport service where no cost is passed on to commercial transport.2. Work to further develop the scope of user payment with Autopass, including on ferry payments.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size approves the proposal submitted for the construction of the Fatlaberg breed protection project on rv. 55 in Leikanger and Sogndal municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane. The size assumes that the project is carried out according to current plans and with start-up as planned, but based on full government funding. The Storting asks for a separate case to be submitted to the Stortinget."
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1536	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to limit the collection of Sokn in addition to 1 March 2006, inter alia by considering:1. To transfer interest-free loans on Rennfast 16.7 million. Finnfast $2.50. The fact that operating and maintenance costs on the road network are not to be financed during the amortisation period by state and local government holiday relief funds but are financed from the ordinary budget.3. As a general rule, use is made of the traffic base recommended by the Directorate of Roads.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1561	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to refer a matter of its own on a trial plan with free national road ferries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1587	The President assumes that the Advance Party is opposed. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1604	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1629	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a plan to address the challenge on the county road network.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. – It is confirmed. This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1655	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1680	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the organisation of the development and operation of the whole or part of the route E136 Ålesund-Upland border as a tollless OPS project.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09.ana.ud1753e1709	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
