ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e75	An application for sick leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Saera Khan from 14 December onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Khalid Mahmood, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e93	Khalid Mahmood is present and will take his seat. The representative, Kari Lise Holmberg, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e98	On behalf of the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Gunnar Gundersen, Bent Höie and myself, I would like to make proposals on stricter requirements for conditions of family reunification and establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e117	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e128	The red-green government and the majority of the population are pursuing a very offensive policy to strengthen our common well-being. We are impatient, impatient because the children need kindergarten or an optimal school offer now, more than promises of improvement in the long term. The caregivers need help now, more than in the long term. At that time, those who are to provide the services and security locally, the municipalities, have to get more money to do the tasks now. We really do. The growth in the current year's free income is DKK 9.5 billion. There is a total real growth of SEK 11.6 billion in the municipal sector. This represents the strongest income growth of 15 years. In the budgetary position currently under consideration, priority will continue to be given to the local economy, in the form of free incomes and earmarked grants, in particular, linked to the development of kindergartens. Total growth in the total income of the municipal sector for 2006 and 2007 amounts to DKr 18 billion, of which DKr 13 billion is free income. It provides better school and care — and more well-being in several areas. More money is also less underbalanced. Local authorities need more money than plans – plans to correct the deficit in the long term. I think the municipalities are carrying this impatience from our side. Each additional tax crown keeps the municipalities, as well as the strong growth we promised in the Soria Moria declaration and delivered. We have a responsibility to provide the best possible service in all Norwegian municipalities. It's really about justice. We must have that in mind when considering how best to distribute the money to the local government sector. The issue of corporate tax as a municipal tax shall also be assessed by the policy sample which is now to carry out a completely necessary review of the income system. The government will then present its proposal for changes in the municipal proposition in spring 2008. Pending this work, we support the Government in reducing the percentage municipal share of corporation tax, so that the krone amount is ‘freed’ at the current level. If we don't do such a thing, much of next year's growth in free income will come in the form of corporate tax. It could have had an adverse effect on the precise distribution of the municipalities between them and affected the level of welfare differently. Of course, good industrial development is to be achieved. It certainly does. However, Norwegian municipalities consist of communities and cities with quite different assumptions in order to obtain income in this way. That is something we need to bring with us when we develop the central policy in this area. Kommune-Norway has a very central role in integration work. A lot of good work is also done voluntarily. But we can and must do more. The red-green government is offensive and impatient in this area as well. It is clearly expressed through the presentation of the Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion and also in the Action Plan on Poverty. More will be said about this from our side later in this debate. Many organisations, some individual municipalities with special challenges, the Sameting and others used the opportunity to attend the Committee hearings. Several of them will be able to see that they have been consulted through this budgetary position. Others have expressed views and input that it is useful for the Committee to take forward. Electric school in Engerdal is credited with a grant of NOK 500000 in operating aid. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, are in favour of this allocation in order to preserve and revitalise the Southern Sami culture and language. The same majority also supports the provision of 250000 kroner to secure forest Finnish culture. The three government parties, plus the Christian People's Party and the Left, ensure that the Norwegian Federation receives an operating grant of 1.3 million. kr. The good association is an important partner for getting good living environments, and they have among other things. operational responsibility for between 10000 and 15000 playgrounds in this country. In the field of integration too, there have been changes, with an increase of 1.5 million across-the-board organisations carrying out integration work. kr. A completely different issue, where all parties – I kept saying: again – except the Progress Party is standing together, concerns the funding mechanism related to training in private health institutions. The number of such institutions in the individual counties varies greatly. The Government is therefore asked to review this conversion so that the financial transfers to each county reflect the actual costs incurred by each county. This shall apply for 2007. The House Bank has also, of course, been consulted in the Committee. The Committee majority emphasises the role of the House Bank as a general bank for housing, rehabilitation and establishment. The Right Party and the Advance Party disagree on this. But for us who make up the majority, this is an important signal. We want housing policy to have a broad perspective and that the Husbank's instruments should support this. The Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services, from which we will call it from now on, occupies many. It is about offering many people and about a lot of money for many municipalities. The government is working on this, and this work must be prioritised so that changes in the scheme can be promoted in the municipal bill of spring. It is, if I may say so, almost touching to experience how strongly the former government parties – and the support party from that time, the Progress Party – are now committed to this top funding scheme. In the current year’s budget, the Bondevik Government’s proposals and levels are applicable. One of the last government did was cut about 270 million. kr, by reducing the country’s contribution beyond the entry point by 10 pst. With the continued Bondevik government, we had the same system and the same level, but we had far from having the free revenues that the local government now has. Perhaps this involvement is a sign that the former government parties see that current government probably has greater potential in terms of action and willingness to do something about it. We can live with that. With regard to regional and district policies, we have just received a separate notification on this subject. We are now following up with money to achieve the political objectives. In terms of regional and regional policy instruments, we're adding a total of 153.5 million. kr – an increase of 10 pst. So the total amount is going to be $12 billion. Here too, the Progress Party delivers what one can expect from there in district policy. They're going to cut by 1 130 million. kr for the same purpose. Moreover, it is positive to note that the Christian People's Party and the Left are associated with the government fraction in all the notes in this part of the budget position. The notification of the future regions, submitted on Friday, involves a significant transfer of tasks to the regional level. This is important in the context of regional policy. In addition, national governments are strengthened and new opportunities for proper tailoring of development work are provided regionally. The government assumes that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two people: Samer and Nordmann. Samemen is an indigenous people who have a call for special cultural protection under international law. In the Government’s draft government budget, appropriations increased by 49 million. kr. It's added 5 million. kr as a result of the integration of Tysfjord municipality in the Nordic region into the Sami language area. This is the first municipality from the Lulesamian region to be integrated into the Sami language area. That's also going to be 20 million. to secure funds for the East Sami Museum in Neiden and further planning of exhibitions in 2007. The Eastern Sami Museum is a millennial site, and I am glad that the money has finally been found to start this work. This is important for Eastern Sami culture. We have many other examples that show that we are supporting active common policies. In the field of culture, too, important appropriations have been made. The budget setting is, of course, a lot about money. But without well-motivated employees, we do not achieve our welfare policy objectives. There is therefore every reason to enjoy the agreement concluded between the Government and the employee organisations on quality development in the local government sector. We are concerned that, in the municipal sector, yes, throughout the public sector, we should include more apprentices. We will also strengthen efforts to increase ethnic diversity and the recruitment of people with disabilities in the public sector. In this area too, we will be impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e205	The representative is former rapporteur and municipal politicians. He has been part of the challenges facing municipalities, including: the major challenges they face from resource-demanding users and high levels of maintenance in municipalities, i.e. large delays in many areas. Does the representative see that the funding system we have today does not guarantee equivalent provision in the municipalities, does it not guarantee the same quality in the municipalities and does it not ensure financial predictability in the municipalities? What does the representative and the Labour Party want to do with these challenges in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e214	I very much agree that it is important, as I mentioned in the introduction, that we get a proper review of the income system. To this end, a cross-political sample is now being set up to submit a proposal by September next year. Then, on the basis of that, the Ministry will take this up for discussion in the Government and, as I was at the moment, will present proposals for changes in the municipal bill for 2008. In particular, we have pointed out in the mandate that it is necessary to look at the need for self-compensation schemes for municipalities with high population growth and for municipalities with strong population decline. We're going to review this from A to Å, and it's going to be a fairer system – that's what it's meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e219	The representative was not very long into the regional reform in his speech — perhaps not so strange, for some feel that the reform is hanging in a thin thread. However, Minister of State Åslaug Haga is certain in his case: she will break the dream of a community merger between the Party of Advancement and the Right. In the Right Program, it says among other things: the following concerning community mergers: ‘Freedom and local initiatives should remain the cornerstone of the changed municipal structure’.» This is a long way to go as in the Workers' Party's own programme, which reads: ‘The working party considers that changes to the current municipal classification are necessary in order to ensure functional and sustainable municipalities.’ Furthermore, it is said that structural changes should primarily be voluntary for municipalities. Has the municipal minister now also become the dream breaker of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e238	We are working very well with the Minister of State, and I can assure you that. We also have nothing against community mergers. In many cases it will be directly appropriate, but it will be done on a voluntary basis. What the right is actually doing is they're walking around with ‘compulsory thoughts’. They're actually willing, I think, to go in to force, because that's the only way to get the municipalities bigger. Norwegian municipalities generally do not want to merge, except a few exceptions. So the puzzle that the Right is going to put in that context, it becomes quite demanding, because there will be many rapporteurs who have very much of the population behind them, and keep in touch. If you want to use force, say it! Either that, or the option is to transfer much more power to state level, i.e. to state authorities. I wasn't aware of that was good right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e247	The representative, Mr Hagebakken, said in his speech that the recent regional communication will be important in the development of rural policy. As far as we can see, the Communication does not conclude with regard to the scope of tasks, and my question to the Hagebakken is: Will the Government Parties in the forthcoming review of the Communication conclude on the scope of tasks, and transfer significant tasks from state to regional level, so that an active district policy can be pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e254	Yes, of course, it is intended that the Storting should conclude here as a basis also for the matter presented by the Government in spring 2008, on the breakdown. Moreover, I have registered, to my great satisfaction, that the Christian People's Party is a warm supporter of our need to have a regional popular level. This is a good starting point for us to be able to cooperate well in the discussion of tasks as well. I would also like to invite all the other parties in Stortinget who want to have a word in the team, to dialogue on this very important matter for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e263	The cord shift is over. Before we move on to the list of speakers, the President will take up a point under the formalia that was ignored at the opening of the meeting, namely that Hans Olav Syversen, who has been licensed, has once again taken up his seat. It's a great pleasure to see the Seven again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e269	The municipalities, Municipality-Norway, are the levels that produce the most basic, the most close and important services to the population out there in the whole country. It is then important to have a predictable framework and predictable financing of precisely those services. The policy of the Progress Party will facilitate precisely that predictability. Through our general economic policy, we will create greater growth, more predictability and more room for action for the municipalities. But so important is that through our policies we want to secure the individual user, the individual, really good, predictable financing of the individual service. We want primarily a piece of price financing for what is today municipal basic welfare services, whether we are talking about care for the elderly, primary schools, health or social services. The reason why we do it – and I know that this is something that we debate in committee contexts in many contexts – is that we want an equivalent offer. We want all citizens to have the same qualitative services, no matter where they live in the country. We want people to know that the hospital or school place they receive does not depend on varying transfers from one country to another, which can change a lot from one year to another. Unfortunately, the majority in this Chamber will not go so far as to address the good solutions outlined by the Progress Party with its unit-price financing. But until we get it in place, the Progress Party in the current budget is in charge of earmarking larger parts of the transfers to the municipalities. We do that by direct earmarking NOK 2 billion for the care of the elderly, direct earmarking of SEK 600 million. DKK to primary school and 200 million. kr to secondary school. At the same time, we want to provide for predictability in the state transfers to the municipalities, so that the municipalities can actually relate to the four years they plan for in their business plan. It is interesting to note that, in the context of the treatment of regional and regional policies, the Progress Party is alone, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to wish for a multi-annual and transparent escalation plan of funding in the municipal sector. Here, therefore, the Government raises a year-to-year management of the funding in the municipalities, and thus does not create the predictability of the municipalities themselves. We can see that. On every occasion when we have these discussions, you come up with examples, all the good examples, all the good visions of what will happen when the red-greens now take over the rudder. I want to mention some examples -- that's kind of interesting. The Ringy municipality is in a situation where they initially had to sit down and cut almost 10 pst. of the budget. 10 pst. of the budget is a rather hopeless starting point. There might be a lot of reasons for that. There is probably inefficiency and opportunities to better control the Ringerike municipality. But the most important thing for Ring Kingdom, as it is for other municipalities, is that you have predictability of what you are actually doing, and that you can plan for the long term in relation to the financial plan and services you are going to produce. In the budget debate last year, the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum from the Central Party used my home municipality, Harstad, as an example of – I kept saying – the new leaders coming from the Government. It is true that the municipality of Harstad, my municipality of residence, experienced problems with the local economy in the past, there were difficulties in financing the services. There are many good reasons why it's been like this. But the situation has not changed at all since the red-green took over. In that municipality, over 60 million were missing. In order to balance the budget. The solution is, as it is in many other municipalities, to put in what I would call a procurator trick to get the math to go up. In order for the municipality of Harstad to get its account to go up — and they are dealing with the budget today — they base their interest rate reduction, deferral of repayment of loans and extended duration of loans. It's a red-green ruled municipality, which cheered on the day the government took over. Now reality has acquired the municipality of Harstad, as it has done with so many other municipalities, unfortunately. On the immigration side, the Progress Party is setting up a policy in which we will dramatically reduce immigration to Norway. It concerns asylum immigration and the reception of quota refugees, but it is primarily about family immigration, which is today the major challenge on the immigration side. What's interesting here is that while we're doing it, we're doing some cuts on the immigration and integration side, but it's not close to the massive savings we're going to have by reducing immigration to Norway. This has been tried – quite unfairly – by the Workers' Party as if we were cynical cutters on integration. Of course, that's not right. The Progress Party establishes a policy where we actually have a lot of money available per. head – per head – to integrate, and that's what you have to look at when you look at our policies: the balance between the costs on the one hand and immigration on the other. When we even get such accusations as that the policy of the Progress Party will lead to French conditions, it is allowed to respond. Of course, that's not right. With our policies, if it had been laid down all the way as long as we have warned of the challenges of immigration and integration, Norway had found itself in a completely different situation. It is precisely the policy of the Workers' Party, which has had most of the responsibility over the last 20-30 years, which unfortunately, if new measures are not introduced, will lead to a situation in which we are creating just a social sub-class. The integration challenges we see are increasingly facing today as a problem. The Labour Party, with its policies, makes up for a system where clients are created, where passive recipients of public benefits are created, instead of facilitating people’s efforts to live off their own income and create a basis for their own lives, and thus have a greater degree of social mobility. It is the Labour Party's policy that has placed us in the situation that very, very many immigrants from non-Western countries unfortunately are passive beneficiaries of benefits instead of being productive members of society today. It's not the fault of the immigrants themselves, but it's the social-democratic thinking, the social-democratic construction of society, where you look at individuals as weak individuals, in weak groups, instead of taking man seriously and making demands on the individual. Then we would have succeeded. The places in the world where demands are made on people, where individual people have to take greater responsibility for their own situation, there is also greater social mobility and more successful integration. It's time for the Workers' Party to take it over. Because if today's policy is also the recipe for the future, I'm afraid we'll just get into a situation where we get a social subclass and French state in Norway. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party, both those that we are alone in, and those that we are together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e295	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e300	Amundsen made it a point that unit price financing is more predictable than a framework transfer to municipalities. I expect that in the future too, the Stortinget will determine in the annual budgets what the prices should be, so I can't quite see what makes it more predictable if the Stortinget decides a price instead of adopting a framework for the municipalities. But that wasn't my main point. What I thought about challenging Amundsen is the idea behind price financing. This is perhaps the most extreme form of centralism that we know about. Without comparison, we know of some form of centralism in some Eastern European countries, and this may well tend towards the same thing, namely that the Stortinget will establish an exact framework, how much each person costs, and then the municipalities will be transferred an amount determined by a cost factor. Does Amundsen agree that this is a form of centralism? Whether it is democratic, I do not know, but at least it is a form of centralism that is reasonably extreme and that we have not seen in countries other than the old Eastern European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e305	That, of course, is the true opposite of centralism. It is a predictable system in which individual municipalities know that they have funding in the case of health care facilities, in the case of schools operated by the municipality, and in the case of social and health services. That's what's fundamental here, because these services have to be accessible and equal to all people. It is still the municipalities that are most likely to provide those services, but it is about predictability in relation to knowing that you get the money you need to finance the basic services. There is nothing very different from what it is today, just that today there are statistical models in the ministry, which are not at all in contact with reality, which form the basis for the calculation, and it is not, as in our system, the real need for services that automatically trigger money from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e310	Voluntary organisations carry out important work to integrate and include immigrants in Norway. Most of this work is done on a hard basis, but they get a few million to have some employees, and to have special training in this field. The Christian People's Party believes that this is well spent money. One gets a lot of effort for this money, and a lot of hard work for a good job. They are engaged in homework, Norwegian training and various social events for this group. If the Progress Party believes that it is important for immigrants to learn Norwegian, to be integrated into society, why do they take all day long and iron out any support for non-governmental organisations doing this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e315	I have to say that I largely share the views of the representative Bjørg Tørresdal, that non-governmental organisations are doing an important job. In fact, voluntary organisations are the best people to achieve a high level of integration per year. heads, and this is the absolute way to go in terms of integration, also in the future. However, the single draft amendment to the state budget to which the representative Tørresdal refers relates to a budget entry specifically for migrant organisations as such, where we have said that we do not want special treatment. We take seriously that we do not discriminate against people, we should not have special grants, special schemes, to so-called immigrant organisations. But at the same time, we say that the kind of organisations that do good integration work should have room for transfers through other government budget items. It is also specifically stated in our alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e320	It's interesting to hear Amundsen's representative talk about volunteering. He was also opposed to giving money to the Norwegian Federation of Wellbeing – 1.3 million. kr. But it goes into the pattern in relation to the big state party the Progress Party is becoming, with the designation, piece-price financing, all possible mechanisms for state control. And today it reached new heights in the Evening Post. I didn't believe my own eyes when I saw that the representative was in charge of state inspectors in the country's churches to check if someone had positions that were consistent with the state's opinion. I would like to be confirmed or cancelled by the representative Amundsen that he actually answered what is going on in the evening post today, that one was opened up in order to have something similar to what he called fake inspectors in the country's congregations, and that the State Party's Progress Party should also enter the country's churches and control their attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e325	The way in which it is presented here by the representative, Mr Vedum, is, of course, not correct. We want, quite rightly, that the state should actually be able to make some demands when granting grants to religious organizations. It's not unreasonable at all. Then it's up to the individual religious organization to choose whether to receive government grants or not. But that's not how the representative tries to represent it, that this has to do with any state-wide meaning, because what we want to do is to promote equality, promote democracy. We want to promote equivalency in immigrant environments, and then we need to be able to do it in a good way, where we are actually demanding transparency, an overview of what is going on, so that we can lift it up and have a public debate about it in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e333	Over the course of a week you can see that everyone depends on the municipality in which you live, whether you are poor or rich, young or old, lonely or in a large family. Everyone has a garbage can to empty, children going to kindergarten or school, a road to break, or parents in need of home care. Therefore, no one can believe that the municipality is irrelevant. Therefore, the income and ability of municipalities to use the money sensibly is not irrelevant for anyone in Norway. But what is important for the income of municipalities? Yes, there are tax receipts from residents and businesses. If you are doing well in Norway, you are also doing well in Kommune-Norway. If we look at the growth of municipal income in the last few years, 2/3 of it has come as a result of increased tax revenue. Technical estimation, which presented its autumn report on Monday this week, shows that this growth started in 2004. They indicate that this year’s growth was well achieved in 2004 and 2005, so that ‘economic freedom has been significantly improved and the need for operational adaptations is reduced’, as they state. This shows that there are two myths that have been rejected – the first is that the previous government was driving the city hallucinations. The other myth that has been refuted is that there is a contrast between tax relief and welfare. On the contrary. The tax relief of the previous government on the creation of jobs is the basis for most of the income growth of municipalities in recent years. If we look at the various parties' proposals for financial arrangements for Kommune-Norway in 2007, there are slight differences in the overall level. There is, however, a difference in the way the money is distributed, and there is a difference in the ability to think that welfare will also be financed in the future. The right-hand alternative budget is characterized by the fact that we believe that one should use good times to sow, in order to reap in the future. The ability of municipalities to care and improve schools, care for the elderly and all the other services depends on ensuring that community cakes are increasingly baked. That is why the Right's alternative budget, in which we are spending on research, education, lower interest rates, better access to labour and better infrastructure, is a budget that invests in the welfare of the future. We also believe that municipalities should be rewarded when they facilitate the creation and development of new jobs. Therefore, together with the other non-socialist parties, we propose that municipalities retain more of the corporate tax. The right also proposes a higher taxpayer than the government. This means that tax growth will be better during 2007 than envisaged in the State budget, so municipalities will retain a larger share of our budget than with the government's plans. On Friday, the government presented a awaited necrologer of the county council. Rarely must a longer search for positive reactions when a government presents a big-mouth message that concerns such a wide-ranging topic. Even the most carved red-green country pendants could not hide their dissatisfaction. This is the story of the parties that asked for the majority of the people to do as they had promised, but they didn't. In the run-up to the 2005 elections, all parties agreed that today’s county municipality did not have enough tasks or legitimacy to defend its right to exist — or as the municipal and regional minister says: the county council is confused. There was, however, disagreement as to what was to be the answer to the slowly but secure death of the county council. Through strenuous work in the parties and in the Communes' Central Association, state politicians were able to create a majority because the answer was to move the dead county municipalities into a higher sphere – regions. They were to be entrusted with extensive State tasks and increased geographical size. Two strong forces would drive such a reform – firstly, the growing frustration of state regional bureaucracy, and secondly, the desire of all parts of the country to be able to measure forces with Oslo and the nation state. Through this rhetoric, a majority was created for a still third popularly elected level of government in all parties except the Right and the Advance Party. The central government of the communes started a comprehensive investigation work, one of which, in the end, was almost left with the fact that the main task of the nation state was police and defence. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the objective of new regions was written in, and the enthusiasm was great. Now the government has been working on the reform for over a year. It's been troubling through the task and the different heart things of the lots. The conclusion is obvious: all government councils are to move tasks to the regions, just not in their own area. So why should the Central Party take the burden of joining forces, when the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left will not give them bigger problems? No, then it's better to keep the county. So now we've got a big message that contains a few adjustments to the problems, crumbs to the states, and those who want to merge or make border adjustments, can, if they want, but it's strictly not necessary. Everyone agreed that the county council's time was over. Now the region's followers have been tried. They have a majority and can do what they want, but they don't get it. Then it is time to start working on the second option, a slimmer and spreader public sector, with only two levels – state and municipality. Norway is an important country within our niches. We are e.g. rich in natural resources and energy. In the political debate, there is a lot of discussion about how to make the best use of the fact that we have advantages such as energy nation, shipping nation, peace nation and fishing nation. Because we are and will be a small country that will never be able to compete because we are the cheapest. So we have to be the best in those areas where we have natural assumptions and tradition for it. As a Northman, I think it's almost impossible to meet another Northman without a relatively quick find out that one has several common acquaintances. We live in a small country, where most people know someone who knows the Prime Minister, or Trond Giske for that matter. Although the distances are large, the population is the size of a capital city in many other European countries. Small businesses are often able to take advantage of their small size, in competition with larger groups. Small enterprises are often more flexible, have lower administrative costs and short decision-making processes. There should also be a strategy for Norway — a small country that is flexible, does not need much bureaucracy and has a short distance from problem to decision. Unfortunately, it's not like that, and it looks like it's just going to get worse. We've organized our country as if we were ten times more than we are. Of course, the most obvious thing is that we have three levels of government – municipality, state and state. It's completely unnecessary. Either it's a local problem, and then it's best solved by the municipality, or it's national, and then it can be solved by the state. Moreover, many decisions do not need to be taken by the State or the municipality, because the decisions are made best where they belong: the individual to whom the decision applies. The county councils cost us today almost 2 billion kroner before they start solving a single problem. It would have been better to spend that money on care and school. We've organized our health system the same way. We have a national health policy and we need to have an equivalent health service for all our citizens. What are we going to do with regional health businesses? Either the decision can be made at the hospital facing the challenge, or there is a national health policy issue, and then it belongs in this room or in the government. Today we experience that the hospitals in Haugesund and Stavanger operate effectively, but they risk that the benefits for this go to Bergen. The government's regional message should have been put into a drawer once and for all, and we should have thrown the key. We should now stop and discuss how to take advantage of the fact that we are a small country. More bureaucracy creates new rules and less flexibility. The right will therefore bring the county council and the regional health establishments down. We want to give more power to the individual citizen, to the individual municipality and to the individual hospital. We will work for a comprehensive democracy reform as a clear alternative to the government's bureaucracy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e373	I'm occupied with democracy, and especially local democracy. The 2007 draft budget of the Progress Party is based on the assumption by the State of basic welfare services, such as school and nursing homes, and on the introduction of unit-price financing. I myself have been present during several debates and heard representatives from the Right talk about local democracy and the value of self-government, recently also in the intervention of the representative in relation to the regional reform. My question is therefore: What does the Right really mean that Kommune-Norway is going to run local self-government, if they go along with the Progress Party on a single-price financing? What, then, is the real confidence of the Right in local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e380	My starting point – The Right Programme – is that there is no doubt that the Right will leave more decisions and free up funds to the municipalities than is the government’s intention. Then I record that even in the Progress Party there is a development in this area, as they get more and more local politicians. Among other things, Mr Birkedal, who is the rapporteur candidate for the Progress Party in Stavanger, said in Rogaland's newspaper that they have a programme process and that the Progress Party is rethinking this area. As he says, there are local politicians in the Progress Party as well. I think there's going to be changes in that area. But the most important thing is that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree to shut down the county municipality and transfer the tasks to the municipalities. We are e.g. agree that municipalities should be allowed to decide concession cases in the case of small-scale power. We agree to delegate many tasks from the county to the municipalities. And we also agree to slim the County considerably, to be only a control body. The municipalities will have considerable power with such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e389	I thought I would follow up on the previous line exchange. Some of us at least perceive parts of the Right as still conservative. Some of us also feel a certain historical relationship with this part of the Right. I want to challenge the representative on the Right's approach to the Progress Party. In the evening post today there is a notice about congregations and Norwegian languages. Minority communities shall use Norwegian language unless State aid is taken from them. We have heard from the representative of Amundsen today, about cuts to immigrants, and that we should not have very many of those in need of protection, to Norway. This is the policy of the Progress Party towards minorities – and I am talking about minorities in general. My question to the Right, which wants to approach the Progress Party, is: do you feel that it is pleasant, and do you feel that you have any relationship with the Advance Party on these important, fundamental issues of human dignity?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e400	Everyone sees that there is a significant difference between the Right and the Advance Party on some of these questions. With regard to the concrete look-up in the Evening Post today, the Right calls for what the Stortinget has repeatedly asked for, namely that the Government initiates a work for imams coming to Norway to learn Norwegian and Norwegian social knowledge. It would be an important step for imams to be more likely to be spiritual guides to a congregation of people living in Norway. It will be a completely necessary grip. To demand that all religious practices in this country be conducted in Norwegian is, in my view, a completely unnecessary proposal, and a proposal that I would call purely socialism. I know there's a lot of strange things being said in churches, probably in Muslim churches, but I, who's from the West, know that there's a lot of strange things being said in other churches too, in Norwegian. So I don't think that demanding a Norwegian speaker would be better that particular situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e409	I heard that in his reply, the representative Höie now defined the policy of the Progress Party as pure socialism, and I could not really agree more – at least it is a purely state party. Is the representative Höie comfortable with the right now trying to approach a party that wants a differentiated price, ringing, that shows distrust of the local mind on a case-by-case basis because of belief in the state power, and that is now actively taking the order to have state controllers à la tipper inspectors, as it is called in the newspaper, into local congregations around the country? Is this consistent with Right ideology and thinking? Is it for the Right to approach a party that has such great faith in the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e414	I believe that a representative of today's government parties, who opted for a majority government to create peace and order and end customs and vases, should have been a little more humble in the approach to the issue of cooperation between parties that have different policies. We now have almost two years of experience with a government that has a majority, where there has been nothing else except root and customs from day one, and where the disagreement has arisen on a case-by-case basis. The court's national meeting has said that a desire for cooperation between the non-socialist parties, and that also involves the Christian People's Party and the Left. Not only has Højre's national meeting said that, but the country's polls have shown for over a year that it is a desire in the Norwegian people to have a majority of these parties. It was just to be lacking that the right-wing party did not have the ambition that this majority should express itself in a governing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e424	I noticed that a reply was requested before I started the article, and that is interesting. I'll start with a confession. I have my roots in the Western Pietist Christianity tradition, so I know a good deal about the place of the confession in the preaching. The confession is that I had not understood the seriousness of the situation in which Norwegian municipalities had come after four years of starvation, initiated by the previous government. To the extent that some try to present it as if it were malicious and negative municipal politicians who cut budgets to hit the population, they have misunderstood. It was not a demonstration policy that led to cuts in education, health and care around Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian county municipalities. There was simply a lack of resources. In the budget for this year there has been a growth in the local government sector of almost 10 billion kroner, and this was absolutely necessary. We see that the reduction of welfare services in Norwegian municipalities has stopped and has been reversed. There has been more money for education, and there have been more hands in the care sector. With the budget we are discussing today, the growth rate for Norwegian municipalities continues, and there are nearly 7 billion more in 2007 than it is this year. This will mean that there will be more money for school. I feel sure that eventually we'll see that there will be considerably more teachers, there will be fewer students per. Teacher, and that's the key to success with customized training, and the key to making our school, which is basically a good school, even better. We have a housing market that is out of balance. The price increase of dwellings has been formidable. This is a consequence of the deregulation, and not least of the fact that the role of the House Bank has been changed and weakened. The share of the homeless has remained unchanged, there are several thousand people who are homeless in this country. The proportion of people in need of housing has increased. It is unworthy that people stand without housing. So the next big thing is, once we get the local economy in place, to do something about housing policy and the housing market. The house bank must be repatriated and take greater responsibility for the overall housing structure in this country. There are not so many ways to get control of the price growth of dwellings. What we need to achieve is a greater balance between supply and demand, and there the House Bank, which must take greater responsibility for the overall construction of housing, must be involved in creating this balance. We also need to install several rental homes at a price that can be used by the homeless and those with the lowest income. When rehabilitating dwellings, we need to be able to establish life-cycle standards, such as building lifts in existing dwellings. This must and must be an important challenge for the House Bank, a new and modernised home bank that is then able to take on major tasks. The county council as a regional development actor is strengthened, with an increase in the appropriations for regional development. This points forward towards a strengthened regional level. The power investigation, a comprehensive research-based investigation, went on for years. It concluded that there has been depoliticisation in Norway for the last 10–15 years. As the power investigation underlines, the decisions have been moved from political bodies to the market and to international bodies, and we have had fewer political decisions by what is defined as legalisation. This is a description of a political development in Norway, and that is what we need to take on board. It is this perspective that we must have with us when we are discussing regional reform in the future. What must be the goal is to politicise Norway, and to take seriously what researchers say about depoliticisation in this country. And then it must be important for us to politicise Norway again, and democratize Norway again, to move the decisions back to politically elected bodies. It is in that perspective that we must see the regional reform. It is in this context that we must be able to see that this is what we should think about when we are going to organise and establish a level of political decision-making that is able to take over the decisions that are currently outside the political system, in the market and elsewhere. It is the perspective that must be underpinned by the continuation of the debate on regional reform – in terms of tasks and, above all, in terms of breakdown. Then it becomes too small to talk about costs, that this will cost a few extra dollars, etc., etc. This is, of course, a whole picture of the power investigation and democratisation and politicisation of Norway. History is full of examples of majority abuses against minorities, where minorities have been turned into scapegoats. I had actually hoped that we had learned some of the experiences that history has given us. But for some, it is still politically opportune to challenge minorities in areas where we see it as completely natural for us in contexts where we ourselves are minority, to have rights – see. the day’s notice in the Evening Post that different minority communities are to be served in Norwegian. Who in this room would say that the Church of the Seamen in England, in Dubai, or where it may be, is to preach in English or in the local language? Who would demand it? However, in the case of minorities in Norway, such a requirement is not feasible. These are attitudes – and there are almost attitudes at the hideous level – that I thought we should not have in this country, with the historical experiences we have. One thing is the concrete play-out, but the serious thing is the undertone that lies in such political play-outs. I am pleased that the kind of play-out and thinking contrasts with the action plan for integration presented with the budget. I am pleased with the measures that have been proposed. It's probably not enough, but it's important – and a start on a right path. It shows a completely different attitude, a completely different way of thinking about the immigrant population, than that -- yeah, I'm not going to say what I'm thinking. It is good that the immigration grant to municipalities is increased, as has been stated. Around the municipalities, it will then be possible to integrate several. Unemployment among the immigrant population is high. It is significantly higher among the vast majority of immigrants than it is among the rest of the population. It is important that measures are put in place to facilitate entry into the labour market for immigrants. All labour-oriented efforts to create a labour market that is more willing to open up to the immigrant population are important. The proposal to put in place Norwegian training for asylum seekers is also important. This is a system that the previous government has removed. An important measure to prepare those to stay in Norway at the time of their stay is precisely that they receive Norwegian training. However, it is also important that those who are not allowed to live in Norway after a rejected application are given meaningful employment in the form of meaningful tasks. Learning Norwegian is a meaningful task, which makes your stay different. It is also important that we once again have a free core time system for four-year-olds and five-year-olds. We have tried this before and have had good experience with it. I am very pleased that we are now going to put in place such a scheme, so that four-year-olds and five-year-olds who, for different reasons – perhaps financially – do not have kindergarten space today, are given the opportunity to do so. The integration measures proposed are important — and point in a completely different direction from that of some others in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e457	The party of progress does not have great expectations of the current government's work on the renewal of the public sector. We understand that the Government of the Degrees is required by LO and Gerd-Liv Valla to put a lid on the renewal. For example, I would like to refer to a comitology comment from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left entered on page 18 of the option: ‘These members point out that the objectives of the public sector renewal are to achieve more well-being and less administration, more local freedom and less detailed management. These members consider it important to work on quality objectives that take into account both professional quality, people’s satisfaction, health-promoting work environment, cost control and the continuous build-up of competences. These members refer to the development of good feedback and change of rules and procedures that are not working properly.’;» My question to the representative of Rikvam is: What is the reason why SV cannot support these comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e469	Let me first grasp what it was started with, that LO rules this government. This is a form of rhetoric that I don't have the slightest sense of, where a manufacturer makes it like trade unionism is particularly negative to efficiency improvement, reorganization and getting more out of the public sector. We who come from municipalities where experiments have been made – I think of the municipality of Sørum, from which I myself come – where the trade movement itself has been the driving force in projects that aim to develop models and organisation so that one can streamline and create a better public service, know that this hotness, this rhetoric, is completely unreasonable. It's "all over the earth," to put it straight out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e477	First, a comment on the posts of the representative. He spoke very warmly about politicizing Norway and taking power back from the market. When you talk about the market this way, a little bit of a impression that it's dangerous, a little bit distant. But in reality, the market is all of us, the individual lives in this country. The fact that more power has been transferred from political bodies to some of us is, in our opinion, an expression of democracy. A politicisation of Norway will in reality be a dedemocratisation of Norway. My question concerns the comment from the representative Starheim quoted on his question, a question that the representative Rikvam did not answer. It is quite surprising that the two main and most significant sections of the Soria-Moria Declaration on Public Sector Renewal have become a minority comment in the suspension. Two long sections describing the Government's renewal work are only addressed by the opposition parties – none of the government parties. Does this mean that the government parties have gone away from what is stated in the Soria-Moria Declaration on Public Sector Renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e488	Let me first take this for myself with the market. I just reproduced it as the power investigation – a major research-based project, as I said – concluded with: the decisions have moved from political space to the market. I have no fear of the market. I know that it works very well in terms of distributing many benefits. Most of what we distribute in this country is happening through the market – and it works very well. However, in certain areas it will not work because of different strengths and different forces being brought into the market. I actually thought that the Right also had some knowledge – at least a little bit – that it is not moving power over to individuals, as it has now been produced, but moving power over to the heavy and the strongest market players that are the problem by moving decisions in key social areas to the market. In order to ensure a fair and equitable distribution, it is important that some goods continue to be distributed through policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e499	The representative, Reikvam, said in his speech that when the local economy improves, there will be more teachers and more care workers. The Christian People's Party fully agrees. But in the Soria Moria Declaration there are ambitions for a total of 10,000 new year's work in the care and care sector. For this, municipalities need money, but they also need people with the right skills. In Stavanger municipality, a pre-school teacher is missing in order to achieve the goal of full childcare coverage. The budget must have a whole. My question is: does the representative Rikvam and SV see that one must not cut in institutions, private and public, who educates pre-school teachers and nurses, if one is to be able to achieve the goal of the Soria Moria Declaration? Or, in another way, does the representative Reikvam agree that there is little help with increased frameworks for teachers and caregivers if these do not exist in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e506	I fully agree that it does not help to give municipalities many billions of dollars to hire more teachers and health workers if they do not exist. But I can't quite see that there's been any cut in the educational capacity in higher education. Now we're talking about colleges, because it's basically those who train professional workers like teachers, nurses, etc. There's no cut, on the contrary, it's built up and given room for an increase in the number of students within these areas. The problem is not a lack of capacity for vocational training in higher education. The problem is that too few applicants for this type of education. We have a common challenge in trying to stimulate young people to seek that type of education, and we have a common challenge in using different tools to stimulate more young people to apply for vocational training in higher education. There I believe that both the government parties and the Christian People's Party have a common desire and common goal. There I think we can agree on most of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e513	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e516	The municipality is the main provider of basic welfare services for people. We're going to bet on the municipalities, and the Christian People's Party is rejoicing over every crown that goes to the welfare of the people. We also have great confidence that our elected representatives will manage the funds for the best for their citizens. In order to maximise the freedom of action of local authorities and local democracy, the State should govern through a framework. It is great that the escalation of the municipal economy that began during the Bondevik II administration was followed up by the sitting government. In 2007, the Government provides for a lower real growth for the local government sector than in the current year. The real growth in total income, as we know from new estimates of the tax intake, is about NOK 6.6 billion. Of these, 3.65 billion are free revenues. We are rich in Norway, and increased wealth creates increased expectations. The government parties are making political promises and are further raising expectations. Finally, there will be too much gap between the expectations and the possibilities to meet them. Expectations are increasing faster than local authorities’ financial opportunities. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the financial transfers to the municipalities reflect the actual costs of the municipalities. That's why it was absolutely necessary to have the addition we got in free income, in relation to what was originally presented. The free revenue shall cover a great deal. We are getting more and more older, the cost of the NAV reform is already there, increased social assistance rates and increased expenditure on wage settlement. Starting from counting the heads here, the free income disappears quite quickly, and thus the space for action of the municipalities. The government's proposal for changes to the sickness pay scheme would incur even higher expenditure on the municipalities as an employer. Now this was, as you know, withdrawn, and the municipalities dropped the extra bill in this round. In our alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has proposed moving 150 million. the framework transfers to the county, in order to address the serious needs and challenges of increasing the number of pupils in secondary school. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government promises to increase the number of annual shifts in the care service by 10000 by the end of 2009. I think it is absolutely necessary to make an extra effort in this area. But if the municipalities are to venture, they are dependent on predictability. Therefore, even in the district notice, we are calling for an obliging escalation plan, as the Government announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is true that if the increased income comes only once, or if one has no guarantee that they will come back, one uses them to pay one-off bills. If one in the municipality knows that there will be fixed increases, one can add more and commit to increased wage costs over time. From the government, I presented the draft budget and until today, I have spoken to many rapporteurs and local politicians throughout our country. Our local politicians from all parties are pleased with increases in the municipal framework, but they also say something more. I'm going to sum up the recordings that have been made in the autumn, after the budget has been presented, this is going to be the following: dampen the expectations of what we can manage to achieve for the increase in the free resources. And on the other hand, do something about the financing system for heavy users, and listen to our local politicians! I am pleased that the Committee in the vote has focused on the term ‘maximum funding mechanism for resource-intensive users’. Finally, we have received a note that aims to change the name of this scheme. The Joint Organisation of Disabilities has repeatedly made the Committee aware of the negative and stigmatising perception of this term. It was time we did something about it. The alternative concept we propose is ‘resource-intensive services’. When said about the terminology in the scheme, it is important that the content of the scheme itself be improved. It's uninteresting which government did what. What's interesting is that municipalities get the funds to make good deals for those who need resource-intensive services. The Christian People's Party believes that the state must take a greater share of municipal spending on resource-intensive services. In our alternative budget, we propose initially to lower the proportion of municipalities from 30 pst. until 20 pst. for expenditure beyond the point of entry. The interest compensation scheme for church buildings has been transferred to our budget. There is a great need to repair church buildings. Many churches suffer during years without refurbishment. The State has a responsibility to care for this cultural heritage. I regret to note that the Government does not put in place the necessary measures to refurbish church buildings. The Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget to extend the loan framework for the interest compensation scheme for church buildings by 500 million. kr and to increase the appropriation for interest compensation by 9.8 million. kr. The Christian People's Party believes that a strong and focused focus on integration and inclusion is important. Immigrants and refugees account for half the population growth in Norway. We believe it is particularly important to support the work of voluntary organisations on integration and inclusion. The nationwide organisations working on the inclusion of immigrants receive 1.5 million in the budget. kr more than the Government initially had proposed. Of the organisations receiving support under Chapter 651, entry 71, the organisation Kristent Intercultural Arbeid, KIA, has received clearly at least in previous budgets – despite being Norway’s largest nationwide organisation working for immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers. Therefore, it is right and proper that the majority of the Committee has requested that a significant part of the 1.5 million increase be granted. DKK to KIA. KIA is working for a multicultural society where people meet with care and friendship. The organisation operates, inter alia: with Norwegian courses for immigrant women, teaching aids, short-term nursery, awareness-raising and follow-up of individuals. While all the other parties here strengthen voluntary engagement and work and support this increase, the Progress Party cuts all support to all organisations working for immigrants. The Party is committed to making adaptation requirements and to learning Norwegian. It's okay. But it takes two to dance tango! It becomes paradoxical when they choose to cut off all support to those organisations that are just involved in such work for refugees and immigrants as homework, Norwegian training, etc. It is sad that the Progress Party cannot help supporting the work of Christian immigration. The party of progress says it's the party for most people. If you read a note in the budget position, it becomes clear who you don't count on in the category of people most. For the lot cuts in relation to the Sami and the minorities, they cut in terms of housing support, and they cut in relation to immigrants and refugees. They cut into all posts that affect a number of people in our country. Finally, I would like to spend some time talking about the asylum children. The Christian People's Party believes that all children in Norway should be treated with dignity. No one should grow up in an asylum reception. We are concerned about how asylum-seekers can be treated in our country. Asylum policy must be consistent and fair, so that those in need of protection can stay. The new legislation on asylum children has now been consulted, and I would like to stress the importance of putting these rules in place and functioning as quickly as possible. It looks good, and we are very pleased with the support we have received in the government parties on our proposal for a new policy towards asylum children. Every year, more children come to our country without parents. Children are children, regardless of background. Lone minor asylum seekers must have the same legal certainty and quality of the services offered by the authorities as other children in Norway. The way Norway treats children seeking asylum in this country has been strongly criticised. The Christian People's Party supports the Government when it will transfer care responsibilities for asylum children under the age of 15 from the UDI to child protection. We also believe that the situation for those between the ages of 15 and 18 needs to be carefully assessed, with a view to transferring care responsibilities for them to the protection of the child. We must have a worthy policy towards new Nordics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e561	I fully share the views of Bjørg Tørresdal around the Progress Party, but it is a little sad to note that the Christian People's Party in Oslo is a supporting party for the Progress Party. But that's not what this was really about. It was said here by Bjørg Tørresdal that one was happy for every penny that came to the municipal sector. So am I. Then I'll think there's a lot of joy in the Christian People's Party a day. When I also see the commitment to rectifying the regime that the Christian People's Party was on in government to build down, i.e. for resource-intensive users, I must be allowed to ask Bjørg Tørersdal: Was it hard to sit in government with Right and Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e568	We can show many good results, not least in relation to a flourishing business, and in relation to providing increased tax revenues to the municipal sector. Once again, municipalities get their income from several teams, not only in the form of transfers from the state, but the basis for everything, both in terms of the income of the state and the municipalities, is that we have a business life that goes positive. And the Christian People's Party participated in laying a good foundation for that very thing to happen. Having said that, I would say that the Christian People's Party is very pleased with the transfers to the municipalities. We introduced in our time in government, in the Bondevik II government, the financing mechanism for heavy users, or now: resource-intensive services – at the time 80 pst. Then it was put down to 70 pst. And neither the Bondevik government nor the Stoltenberg government can boast that you've managed to fix it. We've had the chance. What is now important is to focus on doing so, so that municipalities can get good services for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e575	We record that the representative Tørresdal believes that the community must have more responsibility and more power. I would like to refer to a report from the Christian People's Party's Youth Organisation, KRFU, which has sent out a message indicating that in the Government's new regional message there is far too little willingness to transfer real power to the new state-elected level of government that is now to be built up. It is dramatic, and a great threat to the whole of reform. If the Government is not willing to give more tasks and more power to the regions, the Right and the Advance Party are right to have regions lost. After the Government has submitted this message, does the Christian People's Party know it so that they are still a supporting party to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e584	The Christian People's Party wants three elected levels of government in Norway. We've been looking forward to the announcement, and it clearly shows that it's shifting power from the state to a popular regional level – so we're looking at the message that it's going to be a stronger regional level. Now the Christian People's Party has said that here we have a message that has not concluded on the scope of tasks to be transferred to the new level. This means that the work to be done here in Stortinget will be important in concluding in a number of areas, and important in the further work on the notification. We are pleased with the message that we see important tasks being transferred. But we also see challenges in areas where the Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party want to go further or conclude that more extensive tasks than what it's up to are transferred. That work has started so far, and I expect that it will be a good cooperation. We hope that all parties at Stortinget will cooperate on the message. Youth organisations shall always use a little large words. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e594	I have a simple question. The representative Tørresdal is pleased and pleased that the financial arrangements for the municipalities are good. Does the representative, Mr Tørresdal, also welcome the fact that she did not get a majority for her position in the last year's budget debate? If the Christian People's Party's proposal had then been adopted, the municipalities would have gotten NOK 3 billion less.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e599	I got the same question about the Christian People's Party was pleased with the increased framework a year ago, and I can repeat the same thing as I said then. The Christian People's Party is pleased with money for the municipalities. There are many priorities underpinning a government budget. That part of the priorities of the government of Stoltenberg is the Christian People's Party very pleased with, because we know that money for the municipalities is money for welfare. They are safely managed by our local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e604	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e607	I think it is good to hear that we have obviously made a good start on our course of improving the financial situation of the municipalities. We embrace widely and are boasted by the Christian People's Party for the first budget they are not responsible for. I think we started well last year with NOK 5.7 billion. It's been better than what we really thought in the debate last year. As a result of various economic interventions, the local government sector has received about NOK 9.5 billion more during 2006. That's very good. It is good that we will have a solid follow-up in the coming year, which makes it a good foundation locally to pursue an active welfare policy – continuing to strengthen the school, strengthen the care of the elderly and continue to strengthen the local democracy of which we are all proud. What's good about the budget position this year is that it shows that there's a very broad, complex majority here, where both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left support the changes that the Government made last year. They support the fact that last year there was a need for massive investment in the municipal sector, and they are spending almost the same amount of time this year. It is good that they admit that they were wrong, and that there is a need for a boost for the municipal sector. I think it's great. I see the Municipal Committee as the People's Rule Committee on the Stortinget. Firstly, we are responsible for the funding of the political parties, that it should be in order and give the opportunity to do good political work. Secondly, we are responsible for the municipal sector, the distribution of power and several other things. The most important foundation of our rule is local democracy. The struggle between central government and local freedom is an old struggle. We've already seen a little bit of it today. We can go back to the presidencies system in Norway, which was introduced in the 1830s. Then there was a French foreign minister named Tocqueville, who was also a political philosopher, who highlighted local democracy as a bulwark against despotism and as an instrument for increasing economic growth and development in an area. He's been quite right, both in terms of economic growth and in terms of having a bouncy against state sovereignty. What surprises me a little when I read the budget position is how the Progress Party – of all – has become the big state party in Norway, which believes that we here in Stortinget are so elevated and so wise that we can control every small municipality in all of Norway in terms of how to spend their money. The Progress Party and the Center Party have become counter-polar in the belief in the state and the state's unique power. We have faith in people locally – the local sense that people in Harstad can find good solutions to their challenges – while for some reason the Progress Party believes it is much better that everything is governed by the state bureaucracy in Oslo City. I am surprised that the Party of Advancement has laid down on that line, and that populism in the Party of Advancement, Anders Lange's party, has come so far that it is the state that is now, as it is, the elevated and good instrument. This mantra is continuous in the setting: State, State, State. Why did the rapporteurs let themselves rule when Starheim in the Progress Party can rule from Oslo? There is a bad transition tone in the progress party configuration. As a representative of a party called the People's Party, I am pleased that we are clear and dared to raise the free revenues and have given local freedom that has given results, according to the figures we have received from the SSB, and the priorities that have been done locally. We think quite equally, locally and nationally. We see the same challenges, we've seen that in the numbers we've been given. I am pleased that we have presented a good action plan for integration and inclusion. We have given a boost to the Sami work through the Committee's work, to the Southern Sami to take care of one of Europe's smallest languages, to the Finnskog culture, to the voluntary sector through more funds to the Christian organizations and the immigrant organizations and to the Kgl. Company for Norway Well with 1.3 million. kr. We have provided funds for Nature and Youth, Norway’s Building Youth Act and Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams through ‘Shipping us to — Youth into Agriculture’. We have proposed a number of measures to promote diversity and not simply in our attitude. The Progress Party has been against each time it has been about contributing to more diversity in Norway and less equalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e636	The representative from the Center Party is totally wrong about everything he said about the Advance Party. One of the main reasons given by the representative and the Central Party for strengthening the regions in relation to today's county council is to move power closer to the people and to strengthen the People's Government. That is something that the Progress Party fully agrees with. I hope it's the last time I say it, because the rhetoric is the same from the representative. Most local politicians see this too. Local politicians and local politicians are those closest to the population. Then my question is, why is the Central Party not willing to strengthen the primary municipalities? On the contrary, it seems that you want an overcommunal. Why does the Central Party not want local politicians to gain greater power in the reform of the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e645	The Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Sandberg, has stated in the media that he wants approx. 150 municipalities. He therefore calls for a massive merger of the municipalities. This is the model of the Progress Party in relation to local democracy. The party of progress has also not said that they do not want three levels, but they do not want a popular middle level. We want a people-elected middle level. We do not want a massive municipal merger, as the Sandberg of the Progress Party does. We believe that the most important thing in the municipal sector is that many are active in local policy work and have the opportunity to participate and influence developments where they live. That is why we have a totally opposite device in relation to how we want to organise Norway. We want a fine-skinned municipal structure, as opposed to 150 municipalities, and we want the intermediate level to be governed by elected representatives, not state bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e652	Right wants to take the inhabitants seriously, and that is why we want to strengthen the municipality level. Right will decentralize and move tasks to the municipalities, and therefore we moved jobs out of Oslo in the last period. The centre party likes to present itself as the voice of the local community, now also as the People's Party. It is therefore strange that so little is said about the local level in the committee position from the government parties, and it is therefore strange that the government cannot even strengthen the municipality of Skien, by allowing the city to further develop its 20-year-old Ibsen prize. The representative used the expression'rejecting mistrust of the local sense' in his reply to the Right. Isn't it the Center Party that shows distrust of the local wit, when the party refuses to outsource tasks to Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e661	A mission message was presented this weekend, pointing towards the transfer of power from the state bureaucracy to regional elected representatives. We think that's a good step in the right direction. What's lying there is very good, and we're going to have a discussion here in Stortinget. We as a party are always impatient to strengthen local democracy. That's why we've been very offensive now, as the most important element, to do good local political work and strengthen the economic foundation. Some of the main problem in recent years, we think, has been a narrow economic framework, so that dealing with local policies has been so stressful that many have withdrawn from it. We believe that the task message we have now presented provides a foundation for a fine-masked municipal structure and will lead to more active political work regionally. And then we've laid an economic foundation that makes it more interesting to drive more developmental in the individual municipality, including the Ski.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e666	The Christian People's Party welcomes the support we received for our proposal to increase transfers to non-governmental organisations engaged in immigration work. We are pleased that the government parties and the Central Party support this policy – a small step in the right direction when it comes to stepping up towards the voluntary organisations. The Christian People's Party is also engaged in our church buildings around the country, which need refurbishment and increased frameworks for maintenance. In his comments on the draft state budget, KS said that there was little money left in the municipalities. When they were going to cover so much with the free money, there was little money left to refurbish church buildings. The Christian People's Party has proposed in its alternative budget to extend the loan framework for the interest compensation scheme in relation to church buildings. My question is, What is the Government's plan to clean up Norwegian churches?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e676	We've thought that the most important foundation we can have in the first place to get to active local church work is to strengthen the community economy. We know that the municipalities must give priority to the statutory tasks first, and it becomes quick so that school and care comes first in the priority debate. And we also see that out of the SSB's numbers. Then we think, once we've managed to raise the foundation so well, that the municipalities have a completely different opportunity to do active local political church work. They also have the opportunity to take care of church buildings in a better way than they have now. The central party, in line with the Christian People's Party, is impatient to find good arrangements, so that the state can make an extra contribution to strengthening the maintenance of the country's important church buildings, not least medieval churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e681	The cord shifted one over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e684	The left has always been concerned with local democracy, and it is vital for the entire regime of the people of our country that it is anchored locally. It contributes to recruitment, insight and experience, participation and involvement. Without this basic wall of the community, democracy will be confused. We've seen a development with less detail on the latest local choices. We know it's a challenge to recruit young children's parents and business leaders for local politics, and very many tasks and power are centralized into state activities and the largest cities. Because of this, the Left promoted the proposal for a local democracy commission. This Commission has, among other things: two studies have been submitted on the situation of local democracy, and they have been consulted in the municipalities in the autumn. The Commission points out that the economy is important for municipalities, but it also points out that it is not insignificant how municipalities get their money. An increased freedom for municipalities to determine their own income is one of the Commission's proposals. A scarce minority of the Commission wants to give 16-year-olds the right to vote in local elections. These two examples are among a bunch of important fundamental debates that the Local Democracy Commission is going to take, and that deserve attention. The size is legislative authority and can do something about how municipalities are financed, and who gets involved in decisions. I hope the Storting will join in further on the conditions of local democracy, and not just become a funding body. Having said that, I would say that the Left has always prioritised the state's contribution to the municipalities within a policy to create and share. We did this both under the Bondevik I and Bondevik II governments. In the latter case, more was invested in the municipalities than any other government had done until then. The latest figures from Technical Calculation Committee support this. The results for municipalities improved in 2004 and 2005 and are now improving further in 2006. The left is pleased that there is a better match between tasks assigned to municipalities and funding. The left mainly also supports the increased appropriations for the municipal sector for 2007. In the view of the Left, it will be a challenge for the Government to balance the consideration of the local economy with that of a generally responsible economic policy in the future. The Norwegian economy is now at the boiling point, and Norway’s Bank has announced a more frequent increase in interest rates than was the case under the Bondevik II government. For the municipal sector alone, one percentage point of interest increase increased costs by an estimated 800 million. kr. In our alternative budget, therefore, the Left proposes 500 million. kr less in the increase in the income of municipalities than provided by the Government. At the same time, this means that the left will spend 500 million. kr less oil money than the Government will now provide the Norwegian economy. The left believes that a more moderate growth over time will be better for Norwegian municipalities than the rapid growth that the Government is now raising. From experience, we know that strong and rapid economic growth is centralising. The left fears that this will affect small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. One of the main challenges in the municipal sector today is the great slowdown in maintenance and the need for new and adapted building stock. These include: a high need for upgrading school facilities and the construction of new schools in many places in the country. The interest is still high in the interest-rate compensation scheme. In the next year, the earmarked funds of NOK 15 billion are likely to be lent. Here we have to look together at how we can continue a similar arrangement. In the school sector, we also have to note the system of free secondary education. Many states report back that the money does not extend to them. The left believes that an increased grant would be a better solution. The suspension of the Municipal and Management Committee also concerns Sami matters. I am pleased that the Government is increasing the total appropriations for Sami purposes. The important investment in Sami language and information on Sami relations is thus continued. The Left's alternative budget strengthens the Government's investment by a further 10.6 million. kr for Sami purposes. This applies, inter alia, to: 2.4 million. kr more for the publication of Sámi daily newspapers in Norwegian, SEK 4 million. kr more to increased treatment capacity in relation to education-affected co-workers and women, 3 million. kr more to strengthen the offer of the Sami secondary schools in Karasjok and Kautokeino, 3 million. kr more for increased production of Sami learning materials and in addition 0,2 million. kr more to Saemien Sijtje in Snåsa. One thing that I am particularly pleased that we were able to get into with the previous government is the compensation scheme for the co-workers and women who lost school as a result of World War II and the hard research period. There are now well over 1,000 treatment applications, and their treatment is too slow. It's after all the older people we're dealing with here, and many have already fallen away. This is why it is very urgent to have something done, in my opinion, as well as to have to develop a Norwegian-speaking Sámi daily newspaper as soon as possible. Unfortunately, many Sami have never had the opportunity to learn how to read and write Sami, and these live spread throughout the country. How many promises and assurances have there now been in very many comments from different parties over several years about how important this is? But when it comes to the problem, it's allowed too little to realize this. Another very important issue is the need for increased appropriations for the development of educational material adapted to the Sámi primary school. We have now received the promise of knowledge. Previously we worked after L97 and L97Samish. But when true, we would never be able to start working fully after the previous reform because of the lack of learning materials in Sami that were adapted to the previous reform. In addition, a lot of work was to be done on projects, and this was also very difficult due to a large lack of computer equipment. So Norwegian school is a big challenge, but the Sami school is an even bigger challenge for both students and teachers. If we have a desire to continue and further develop the Sami culture and the Sami language, it is absolutely essential that the learning materials situation in the Sami school be improved considerably. We live in a multicultural society, and many years of immigration has given the country the necessary new labour force and many positive impulses. In the future too, we need immigrants, not least in order to have sufficient labour force in the health and care sector. Higher life expectancy and lower birth rates lead to an increase in the number of older persons compared to the number of persons in working age. It is expected that twice as many hours of work will be required in the municipal care service in 2060 as in 2000. We therefore need to create a social climate that is inclusive and building, which facilitates people to come to Norway to seek the good life, and where diversity and effort are appreciated. The left is pleased with the many positive steps taken by the Bondevik II government in this field, not least St.meld. No 49 for 2003-2004, Mangfold through inclusion and participation. This was in total a strong and important message of value, which a large majority in the United Kingdom could stand behind. The left is pleased that the Government is following up this by promoting a separate action plan for the integration and inclusion of the immigrant population. The left wants Norway to fulfil its formal and moral obligations towards people on the run. We are pleased that the Government in its draft budget will increase the quota for transfer refugees from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to 1,200, but the Left will increase the quota by a further 500 this year in addition to the Government's proposals. The left, therefore, allocates 32 million. kr more for quota refugees than that resulting from the Government’s proposal. It is also important to support the work of voluntary organisations on integration and inclusion. In order to maximise the return for each krona invested, the government must invest in the voluntary organisations. The left wants a value creation policy for the whole country. City and country are interdependent. Large parts of the value creation takes place in the districts. A modern district policy will facilitate the development of business at the same time as public services allow for the creation of diverse and attractive communities. The left will focus in particular on important district industries such as tourism, culture-based business, agriculture and fisheries and will continue to work on relocating government jobs. The county councils are currently entrusted with a special responsibility for regional development. The left wants this responsibility to be strengthened. In order for one to succeed in this, the counties need a new organisation and increased resources. The left will therefore facilitate the new county, a unitary model that brings together the county council and the administrative tasks of the county council in a single body, and is entrusted with a number of tasks from the state, including hospitals. The health sector employs a large number of people all over the country. There are many plans for centralisation in this sector. The left believes that County health management will provide good services where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e723	In the setting up of the district communication, the Left was involved in promoting a proposal that we should have an obliging escalation plan in relation to the local economy, in the spirit that more escalation was needed in relation to the local economy. In the treatment of the government budget, the left is 500 million. kr in just the municipal economy, and in the budgetary position they argue for it. Is it so to understand that the Left considers plans more important than action? And it's not an inconsistency when the Left in one moment asks for a escalation plan and the next moment reduces the appropriations by 500 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e732	We think it is very nice with this increase to the municipalities, but we also believe it is important that we get a binding escalation plan. It is a well-known case that the municipalities in the 1990s were assigned a number of tasks without accompanying the money. The left therefore believes that it is neat to have a plan for the tasks and expectations imposed on the municipalities and the funding accompanying the obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e737	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e740	I am pleased that the Stortinget today adopts offensive budgets for municipalities, districts and housing. There is a lot of talk about the municipalities being an important service manufacturer, and that is really my hat right. They are responsible for the most important services that we have around us in everyday life, whether we are talking about kindergarten, school, care, culture or whatever it is. However, it is also important to remember that municipalities are an important democratic arena, and municipalities should also be an important social developer. When we strengthen the municipal economy considerably, we do it to ensure that we have all three functions for the municipalities. In the future, we're going from the Department's side not least to use energy to motivate municipalities to take the role of social development more seriously. It's possible to do now, because the starvation is over and there's going to be a bigger room of action. We will help municipalities become the first line service in business development as they should be, and they will make greater use of the opportunities to involve the voluntary sector in a qualitatively good service provision. We're also going to use the action space to work on renewal and quality. The cooperation agreement between employee organisations, KS and the State is in place as a basis for ensuring the renewal work as a natural and continuous work in the municipalities. The aim is to enhance quality, the method is local cooperation between employees, managers and elected people. During 2007, we will have 100 municipalities with us in the quality cooperation. Several municipalities can be closed in gradually. Over the past 24 hours, we have again been reminded of how vital it is that we continue to work on ethics in the municipal sector. I'm being very excited about new messages about possible corruption in the sector, this time in Bærum. We know that they all, most of them in the municipal sector, are acting on the book and have high ethical standards. We know that we can never fully guard against cellar rings. But there is no doubt that there is a lack of ethical attitudes and control procedures in some municipalities when we get the examples that we are now doing. The government has established a separate forum for ethics in the municipal sector where we bring Norway’s top experts in this field. We have with us the organisations involved in this work. They give us overall advice and guidance on how to work. They also provide us with advice and guidance on the work being done, namely a full review of the law. From the government side, we're going to make sure that we have as much patent law as possible. We're going to make the changes that are wise, to ensure high ethical standards, but you can't help but at the end of the day, this work has to be done in the municipalities. Therefore, we will continue to have close contact with the Municipalities' Central Association, and ensure that this work remains high on the political agenda of the individual municipalities. I would also like to say that the political parties must take greater responsibility for working with ethics towards their local elected representatives. It's also a challenge for those who sit in this room. In the end – and it will be a little short, because I had to get into this with ethics: the budget setting clearly shows that district and regional policy would get very tight if the Right and Advance Party were to get into government offices. People in District Norway should be aware that the Progress Party is cutting $1.1 billion and the Right Cutters $140 million. kr. By doing this, you're going to help crack the spark that we've now created in District Norway. Optimism is on its way up. The measures described here by the Right and the Advance Party will kill optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e760	Governments did not deal with this with resource-intensive users. In the 2007 Municipal Proposition and the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government announced that it would look at the funding mechanism and policy for users with special needs. Today’s scheme stimulates the use of hospitals for the treatment of users with special needs in municipalities. So my questions are, why hasn't the Council of State been able to get through for the clear leadership that lies in the municipal proposition and the Soria Moria statement? Why does the Minister of Health not have the same understanding of this important and demanding challenge that municipalities and users face? This can break the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e767	There is a very important issue that is being addressed, and I fully agree with the representative that something needs to be done here. We have put forward a solid arrangement for Kommune-Norway, but we have not done everything we should do this time either. I've said it in this room before, and I would like to repeat, that my perhaps worst conscience in relation to this community structure is just linked to those who need a lot of services from a municipality. The Minister of Health and I agree that here there is a need to do something – let there be no doubt about it – and we promise to come back to this issue as quickly as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e775	On Friday, the government presented the regional reform, and the reactions were not allowed to wait. ‘That is not all that is stuck together in some late night hours that can be carried out’ was the comment from the County rapporteur in Møre and Romesdal, Jon Aasen of the Workers’ Party. "The only thing that is certain is that most of it is uncertain," said the rapporteur in Naustdal, Jan Herstad, of the Senterpartiet. ‘Puslete regionalmeldning’, said the county food rapporteur, Mr Akershus, Mr Siv Hov Eggs, to the Blad of the East. ‘If this is done, there will be a strengthening in relation to today, but some real reform is not,’ said the County rapporteur in Eastfold, Arne Ören of the Workers’ Party. ‘This is not the basis for forming robust and potent regions with the tasks that the Government has now proposed to transfer’, said Tor Ottar Karlsen, rapporteur-general in Buskerud from the Workers’ Party and head of the County Rapporteur College. ‘No, this is in no way a proposal for reform’, said the county rapporteur in Hedmark, Siri Austeng from the Labour Party, to the evening post. "There is no real reform yet," said the county rapporteur in Akershus, Hildur Horn Island from the Christian People's Party, to the evening post. «For puzzles», said the County rapporteur in Vestfold, Tove Lisbeth Vasvik of the Workers' Party. Are these errors taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e798	It is important that we have ambitious state politicians from the three red-green parties around the country. Our country politicians, our regional politicians, will be given big and new, important tasks. They're happy about that. That someone would go further, it should be. The main distinction in Norwegian policy on these issues goes between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other – i.e. those who want two levels in Norway, and those who want three levels. Right wants to have two levels. The consequence of this will be a massive municipal merger. There will be a solid shot for the bow of local democracy, and there is nothing to pick up from this economical one. It shows all possible experience from Finland. We do not want local elected representatives to lose their functions in order to be cared for by bureaucrats. With the Right approach, we will lose 3,500 local politicians in Norway – 3,300 to be precise. We're sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e807	The Christian People's Party has talked a lot about resource-intensive services. The rest of the Storting has also done so today, and it is good that there is consistency between the bad conscience of the Council of State and a unanimous demand from the Municipality of Norway to improve the funding mechanism for resource-intensive services. In the Municipal Report of November, the Council of State said: ‘– We need to find a solution for these users. It is demanding for a Minister of Health to raise this issue in the priorities, and therefore it may be that we should bring this back to the Ministry of Local Affairs.’ – this is in addition to the fact that it is announced here that there will be something more in terms of resource-requiring services until next year. Can we also expect an improved model for resource-intensive services to be transferred to the municipal area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e819	First of all, I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party, which was involved in weakening this system when they were in government, is now busy improving it. The wider the majority we can have in this area in the Biggest, the better it's seaworthy. We have discussions within the Government, especially between the Minister of Health and the undersigned, on how to organise ourselves in this field in the future. We'll get back to that when we're done talking. It's not about conflicts, it's about practical ways of doing things. We're standing by what we've said: we're going to look at the resource-intensive services system, and we're going to come back to both the way we're going to organise this, the methods we're going to use to make the system fair, and the money associated with this, at a later date. We are very concerned about the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e828	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e831	Once again, I hear the red-green clinging to full kindergarten coverage, which the Progress Party has supported all along, with a good start to the kindergarten agreement, which we got together with SV, and with very good help from all the private kindergartens. But everything else seems to be irrelevant. Full babysitting is fine, but it shouldn't be at the expense of all those who really need help. What about all the poor, what about all those who starve, what about the minimum pensioners who freeze and suffer? Now the government has removed the tax advantage of annuity. According to the Minister of Finance, those who have saved on this can afford to lose tax advantages here – because they are so rich and can afford it. Many of these “rich” have acquired this extra capital by long-term savings, or they have sold their exclusive dwellings and moved into small apartments to free money and get a little more to walk with in their old age. This I think is gross. There are not so many in this country who can call themselves rich, and the real rich are so resource strong that they can secure themselves in other ways. It seems that the government ignores the fact that the postwar children have been home with their own children for many years. The year after so many traditional demonstration trains with torches and home-made banners are probably cancelled in many municipalities. Many municipalities have probably increased the framework for schools, and many see that kindergarten queues can become history. Many municipalities have opted for the care sector, if not enough money, so at least more money to travel with. But municipal funds for new school buildings, for new nursing homes and for new nursing homes have not been found in the municipalities. There is a billion-dollar aftermath of the maintenance of all municipal buildings. There is also a large aftermath on the maintenance of municipal roads. None of this has any room for the Government. There are great values here, and they're decaying and rotting on the root. Many of the municipalities have not been excluded, which the Progress Party regrets most strongly, to have to introduce property taxes, an additional tax that takes unfairly in the municipalities, for those who live in the municipalities – this in order to finance all the promises of the Government. The rapporteur from Sørum, Hans Marius Johnsen of the Workers' Party, says to the newspaper today that it would be difficult to get the budget into port without this unfair tax, i.e. the property tax. The vara rapporteur in the same municipality, Ivar Egeberg from the Centerpartiet, stresses that the property tax saved two of the schools in the village. The red-greens also claim that municipalities receive a significant increase in transfers from the state. But in the budget, the municipalities show that when the earmarked funds and promises from the Government are distributed, there is actually little extra fresh/free money left. For example, in Nittedal, the municipality I come from, the municipality is left with a growth in free income from 2006 to 2007 which equals 2.84 pst. It sounds good, but the municipality has to take account of a price and salary increase next year of 3.5 p.p., plus the last interest rate increase that we got yesterday, which is at least 800 million. kr for the municipalities – and the entire free growth of income disappeared! There is no reason to applaud the centre party rapporteur from Nittedal or the working party rapporteur from Sørum. People are in a condition of health, chronically ill, and people with mental disorders are experiencing minimal help. Many old people still feel that there is a waiting time for home help or a sick home place. I would like to refer to the alternative budget of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has an overall alternative economic policy, a policy that will increase economic growth and contribute to increased value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e844	Today, the media are looking at the labour market situation with a description of a labour market characterised by labour shortages. Norwegian businesses are now hampered in their development due to labour shortages. Some have a tendency to constantly describe immigration to Norway as a problem. But it is almost impossible to imagine what the situation would have been like on the labour market today without the great effort being made by the immigrant population every day in Norwegian working life: in the transport sector, in the municipal care sector, in hospitals, in the Post, in Veritas, etc. Norwegian working life depends on the immigrant population, which is doing a great job. Much of the reason why Norwegian work today is going around is that we have had an immigration. We have to stop defining immigration as a big problem. In fact, it would have been that if we hadn't had immigration, we would have had a huge problem. However, the immigrant population also represents a large unutilised labour force resource. The general unemployment rate in Norway now stands at about 2 p.m., while the unemployment rate among immigrants is about 7 p.m. And so it's that, in terms of the employment rate, it's significantly lower in the immigrant population than in the ethnic Norwegian part of the population. So it's going to be one of those degrees of winning-win situation if we manage to take advantage of the situation we have in the labour market today, so we get more jobs. It'll be good for the country. Then we will have to meet the need for labour. It will be good for the individual, who will then be able to take care of himself financially. It will be good for businesses, which are currently hampered in their development due to labour shortages. Therefore, work is the main initiative of the Government’s Action Plan for Integration and Inclusion. The approach angle to that plan is not, as someone from this pulpit is constantly saying, that we sew cushions under the arms of people, especially on the immigrant population, and that we don't make demands. Of course we do – of course we make demands. But the main challenge for those who today lack jobs in the labour market we have is not a lack of demands, but a lack of competence in relation to what is demanded in the job vacancies. This is why the answer to an increased commitment to work for the immigrant population is full of skills, so that you get the skills required by the job vacancies. That's also our strategy. Applicants for authorisation in Norway, whether asylum, visa, work or Norwegian citizenship, are all entitled to be treated as quickly as possible, and we have a challenge today because we have too long waiting. That's why we've been very busy with the UDI and Foreign Affairs Department budget to deal with more issues than this year. But I need to say that the Foreign Affairs Directorate's budget takes into account an increase in the number of cases. However, developments in the last few months may indicate that the number of cases of stay is increasing more than foreseen. In the context of the ongoing follow-up to the UDI review, we are now also going through thoroughly the budgetary assumptions underlying the UDI's production objectives. We need to find the right balance between qualitative and quantitative measures of production. The uncertainty over the number of cases and the review of the budgetary assumptions for UDI’s production targets may mean that there will be a need to come back to this matter in the Storting in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e858	The Council of State is, to a large extent, right in claiming that Norway is experiencing labour shortages in certain areas today. It's a proper analysis, but it's not something that necessarily has to go on in the future. What is problematic about what the Council of State says is that they want to fill the demand for labour by means of immigrants, not least from non-Western countries – that is, in a situation where we know that unemployment among non-Western immigrants in particular is much higher than it is in other groups, as well as in other immigrant groups. In the past, the Council of State has raised the issue of labour immigration from Pakistan. Then we're talking about a country where 50 pst. the population is illiterate and less than 4 pst. higher education of the population — that is, not what we demand for high skills in Norwegian working life. The question to the Council of State is: how can non-Western immigration be a solution to the demand we have in the labour market today for high-skilled labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e869	First of all, the question comes wrong from the very beginning. The fact that the situation we now have in the labour market is cyclical, and that there is a great chance that in the future we will again face a labour surplus situation is an analysis based on disregarding population development. The analysis is now clearly in the direction that Norway will also lack labour in a situation of low economic activity. Therefore, we need to put in place national strategies. Then we have to think about two tracks. One is to get more of those who are already in Norway — today living with different social benefits, which are primarily ethnic Nordics — to work. But we also have to think offensively: labour immigration. For the labour shortage situation is not just a Norwegian phenomenon, it is a European phenomenon. If we don't like being attractive in a labour market, people will travel elsewhere, and Norway will be the loser. This is the party of progress which has not understood. Norway will lose weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e878	In Political Quarter yesterday we heard the recording of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's comment on the appointment of Hadia Tajik as political adviser in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Schjøtt-Pedersen paid particular attention to the importance of employing employees with a minority background working on immigration and inclusion policy. In the same programme we heard an interview with State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen from the fall of 2005. Here the Council of State is aware that he believes diversity is important, but that it is symbolic politics to employ someone with a minority background right in his department, because they work with immigration and inclusion policies. Now the Council of State has employed, contrary to its own advice. Does the Council agree that this employment is a negative symbolism policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e888	What's fine with this question is that I'm given the opportunity to say a little about how we now organize ourselves in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. There is a ministry that many in this room have also been aware of many tasks. It is a large and comprehensive portfolio in the department. The fact that we are now strengthening the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion with a political adviser in addition to those we have is that we need to strengthen our overall political competence and strength. Hadia Tajik should not be particularly concerned with integration and immigration issues; she should be a general political adviser in our department. She's chosen by me based on her broad competence and political experience background. So she's not chosen because she's also a child of immigrant parents. It is her knowledge and competence that is the starting point for that choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e893	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State when he says in his speech that the immigrants in Norway are a resource that we depend on in this country. But there are also many challenges related to immigration. The Christian People's Party has expectations that we will get the legislation in place in 2007 with regard to asylum children, insurmountable refugees, etc. The Christian People's Party is also occupied by some groups that may not be subject to a new law or changes to the law, and it is those who have received a residence permit, but not residence. Immigrants, therefore, are in reception after they have settled, but they have disabilities or some problems that make them – as Rogaland Avis said – refugees no one wants. Does the Council of State now have any plan for this group, which seems to fall outside all arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e902	It's a very important question that's being addressed, because what we're now seeing is that people with special disabilities are staying in reception for a very long time. That’s because – and I think we have to be very honest about it – the overall financial situation from the state is not good enough. As a result, the municipalities say, we have heart space, we have warmth, but we don't have so much money that we can take on as much municipal self-esteem as many of these people want to represent. That's why I've now connected a work to what else there's been an interest in the debate, that's the new system for those who need resource-intensive services. We're now linking our work with the integration grant and the extra grants we give up to this work, so that we get a whole that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e907	As a representative of Finnmark, and in particular Karasjok, I feel a great responsibility to address a matter that I highlighted in my post instead. This concerns the educationalally injured group and the women who have lost school because of war and a strong lead time. It's people who have had very difficult and tough lives. That is why I think it is very important that we now get a step forward in the process of dealing with these applications. Many have waited more than 20 years for answers, and they should be able to get answers while they are still alive. How will the government deal with these applications in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e914	What we have done is that, after taking over, we have significantly strengthened the procedural capacity of those who are working on this. What is important to say is that it is not just about strengthening the legal capacity of the judiciary secretariat, but it is also very important to strengthen the capacity of the Directorates. In particular, in the case of those injured in education, the Education Directorate has had to be strengthened. There we have now gone from two to three years of work and up to 15 to 16 years of work to get speed on it. That's why the first ones have now received an answer. It shows that things are happening now. I fully agree with the questioner that it is very important that we now get black as soon as possible. So we've been trying so hard to get the treatment capacity up, and now we're getting a response.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e921	Yesterday we could read in the Address Paper about a 28-year-old African, HIV-positive like that, who was convicted of a gross rape, and who in spite of it, and in spite of the fact that it was at the time his case was dealt with in the UDI, family reunification was granted. It is a little special that a person in custody, accused of a serious crime, is nevertheless granted family reunification. Today we can read in the Address Paper that the UDI has quickly converted the decision so that the person will not have family reunification anyway. There should be reason to believe that the person should also be expelled from Norway after the three-month rule when he has finished atoning. Does the Council of State think that the UDI's treatment of this matter represents good management of Norwegian foreign policy? What will the Council of State do in case it cleans up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e928	It is a bit demanding to link this line to the budgetary procedure, but I would like to reply. The regulatory framework for this type of family reunification is clearly linked to the fact that, when the family is reunited in Norway, it must also be able to live together. It is then obvious that when the person applying for family reunification is imprisoned and sentenced in the first instance, and is therefore entitled to a long prison sentence, he has no opportunity whatsoever to live with the family he is reunited with. Therefore, when UDI becomes aware of such a fact, it is also right for them to withdraw the authorisation. That's what happened. So the rules are right, and the family won't come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e933	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e936	Since 1980, the proportion of immigrants in Norway has increased from about 2 pst. For more than 8 pst. Today, under 400,000 immigrants live in the country, and the largest group comes from non-Western countries. Of course, we face many challenges in our multicultural and diverse society. Yesterday's solutions are not always adapted to today's reality, which sometimes both worry and create uncertainty. In the field of integration, there is also no good news that most often characterizes the media image. Rather, it is the problems that set the agenda. It is the children and young people who are to ensure well-being in the future. They are the future of Norway. The integration debates have focused a lot on the growth generation and first generation immigrants. The children have not received the same political attention. It is unacceptable that immigrant children cannot Norwegian when they start school. Then they come out crooked from the very beginning. If the students cannot speak, other subjects become invincible, and the danger of dropping out of school becomes great. Good Norwegian training is good prevention work. Both health centres and kindergartens are important venues to catch up with the children who are unable to speak well enough. However, we believe that there is little efficient use of resources when government parties will provide free core time in kindergartens for all 4- and 5-year-olds in specific areas. We want to spend the same money on language measures for the 4- and 5-year-olds who need it. Then it is more targeted, and more children will benefit from the funds and become better in Norwegian. More kids will have a good school start. Recently, there were reports that there are major challenges in school compared with Norwegian training. Norwegian as a second language is not being run well enough, and immigrant children become losers. ‘The school system must adapt to today’s reality, so that immigrant youth learns Norwegian properly’, was the message to Ziba Amini at the Eastfold Resource Centre at a recent conference. It is unmistakable that the school has a very important job to do, but we must not forget that the parents have a great responsibility to make sure that the children get good in Norwegian. Society must optimise its relations. The students themselves have to want to learn, as a student said. There was an overall increase in the number of refugees and immigrants in Norway during the previous period. Norwegian knowledge is the key to successful integration, and the mandatory introduction programme, which goes over two years and contains both work practices and Norwegian training, is a consistent and targeted scheme. Combined with a faster process and shorter time in asylum recipients, I am sure that the introduction programme will provide better opportunities for immigrants in the Norwegian community. The experience with the introduction program is so good. Nearly three out of four participants remained in the programme at the end of 2005. Everything suggests that good development continues, because many municipalities are doing a solid job in this field. In fact, municipality Norway provides a good basis for future improved employment statistics. Despite the labour shortage, it is a fact that unemployment among immigrants is much higher than among the rest of the population. Labour market demand for labour, and job opportunities are present. But business must also demand and be willing to open the doors to those with a foreign name. It is difficult to know whether the extent of discrimination is high or low, but it is quite clear that many hundreds of job rejections make the labour market appear to be closed. Active integration and employment policies need to strengthen the integration of immigrants into the labour market, so that they have a level of professional participation with the rest of the population. In the labour market too, we must ensure that immigrants have the same opportunities, the same rights, but also the same obligations as the population. If groups in society experience being excluded from participation in society, it can – we know – contribute to both unrest and conflict, or to the formation of unwanted parallel societies. It's nice when the media share happy news in the integration field. In my mind, I now have a libertarian and optimistic mayor of the municipality of Bamble in Telemark. The Presidency was to decide on the number of refugees they would like to welcome to Bamble next year. That's when the mayor said, ‘We have vacant dwellings, we have an apparatus to receive them and we have a labour market that accepts people as long as they learn Norwegian. Yes, we have companies that pick up our people themselves before they finish Norwegian training."
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e956	I know it's good to be able to stand here today and deal with next year's municipal budget, which is getting better and better with this government's commitment to public welfare services. It's important for the Workers' Party that we keep a part of our history. We are known for creating Community solutions. We've always meant, and still think, that more heads together think better and solve larger problems. At the same time, it is gratifying to see that the parties that provided the tight belt around the municipal economy for the last four years now actually recognize that this has been a heavy cost to the municipalities. They're increasing their transfers, they're also -- in fact, wanting to topple the majority parties. With the 2006 and 2007 budgets, the government has now increased transfers to the municipalities by about DKK 13 billion. This was a be or not too many municipalities, and we are proud to have chosen to give such a clear priority. I think people appreciate that. I thought I'd draw out some of the young profile that I think the government budget has in our field, and I'm glad it's possible to do that. We send with a small wish list of the free revenues. The pediatric bet by the majority in 2007, is absolutely a necessity to put in place one of the most desirable welfare services that has been in demand for a long time — kindergartens. It is the Workers' Party's clear vision to ensure that we reach full child care coverage by the end of 2007. There is nothing to suggest that we can slow down the pace from 2006, on the contrary. It also turns out that it depends on the biggest cities if we can achieve the goal, but we have a clear call for them to do it. It's expected. There is a strong need out there for many young children’s parents who want to contribute to an already-needing labour market. Moreover, economic developments in this country are difficult for those with one income to live on. Barnhagen will also finally be recognised as the first learning venue, as it actually is – now well placed under the Ministry of Knowledge. So, for high school education. Finally, we're on the go again. The first steps to free school books in high school are being started. This will be a grant available to the county councils and local adjustments to the scheme will be possible. We promised free schoolbooks to everyone within this period, and our intention is clearly to keep that promise. For young people, this means a lot, but at the same time it sends out signals that knowledge and education are something we appreciate in our society. It's not supposed to be the private economy that keeps people from learning. It is a good socio-economic policy, but for the Workers' Party it is also a good welfare policy. Psychiatric health is probably the largest and perhaps the most demanding health challenge for Kommune-Norway to work on in the future. The number of enquiries is increasing, and tragically, enquiries from children and young people are alarmingly high. The queues are getting longer, and there is clearly a need for effort in this field. By increasing the activity of prevention, such as a health centre for young people, information and outreach activities in young people, we hope to be able to do a part here. It is a difficult group to reach, but we want health services to take the initiative to lower the thresholds between departments, especially for schools and kindergartens to be better educated in this field. Unfortunately, the number of references does not confirm what we want in relation to reaching children and young people as early as possible. This debate is also an important value debate on what kind of society we are getting, where more and more young people are falling out in a way. This State budget actually sets an agenda for many such key debates through the Action Plan on Poverty and the Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion. We, the Labour Party members of the Committee, are proud to be able to present our first self-appointed budget for the municipal field. We see that it has a good profile, and we use the Soria Moria declaration as the main tool for shaping our policy. It makes us responsible, and I think people will recognize the good left policy that won the election campaign. But we're not done. We have a lot left. The social debate is going, and we're hanging out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e981	The Progress Party believes that the efficiency of public administration does not have the desired progress. We would point out that the objective of public sector renewal is to achieve more well-being and less administration, more local freedom and less detail management. We believe it is important to work on quality objectives that cover both professional quality, health-promoting work environment, cost control and continuous competence building. There must be a good system of feedback and change of rules and procedures that do not work according to the plan. The Progress Party believes it is the Ministry of Renewal and Administration that must be the main engine of this work. We believe that progress is by no means satisfactory. For the public sector, it is particularly important to use new technologies and new forms of work, with the potential for doing so. The public sector uses large parts of the total value creation in Norway each year. When the public sector uses the community funds, it must have a special responsibility for all public enterprises, and in particular the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. The Progress Party believes that the public sector should be much more open in its case-handling, so that they can be satisfied with the debt, the other parts of the case and the public. After the view of the Party of Progress, this may be done without prejudice to privacy or to the obligation to participate. In our view, a more open procedure could be subject to a continuous assessment and efficiency of the public sector, for the benefit of the citizens. The party of progress is still of the opinion that public activity should make greater use of instruments such as supply, privatisation and competitive stimulation. The party of progress believes that there must be a particular foundation if these principles are not to be used by the public. The government has scraped a lot of the broadband bet. They indicate that this bet will result in a broadband coverage of about 95 pst. Now, the truth is what the government party likes very badly, that it's the market forces that have rid most of this expansion. Nevertheless, it will still be approx. 100000 households that have to cope without broadband. Calculations show that the final bill will come up to NOK 1.5 billion before it is fully extended to all. The reason for this is bad phone lines and long distances. With today's permissions it will take many years for one to reach all. The government has allowed broadband for everyone during 2007. They expect private actors, counties and municipalities to take their share of the bill. When the state has taken out over DKK 1.7 billion in exchange for Telenor only in 2005, it is a paradox that the Government is not willing to allow more money for broadband expansion. I don't think I'll take my mouth too full when I claim that the government has promised again something they are not able to hold. Finally, I would like to point out again that it is particularly important that public administration be made as simple and cost-effective as possible. The progress party would point out that there is someone who has to pay the bill in terms of increasing taxes and taxes. Had state, state, and local government taken the right hold, we could save a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1000	The Labour Party is working for a tolerant and diverse society. Everyone shall have the same rights, duties and opportunities regardless of ethnic, gender, religion, sexual orientation or functioning. Equivalence, solidarity, justice and a good policy of distribution are the basic values for creating such a society. A multicultural, inclusive society requires gender equality and a society free from racism and discrimination. There has to be an adaptation of both roads — immigrants need to adapt to Norwegian society while society has to adapt and take up its value by having more cultures represented. We are pleased with immigration. In the future, society will depend on immigration, both in terms of working life, which has been the subject of many people, and in order to solve important welfare tasks. We need to have a bigger debate on what a multicultural society means. In that debate, it is important that we establish some fundamental values, such as freedom for every human being, equal opportunities for all and tolerance. These must be values we can never go on chords with. Then we also have some challenges. Almost all sectors of society are influenced by migration. It presses resources within e.g. the areas of health, social and justice. It is important to focus on this in order to respond properly to these challenges. I want to refute the claims made by Per-Willy Amundsen from the Progress Party. Firstly, integration in Norway is in many ways a success when compared with other countries. In view of some challenges, the overall failure of integration in Norway must not be created. In my view, France and other countries with major integration problems have had these problems because they have pursued the policy that the Progress Party now wants to adopt in Norway. Youths are largely left to themselves. They have fallen out of education. It has not been housing investment. They've fallen out of work. France has realized that this was a loss, and it's a mystery to me that the Progress Party wants to repeat those losses. After all, it's all about using what you've got up on the Nepa. But the Progress Party has a good tradition of trampling on people who are already down, stigmatizing and putting people up against each other. Leading politicians from the Progress Party have hounded and stigmatized single mothers. The Progress Party will take away people's rights in working life. As a northerner, Per-Willy Amundsen will be pleased that Norway has become an immigration nation, for now there are no longer northerners who want to trample on and stigmatise the Progress Party, now there are immigrants. The action plan for the integration and inclusion of the immigrant population, presented together with the State budget, represents an overall effort in this area. The action plan is divided into four areas: work, growth, education and language, equality and participation. Governments have gone through these areas of activity. I'm going to mention work in particular. The connection to the labour market is of great importance for individual participation, self-realisation and dependability. Work is therefore a central instrument for the inclusion of immigrants. It is also fundamental to freedom for individuals. In the case of women, we see that they have special challenges in relation to participation in employment. We should therefore also consider whether more than today can be covered by the introduction scheme in the future. The vast majority of those moving to Norway through family reunification, and thus not being offered an introduction programme, are women. The Labour Party's key to achieving better integration into society remains to bet on a good public school where everyone can go together and continue to bet on working for everyone. Social housing policy is also important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1026	It is difficult to see the input from the State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen earlier today as anything other than the argument for increased immigration to Norway. This is in so far as an argument is also related to the policy of the current government, which increases the number of quota refugees, puts forward a more liberal and clever asylum policy, and does not, at least so far, put the brakes on or do the necessary measures in relation to family reunification, where massive immigration comes. When it comes to the argument for labour immigration based on the need for labour in Norway, it is, with respect to reporting, a constructed production of the situation. It is correct that Norway per 1 000 current labour deficits in certain areas, in particular in terms of high skills, but these are factors that are fundamentally driven by changes in the economy and by changes in conditions. We don't know what Norway looks like in five years, ten years, or two years. However, if you are to assume that you need immigration to Norway for economic reasons, you must also be willing to do the math. And that's when I think the Council of State will be short, because, as has been mentioned before today, there is a cost side of, in particular, the massive non-Western immigration into Norway: large social payments, among other things. social security, and crime-related costs – unfortunately. And unemployment among non-Western immigrants is high. If you do the math, I think you'll get about the same answer as the Danes. It has been found that immigration into Denmark costs Danish society between 30 and 50 billion dollars a year. So the economic argument for immigration to Norway, especially from non-Western countries, is difficult to see at all. In fact, I would argue that it is not present. It's something that's designed. On the contrary – if we want to solve the labour challenges, we have something called the EU/EEA area. Here we can pick up new labour, it's a large internal market that enables us to meet many of the challenges. We have expert quotas within Norwegian foreign administration, and we can do things, not least, if we rationalise and free labour from the public sector to the private sector. So there's a lot of things we can do to meet the challenges of labour scarcity right now. It is good to record that the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande determines that there will be some basic values that will be common to all people who choose to live in Norway. It's equality, it's democracy, it's human rights, equality and tolerance. We agree on that. But the question is, how are we going to create the foundation for the common values? Each time the Progress Party proposes concrete measures to meet those challenges – unfortunately, there are parts of the immigrant population that do not share these values – it is clearly rejected. In many ways we face a value struggle, a value challenge, in relation to the values that many immigrants take with them from non-Western countries when they choose to live in Norway – completely different values, which are totally at the collision course with the Norwegian society. We're not going to accept that. In Norway, there are some basic values to be present, but then one must also be willing to apply the measures that ensure that this happens, for example. Responses to sexual mutilation — a totally reprehensible, reprehensible act that we know is taking place in the immigrant communities. This could have been solved very simply by introducing mandatory health checks at health centres, but it does not want the Workers' Party and the Government to go in for it. The same applies to the issue of forced marriage, which is also totally unacceptable in Norwegian society. There is no willingness to put in place the means to achieve: 24-year limit, connection requirements, higher dependability requirements, etc. The working party is talking, but they don't have the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1039	The Labour Party is proud of what we have done in the municipal sector in the short time we have been in government. We have fulfilled what we promised in the election campaign. We're betting on community and welfare that benefits everyone. We're talking about this in a lot of contexts. In large headlines we talk about frameworks, free revenues, taxpayers, district policy instruments and millions and billions. But most people are not so concerned with this political rhetoric. What people are busy about is that they can have a job to live with, they're concerned that the kids have a good school, that there's room in the kindergarten when they need it, that the older ones have an offer of housing and care that's safe and good. They are dedicated to having a pleasant community, with a leisure opportunity for everyone. And people have expectations that local politicians will be able to meet these needs. After many years of Bondevik government and with the help of the Progress Party, the municipalities were depleted, and the daily lives of local politicians were mostly cut more and more to make the budget go up. This has now turned around. Local authorities have been given a strengthened and predictable economy, which in turn has given greater room for action to local politicians. But it takes time to make it visible that it has turned around, and it's hard to bring out the sunshine stories in today's media world. Nevertheless, we note with pleasure many feedback that we are on the right track, and I would like to mention some examples that prove that it is useful to bet on the municipalities. During 2006 and 2007, the municipality of Arendal will have strengthened the care service with a total of 40 years’ work. This is a step in the right direction towards 10,000 more annual work in the care sector. Not only does it mean better quality of service, but it also means a significantly better everyday life for those employed in this sector, as they have long wanted. Arendal has also put real pressure on kindergarten development, and the goal of full kindergarten coverage is no longer far away. They have strengthened the school with more jobs and have given special priority to the counselling service, which has been a neglected area, and which is incredibly important in relation to the drop-out we see in high school today. In addition to Arendal, I have to go to Trondheim Municipality as an example. They have implemented a formidable strengthening of care for the elderly, and the next promise is taken on the health care side. They have also implemented a number of measures for children and young people, including: they have removed hall and track fees to strengthen sport, they give free camp schools to everyone, and they have 800 more places in the music and cultural school, to mention something. Our country is long-distance and the municipalities are different. Urban and district municipalities face different challenges. It's important for the Workers' Party and for this government that we take action and make it possible for us to use the whole country. In the spring, therefore, the Government is presenting a capital message, and we have just addressed the district communication where we are establishing a wide range of regional and regional policy actions. There is a clear change of course in Norwegian policy, and the dividing lines between our Community ideology and the individualized ideology of the right is clearer than ever. We'll do it. With us, there'll be more of what people most want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1056	Housing, together with work, education, health and care, is a cornerstone of the welfare community. Social housing and housing for all have been the main objectives of social democratic thinking in Norway. A good housing in a good environment is a necessary prerequisite for a good life for the individual. Housing policy is therefore one of the main tools for achieving key societal objectives of human freedom, equivalency and fair distribution. The house bank is the country's main tool for ensuring the smooth construction of the nights, reasonable and environmentally-rich dwellings. I am pleased that the majority in the committee believes it is important that the Husbank should play a central role as a general bank for housing, rehabilitation and establishment. In order to achieve the housing quality and stabilisation objectives, it is necessary for the Husbank to continue to finance a large proportion of newly built dwellings in the future. According to the Labour Party’s view, the Husbank will finance about half of the new building in Norway. The house bank should also play a counter-cyclical role in the future by financing a larger share of newly built dwellings where there is a risk of decline in housing and a smaller share in times of very high construction activity. Such policies should be governed by establishing the loan framework, so that other aspects such as loan measurement and other quality criteria are predictable. It is very important that housing policy has a broad perspective and that the Husbank's instruments support this. The household bank has an important role to play in promoting competition in the credit market. Another very important instrument of housing policy is the housing support scheme. On average, housing aid contributes to a reduction in housing costs as a share of income by 20 percentage points, and thus housing aid is a central tool for combating poverty. The housing aid is targeted and rigorously tested. I welcome the Government's proposal that housing aid applications should be dealt with on an ongoing basis, and I suggest that this is an improvement in relation to today's system, which often creates major problems for those who really need it. Today’s legislation requires housing beneficiaries to wait up to eight months before receiving the aid they are entitled to under the legislation. When we know that those who are entitled to housing support are in a difficult economic situation, such a practice is, of course, unsustainable, and so it is good that it is cleaned up in this. I also show that the Government has launched a comprehensive review of the housing aid, the aim of which is to improve and simplify the housing support system, and that the Government intends to submit a proposal on the matter in the autumn of 2007. Compared to all dwellings built with a universal design, the House Bank is financed. With an increasing proportion of older people in the population and a clear desire for integrated housing for the physically handicapped, the universal design of housing will increase sharply. In my view, universally designed housing is also a good social economy. Dwellings designed to enable disabled persons to master their everyday life on their own give less pressure to nursing homes and homes. It is therefore good that the Government will work to increase the number of dwellings and residential areas available to people with disabilities. But it is not enough that just new dwellings are universally designed. It is necessary to facilitate the renewal and reconstruction of existing dwellings and buildings in order to meet the requirements of accessibility and universal design. What delights us most in the Workers' Party in this context is the majority's remark that we will take a positive view of projects that can help to increase competence in relation to post-installation of lifts in existing buildings. The most joyful and positive thing on the part of the Government is the outsourced state funds for its own Groruddal bet. The Groruddalen, one of the most important areas in Norway, needs specific measures to improve living conditions. No other settlements and surrounding areas in the country are as burdened with noise and air pollution as the Groruddalen. That is why the government must be given credit for setting it among its priorities. I believe it is important that these funds are included in a ‘common pot’ in which the State and the municipality participate. It is important that the State and the Municipality of Oslo cooperate on a common commitment to improve the environment and living conditions in the Groruddalen. Finally, a few words about integration and the Progress Party. Of course, the Workers' Party has been responsible for integration and immigration policy in recent years. Because we have a policy in this area, unlike the Progress Party, which has never had anything else to say but: Close the borders! Stop immigration! – are contrary to the needs of the labour market and the globalised economy. The Labour Party is proud of the positive integration that has taken place and takes responsibility for what has been done and is delighted with the task of addressing the future challenges in this sector. In the evening post today, the Progress Party has a Christmas greeting to the minorities. They want to control state religious churches. I thought that this Stalinist way of thinking, of controlling people's thoughts and suspicions, was the KGB that stood for in Communist driven Eastern Europe, and that this was referred to the scrapheap in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. But it seems that it is the Liberals of Western Europe, who, with the Progress Party at the head, have appointed themselves defenders of the individual and freedom – parties who want to have the least possible involvement in people's everyday lives – who are interested in moving forward. Finally, I just want to say: do not be afraid of what is said, fear what is not said!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1086	It is not just the budget debate in Stortinget and Christmas gifts that characterise December. This month is also marked by social gatherings in most forums. Not only here in the house do politicians have closing parties, it also applies to most local governments around the country. In my own municipality, Asker, they recently had their traditional cod dinner. Other municipalities probably have different traditions. The country's municipal government representatives have good reason to be in a good mood this year. Because after many lean years, they have now been given the opportunity to do what they have been chosen to do, namely to give priority to good purposes that will benefit citizens – thanks to good municipal budgets from the red-green government in the last two years, and to retain more of the solid tax input than is usual. There is economic prosperity in Norway. We are now in the midst of a strong economic boom. A sensible and sound budgetary policy, in which both the previous and the current government have followed the rule of action, ensures a firm move forward. At the same time, we must avoid a situation of private wealth and public poverty. If we are to have a good business that creates values in the future, we must invest in a good school, a well-functioning health care and kindergartens for everyone. And it costs money. That is why this budget is so good for the municipalities. Overall, the adjustment of revenue estimates for 2006 and 2007 will mean that the income growth of the local government sector in these years can be estimated at nearly DKK 18 billion. This is not the level of income growth that the municipalities have had in 15 years. In my home country, this is love money, as in the rest of the country. Akershus has many municipalities of growth. They experience a population growth that puts a great deal of pressure on municipal provision. Schools are full. New ones must be built. Despite the massive expansion of kindergartens, the queue does not completely disappear, even if it gets shorter. Because more and more children are moving. At the same time, the wave of older people is turning into municipalities like Asker and Bærum, Skedsmo and Lørenskog. The need for care and care for the elderly will explode in these municipalities. These are municipalities that also have an increasing population of immigrants, while problems related to child protection, drug use and psychiatry pose increasing challenges for these municipalities. All of this puts municipal assistance to the test. Before, these problems were often linked to the big city. But the municipalities that surround Oslo experience that the municipal boundaries do not stop this development. Therefore, the municipalities that surround Oslo have expectations that the capital message will not stop at the top of the Grorud valley, at Mastemyr and at Lysakerelva, but instead look at Oslo and the neighbouring municipalities as one region, where the inhabitants move, commute and live across the formal municipal borders. The new sample, which has been reduced to look at the income system, also needs to include this problem in its work. Whether the municipal budget to be adopted today is a pleasant reading, the cuts proposed by the Progress Party appear to be strange – not because they systematically cut into measures that promote integration. It must be and is not surprising from the policy it stands for. But it is now time that what we politicians are about in the budget should be related to reality. A draft budget, even from an opposition party, must take account of the consequences it will have. A number of cuts are proposed in the area of integration and immigration, without justification for their implementation. It is true that their narrowing of immigration policies would lead to a different number of immigrants from those who are actually in Norway. But you can't reverse this. Those who are already in Norway are here, and then it has to be reflected in the budgets, if you want to be taken seriously. For example, the integration cuts cannot be implemented without simultaneously changing the rules in relation to the right to the introduction programme and the Norwegian course. That hasn't happened. From the time of the application for asylum, until the settlement is in place, it may take from one to more years. By reducing immigration, therefore, this item will not be able to be cut until in a year or more, or even longer in time, and that means that the Progress Party alone has power. In other words, the policy is not linked. No proposals have been made for this in the last period. In addition, the cost of operating the reception will be increased if the UDI cut proposed by the Progress Party became a reality. The case-handling time will increase as a consequence of the UDI cuts. Cutting language and social education makes it even more difficult to qualify immigrants to participate in the labour market. This, in turn, will lead to more social welfare recipients. This is also not reflected in the budget. That is why I call for a more realistic approach to the budget proposal from the second largest party in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1107	The government wants a strong and effective public sector that provides citizens with good services, freedom of choice and advice. That is why we want to further develop the welfare community. We want to bet on Community solutions and reduce the differences in society. Through active interaction, we will create the world's best public sector. So we're working systematically to ensure that public services are of high quality. At the same time, the Government will work to streamline and free resources for important areas, so that the high ambitions we have for the public sector can be realized within a defensive economic and environmental framework. Renewal work is to be done on the basis of the needs of the users, and on the basis of those who want to put the renewal into practice. Then we have to take care of our added ones. Not least, we need it at a time when there is a struggle for recruitment, for the labour force, also in the public sector. We need more hands at work. Questionnaires from the Statistical Central Bureau and the Centres for Senior Policy show that as many as six out of ten seniors want to postpone retirement if they have reduced and flexible working hours. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee supports the Government's efforts to reduce working time for this group. It's a direct follow-up to the Soria Moria platform. It is time for the government to organise a good trial of reduced working hours. We're going to try this out and get knowledge based on experience of how the seniors in practice behave when they get a reduction in working time. In addition to the senior test, we will have to carry out assessments and research on other important issues related to working time, such as working time. time lag, sick absence, tour work. I note that the government's proposal for senior testing is not supported by the minority. It surprises me. In the NRK this spring, Right was on the table – Martin Engeset, who is a high-ranking representative from the Right: We want a six-hour day for the elderly, the Right wants a six-hour working day for workers over 62 years of age. The game thinks this will get more people to carry on in the job. The government's own attempts are coming to the fall. Yes, right, now is the attempt here. In the setting, Right does not support the Right even requested in ours. We can only wonder about that. It's a good suggestion, Martin Engeset was out early and gave support. Right has chosen to leave that train. I'm going to go over a new theme, which, to the extent that no one has been in the yet, but as I think it's important that we are also occupied with the Storting. It's about privacy, and it's about technological developments and the different requirements we have for control and security, and the way it affects privacy. Representatives Lars Sponheim and Odd Einar Dørum raised the question of setting up a Data Protection Commission in a Document No. Eight proposals were dealt with just before the summer, and the bourgeois parties also joined. The government replied that we would give feedback to Stortinget after we had evaluated the proposal. We have. We put forward a big message about IT just before Christmas. Privacy is advocating extensive attention in that big message, and we are going to propose precisely to create such a data protection commission as Left addressed, to look at the challenges that privacy is facing today, and in the time that comes. I'm starting to look at both the mandate and the selection of people and I'm going to search the breadth of it, so that we get a broad and good social debate. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to praise the Left Party for their initiative and commitment in this area. In the last winter, the Ministry and the Data Protection Authority carried out a study on the knowledge of individuals and businesses and on privacy practices. The study showed consistently positive attitudes to the importance of privacy, but it also showed that residents have too little knowledge of their rights under the law and that businesses have too little knowledge of their obligations. The low level of knowledge of justice and duties made it necessary to take action on the part of the Ministry. We followed up the investigation with an additional promise to the Data Protection Authority, so that supervision could drive targeted information against businesses and young people in youth schools and secondary schools. The production of the information material is coming to an end, and some campaigns are coming in the new year. I have seen the material so far. In order for them to do that work, we decided to continue the strength they received in connection with the revised national budget this year, at 2 million. I am pleased that the Committee has also joined. With a good comment from a group committee in this area, I would like the Data Protection Agency to be happy with the work they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1127	The Council of State states that it is busy having a good public sector to provide the best possible services to its inhabitants. Good services depend on availability, and we're constantly getting messages from our districts saying they're having trouble reaching the government offices because they're not open at the time when people have the opportunity to use them. My question to the Council of State is then: why is the Council of State not busy expanding the opening hours of the state sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1134	It is quite wrong that the Council of State is not busy expanding the opening hours of the state sector. Whether the representative Starheim refers to Document No. The 8th proposal that we debated on Monday, December 4th, where the Right had a very clear proposal that all state companies with public access should be open until noon. 6 p.m. and specific telephone hours and so on, there was no point in suggesting that there was no overall height to the different needs of the different budgets. We see that it's not necessarily between 2:00 a.m. 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. that the need arises. On the contrary, modern people and small children's families go home, cook dinner and lay the kids, and so it's after midnight. 20:00 that the need to contact state enterprises again arises. So the most important thing we have to do is, for the first time, investigate where the need is greater, and then see if we can get something done about it, and secondly, switch to electronic solutions, which means that the representative Starheim can log into the Internet and get what he needs to do, when it suits him, and not when it suits the state level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1141	The Christian People's Party is in favour of the government's efforts to reduce working time for seniors, and we record that it is not an attempt at a general 6-hour day, but a targeted test effort to achieve a worthy senior policy and to get people to work longer – what we need in our society. We know that there are many other groups that have a residual working capacity and that should have flexible arrangements. Then is my question to the Council of State: will other groups also have such a pilot scheme, so that six-hour attempts are not about reducing working time, but about introducing some of this residual work capacity to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1149	I'm very pleased with that angle of incidence from the representative Tørersdal, because that's exactly what has been our point. When people talk about working time arrangements and a 6-hour day, they think about more leisure time. What we have, on the contrary, had as a starting point is that we need labour. We need to see if other working time arrangements can make people more at work, and that part-time work may become a full-time job, which we need very much, especially in the care sector. That's exactly what was the starting point. We have now chosen to focus on the seniors in the coming state budget and the 20 million. NOK we have received. Of course, it's because one for 20 million. Not many attempts are made, so we have to limit ourselves to a group in order to get results. It's the one. The second is that the state has a lot of people who are now equal in the vicinity of being able to get rid of AFP. We ignore the studies that there are many of those who are approaching the AFP age, who actually want to go off, but who will be able to get them just organized their working hours. So this was quite obviously a sensible group to start with. Then we'll see what future will bring with respect to other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1156	I point out that in two lines we tried to get the representative Rivamm to answer if it is such that the government has abandoned the policy of the Soria Moria Declaration regarding the renewal of the public sector. The most significant sections of the Soria Moria declaration in this area are in the configuration as a minority comment from the opposition parties. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree with the minority here or with the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1161	I don't have a problem with the content of the comment that Bent Höie refers to, but I just want to say that there's one thing missing and that's in the government party's brilliant remark about renewal a little further ahead. It is easy that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party ‘supports the Government that the renewal work will be based on the needs of its citizens and will be carried out in cooperation with the employees and their organisations. The majority consider this to be essential for the implementation of successful changes’. That is the great difference between the renewal work and the modernisation work of this government and the previous government. The previous government is running a conversion and modernisation work that pushed thousands of people out of work and into passive social security benefits. I see that Right repeats that grip now. They're going to streamline public administration and cut by 643.6 million. kr – corresponding to the number of annual works in seven average departments, i.e. 1,300 annual works. Wake up with them, with no conversion, and no sense of what they're going to do. We know where they're going. They end up on passive social security benefits, and there were 115,000 more of them under the previous government. That kind of modernisation of the public sector is not the end of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1171	I'll follow up my previous question. I believe that the Council of State thought that the proposal that had been submitted was too difficult, too rigid, and that for that reason it was not relevant to implement it. I also perceive the Council of State's response so that the Council of State is aware that there is a need to reach government offices outside the ordinary working hours. My question to the Council of State is: is the Council of State willing to do something that could make it possible to reach government offices outside the ordinary working hours, when it may be, either at the times the Council of State itself calls, or others?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1178	We're doing the renewal work, where this with opening hours and access is a very important question. We know that when it comes to the NAV budget, which is a very large budget, with which many people will need to have contact, there is work going on. One has tried to do this in such a way as to make local agreements, i.e. between municipalities and state agencies, where the opening time is one of the themes. When it comes to passports, I've talked to the Minister of Justice about matters already. The police are working here. There is now no application form by electronic means, so that one can do half the job before one arrives, and apart from the holiday season itself, one can come with the form on Friday and in principle have taken care of Monday. So in many states and in the departments, there's a lot of attention about it with opening time and access. We're going to put it in the system of renewal, which we're going to come back to more in 2007, including the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1185	When the Minister of Renewal in reply to me makes it so that conversion into the public sector leads to the transfer of public employees to passive benefits, it tells two rather serious things. One is that this government is not even able to talk internally about what is Norway's biggest challenge, namely labour shortages. The Minister of Labour has just been on the pulpit of the United Kingdom and has presented the enormous challenge that this country is facing because we lack labour in essential areas. The Minister of Renewal has not brought this about. The second Minister of Renewal obviously has not come with it, is that the people who work in the public sector are very competent people for whom private business needs. Bringing these competent people into private business will be a significant contribution to securing tax revenue, which will once again finance the community and the welfare we want in the future. When is the Government going to start talking about the biggest challenge, the lack of labour in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1194	The government's talking very well. I heard every word of what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, and we're not dissenting about anything. But what's up, and as Bent Höie obviously picked up badly, is that I'm pointing to the consequences of the way that Right converted the public sector in the previous period, when a lot of people switched on social security benefits. A Fafo report that was submitted not very long ago pointed to just how many changes were made in terms of security performance after Post and Mesta conversions, which are public settings. The right's proposal in this budget is to cut almost 650 million. NOK 1 year – NOK 1 300 added. So the Right would like to say that there is a need for private sector labour, but why didn't the Right get to convert those who were then cancelled after right-wing modernisation, and get them into the private sector, instead of flabbergasting them into social security benefits, as all the numbers and also the Fafo report show actually happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1201	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1206	The Soria Moria Declaration contains many good goals and obligations, but one commitment is in a special position: to counter a classed ethnic society. It is thus unequivocally stated which ethical code this society should be governed by. In this context, we need to see the Government's action plan on integration and inclusion. 400 million. 28 measures are good, but at the same time there is a recognition that something is wrong in Norwegian society today. A lot is about attitudes. Some are extreme, fortunately few. But when we see that a central immigrant politician in Buskerud is harassed in public by a Vigrid member, and then at home to receive killing threats to himself and the family, it has to be strongly reacted. However, the best way to prevent this is systematic work against everyday racism. It exists. This is seen in the description in the action plan of the higher incidence of unemployment, low income, health and other living conditions problems. But the important thing is that the plan then, side by side, shows how society should become more competent to take advantage of the knowledge and resources that our immigrants possess. New IMDi has a key role in implementing the plan, but not alone. It says in the proposition: the municipalities are IMDi's main target group and partners. These include the others — business, local and central government, organisations, immigrants themselves and the general population. The need to mobilise society as a whole cannot be said better. One of the main tasks of IMDi is to be the driver of change. It happens best when we have the ability to think cross-sectoral inclusion of the whole human being, where people live. In this context, I would like to put forward an idea: What if the IMDI chose one municipality as a lighthouse in the development of methodology for holistic inclusion, where new and exciting tools can be used – one pooling area where results from the use of tools can be continuously followed, where local democracy is willing to take responsibility and follow up the work closely, organise local and regional partnerships across the public, private and voluntary sectors and give the multicultural population great confidence in self-government, not just to be arranged for? That being said, I want to be even a little more bold and draw attention to my own municipality of origin, Drammen, No. 2, after Oslo, with 18 pst. non-Western immigrants. It is large enough to accommodate all challenges and nationalities, but small enough to follow the results achieved on an ongoing basis. The municipality has worked systematically with bridge construction for a long time, has active immigrant organisations, contacts with countries of origin, schools and kindergartens with up to 70 pst. Immigrants, a representative town councillor with 17 pst. immigrants, etc. I also want to highlight the International Cultural Centre that can be an exciting venue for inclusion in new ways. Now, the municipality is designing an overall set of applications for action in the action plan to show how more actions can play together. I hope someone catches the idea. If we succeed here, Norway will even be able to strengthen its reputation internationally and be much more rusty when the fight for future labour comes to an end, because we actually have something to do with people coming from far away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1223	I am amazed at some of the answers to a reply given by the Minister of Renewal in the United Kingdom, especially about the depriorities of work as our main challenge in the future. Let it be clear: Right-wing support to the Minister of Labour of the Government when he presents a shortage of labour as challenge no. 1st@item: inlistbox It was this way, in order to spend some time writing history first, that until 2003 unemployment increased. It was a combination of bad policies and bad economic conditions. The economic cycle turned around, the policy turned around, and unemployment is still falling. It's very joyful, but it naturally gives us the challenge that we have too few hands to care for the welfare of the future. It is particularly important to use the hands that are currently outside the labour market, for example. welfare services. That's why right-wing kittens, among other things. in the waiting pay scheme, which is just one of the passive receipts you can get to stand out of the labour market. So to the municipal minister, who in his speech made a few comments on the budget of the Højres and the Advance Party for the municipal sector. I find it strange that a municipal minister, among other things, says that it would ‘crack that spark’ that it would ‘kill optimism’ if both the Right and the Advance Party were to have an impact on their budget for the local economy. The difference between the local government budget and the government budget is 140 million. NOK 200 billion of a total transfer. So I'm amazed that it's possible to use expressions like "knock that spark" or "kill optimism". For the record, I think you crack branches and not sparks. It's going to be an apropos. So to the corporate tax. It is strange that on the one hand – and there the Government stands with the Right – you say that municipal economy is more than just transfers from the State. I agree with the heart. One of the things that state politicians should do to a much greater extent is that municipalities become yes municipalities, municipalities that want to attract new business, and that can be, among other things. be made to premise the above-mentioned municipalities. Therefore, it will be going in the wrong direction when the Government now wants to make the municipal share of corporation tax less than it is today. It's on poor 4.25 p.m., but the government obviously wants it even further down and even says that you want to re-evaluate the entire treasure. To get more companies to establish themselves in Norway, and to get more companies into the different municipalities, we need municipalities that have an interest, also financially, in order to get it into.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1236	I hope it is registered that Klungland is still in construction and that he is on the list of speakers. I am a little surprised that despite that there are few party representatives in the room. I'm going to focus on municipal economics and policies today. All members of the red-green parties have reason to be proud during the treatment that is taking place today. Not least those who sit and distribute the goods in the municipalities now notice that there is a total change in relation to their daily lives. So now this government spends about 18 billion dollars in two years for the municipalities. That's a lot more than the previous government suggested during the entire expansion period. And yet we see that they have more money in their budget proposals than this government has. To that, I guess it's just to say that the bourgeois parties are the best in opposition. Nevertheless, they have a budget that is not linked. If we take away the 12 billion that the bourgeois in the last period gave away most of it to the richest people in this country, we're left with $6 billion, and I can almost imagine that would have been the level of the municipalities in these two years, if there had been another government. We now have a government that prioritises the community, that uses the municipalities as a tool to improve the well-being of everyone. Because when municipalities get a better economy, it is that they get a better welfare offer. Of course, some municipalities are still struggling. Actually, I was going to tell a story about someone who always said it could be worse, but I don't get it in three minutes – the president has heard it. But it could actually be a lot worse. We are now on the way with this government to straighten out a totally shaky municipal economy from the previous period, because they would rather the rich would retain more of the funds that we have for the distribution of the goods. That's why there's reason to be proud today, and we have reason to be proud that we're on our way to Soria Moria.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1250	I have followed the debate with interest today. I am delighted to see that this government has made a further uplift in the local economy. It was necessary. I recognise that there are great differences in the economic situation in Kommune-Norway. There is therefore a need to review the income system. I look forward to receiving such feedback to Stortinget during the harvest session. It is with some wonder that I heard the representative of the Progress Party Per-Willy Amundsen call for further designation of the municipalities. When the Progress Party from this pulpit has used the entire autumn to tell us that we have to trust the local politicians, we have to show them confidence, they answer in the budget debate with an eye mark, which is a clear distrust statement. I also register that the representative Bent Höie denies that it has been starving feeding the municipalities. I fervently ask that he contact the Local Governments' Central Association, and get the documentation that shows the development of the local economy from 1994 to today. Then he will see for himself that the state of things is different. So to a few points that I think are very important to include in this debate. I would like to mention this with resource-intensive users, with whom many municipalities are struggling very hard. We were unable to maintain the level that was desired. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is asking for a review to be carried out, so that we can look at this in the context of the discussion of the municipal proposal for the spring, in 2007. That is what has been said from this pulpit: we must have predictability and long-termity in the local economy. Yes, but then we have to agree in this room to make a change of course in terms of this with consultation arrangements. We have to wind up the consultation system in favour of a purely negotiating arrangement between the Commune Confederation and the State. Where are our consultation arrangements? We have that between the doctor and the patient or between the lawyer and one who is seeking his help. There we have consultation arrangements. There's clients. Municipalities shall not be clients. They shall be equivalent partners in a future system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1265	‘Elder care action plan’ gave municipalities great freedom to adapt care for the elderly to local needs. The target was actually 25 pst. the coverage of hospital or day-care homes in relation to the number of over 80 years of age. The result was a large-scale expansion of care homes, which unfortunately are often unmanned today, while at the same time reducing the number of sick homes compared to population development. The intention of the plan was that the elderly would be able to live in owner-occupied dwellings as long as they wanted to. The problem today is that old and nursing people have no choice other than what the municipalities want to offer them at any time. Often it is the weakest without close contact with the family that does not receive a suitable offer. Many people are looking for a place to stay and are being refused. They are unable to complain. For some reason, politicians will have nothing of which to wait for a sick home. It doesn't exist. We see great variations from municipality to municipality. Unfortunately, these variations do not reflect the needs of older people in the municipality, but rather the economic priorities of each municipality. This year, too, we see examples of councillors who are promoting budget proposals for the closure of daily services and for cutbacks in necessary care services, while strengthening the cultural sector in the same municipality. These are municipalities where care services are far below the average. Where property taxes are to be introduced or increased, the threat of cuts in old age care is also used as an argument. Such a threat I could last read about in the Smälen Newspaper a few days ago, when Hobøl Municipality now chooses to introduce property taxes. So it doesn't help to blame the last government. This problem has been increasing, at least in the last 15 years, and it continues to increase. Looking back at all the plans and documents that have been written, processed and adopted in recent years, one should ask what has gone wrong, when many of its old people today live under conditions that the welfare state of Norway should not be familiar with. 10 000 new annual works capture only demographic developments over 80 years of age for the same period. When we have seen in recent years an increase in the care needs of people under 66 years of age of 4-6 pst. per 1 % years, we quickly see that annual works need to be increased by many more just to maintain the level of the day. These are numbers from the SSB and the KS. There is no goal of writing a wish list in the Soria Moria statement. An equivalent and good care for the elderly throughout the country cannot depend on local economic priorities and on the response between municipalities and the state. The current form of funding is slightly forward-looking and has proved that it does not guarantee the elderly an equivalent and satisfactory offer. Changes in the distribution of funds to municipalities will not improve the situation as long as the money for elderly care is in the framework transfers. I am absolutely sure that today's funding system is a direct reason why many people do not get the care they should have today. I believe that most municipalities would very much appreciate designing a care and care service that is tailored to the needs of those who want it, while at the same time knowing that the state pays.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1286	We have to take back the political rhetoric and the political language. We need to take political decisions that will allow us to take power back to the open political spaces. The market may be able to govern where the market is to rule, but in those areas where elected politicians have a right and a duty to rule by law and by previous decisions, where we are to rule. It must apply to all three elected levels, to local councils, to county councils and in this room. If we allow the market and market forces to gain power over the political arenas, society is moving in the opposite direction to the SV, today's government and a majority of the people want it to evolve in. Some of our political opponents believe that the market, private enterprises and organisations can take over what government has the right to governance and governance decisions in district and county municipalities in our long-term country. There's a lack of understanding of the reality that exists in District Norway. Had it not been for the Norwegian big society, with the local governments, the county councils and the Stortinget, to take the political decisions taken by the left-hand side of Norwegian politics after World War II, our country would have looked completely different. Today we have vibrant small communities with people, good, safe and modern growing conditions, a wide range of voluntary cultural workers within all genres, from revising to football, modern businesses within a wide range of sheep, goats and cows, living forest culture, factories that create values, and an infrastructure that works and will evolve further. We would not have had this in Lyngen, which is my municipality of residence, if we had not had politicians at all levels who made political decisions that made this possible. My grandchildren or my old father have no options that are real choices. Janette and Kristine have to go to Eidebakken school, and on the day my father had to need a nursing home, it's Lyngstuned Health and Care Center that's his choice. Okay, that's the reality of most people living in District Norway. I am proud to belong to a party and a government that takes us out in Building Norway seriously, that sees and hears and not least understands this, and then makes political decisions that allow Janette and Kristine to go to a good public school, and that my father, when that day may come, may have a quality of life that is worthy of our elderly and sick. This would never have solved the market in Lyngen. Should Janette, Kristine and my father have had the same opportunities as anyone else in a market-driven society, my family and I must have moved to the nearest city, and that's Tromsø. With centralisation and delocalisation, our country is raging in a relatively short time. That's why it was high time for people to get a new government at the last big elections, out of the three parties that have formed this government. This year's budget shows that we're turning the shot in the right direction. It's noticed in a positive and creative way all around the country. We're on it. The course's out. Political decisions are taken, which in turn restore the faith that politicians take responsibility and do their job. The intensity is back in Norwegian policy. We want the thousands of flowers to bloom from landing to landing. We still have three years left to relocate and further develop the Norwegian welfare state. Let's get on with it!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1307	I want to get into the regional reform. The centre party can profit from the reform process, even though regional reform does not mean anything but a change of name. It has been said by many that the county council is rotting. There will be an ever lower turnout. In some states it's down to 40 pst. digestion. As the municipal minister himself says, and as has been mentioned in the pulpit several times today: the county council is confused. The newspaper writes in the lead, and then we should listen to it: ‘Do we need three political levels?’ – in a country that is no larger than a city in London. Do we need three levels of popular governance? Is it going to be better local democracy? One of the main reasons for strengthening the regions in relation to today's county must be to move power closer to the population, to strengthen the people's rule and to strengthen local democracy. This, however, has little faith from local politicians in strengthening local democracy. There is little doubt that the municipalities are strong in the population's consciousness. Why should the third level be kept alive artificially? Why not strengthen the primary municipalities and working conditions of local politicians, which are as close to the population as possible? The municipal politicians throughout the country see themselves competent to take over power from the county council. The main motive of the Government is to crush the dream of the Advance Party and the Right of only two levels and not to strengthen the primary municipality, which should be the main motive. The central party politician Vedum spoke to the Newspaper, as part of the regional debate: we must remove the title of county. "I want to bury the title of the county." Yes, then you have good motives. The county has not been successful since it was established 30 years ago. The county council is now to be given a new reindeer by giving it a new name and giving it a supremacy responsibility, for example. regional planning. As stated in the message: «Regional plans shall be drawn up in close cooperation with municipalities». This is what local politicians are going to experience as an overrun. As I said, the Progress Party believes that the regional vision has crumbled, that the county council has played its role, and that the power must now be transferred to the people – yes, to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1323	First of all, the previous speeches and the regional reform. The representative Thomsen and I are from the same state, from Akershus. In Akershus, two municipalities, Asker and Bærum, with 150 000 people received an offer for a free-dominant attempt and to take over secondary schools, to which they said no after a long time of thinking. It would be more expensive to administer such a solution for the two municipalities with 150 000 people than it is for the current county municipality to do, and they could not guarantee that the quality of the secondary school was at the same level as it becomes through a county municipal solution. When two municipalities like Asker and Bærum can't see themselves serving to take on secondary education, which is one of the keys to the municipalisation of the counties, I wonder how to deal with all the other municipalities. I'm glad we have a regional reform now. I am pleased with the message that has been made, although I also see that there is going to be a good deal of work to do, both here in the house and out in the counties, to put in place the solutions that give us powerful regions and the counties to which the evolutionists put up the message. Among other things, proper rounds have to be carried out in relation to the environmental and agricultural departments of the county and ensure that they become part of the development work to be carried out by the elected region. So the job is there, but we're not going to debate it today. What I really asked for was another aspect of the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It's about the Government's impoverishment. It is indicated in the budget that 160 million have been added. kr, which is assumed to increase the economic social assistance rates for which the municipalities are responsible. This is part of the poverty package contained in the Government Action Plan. These rates shall be increased by 5 pst. It will be within the guidance rates that come from the state at Christmas. It is important that the municipalities follow up, but individual decisions are needed in each municipality in order for this to be done in full. I hope we will all remind the municipalities of the importance of this happening to the fullest extent possible. It is also important that municipalities ensure that social assistance rates that neighbouring municipalities are more equal than today. There is often a degree of unworthiness for social assistance clients to switch between municipalities, depending on the rates. Then I'm also a hot spokesperson because it's the municipalities that's going to be responsible for fixing the social assistance rates. Local discretion and competence are needed in this work, but it is important that the rates are raised in many places and that the messages now coming from our side are followed up by the adoption of the budget of the year. I see that this is now happening in many municipalities. It's a positive development, and we'll remind them of it, so this is going really well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1334	It is amazing that we in the Progress Party are being attacked because we stand for values and want to maintain essential Norwegian values, such as the freedom of the individual and the right to say, believe and believe what each of us wants – fundamental democratic rights. Then it becomes amazing to hear the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande from the Workers' Party say that you have to use what you have in the 'nepa'. I'm assuming that's how to use what you have in the Nepa, which is the essential. I want to draw attention to our relationship with Russia and Russians. Every year, Norway spends a dozen million dollars to promote people’s people’s cooperation between Finland and Russia in the first row. That's great. But at the same time, we experience that the UDI doesn't want to find a solution for a mother who has one wish here in life – to be given an opportunity to care for her own daughter, who is a Norwegian citizen, and who was so unfortunate that last year she had severe brain bleeds and needs 24 hours of care and care. If the decision is made to the UDI standing and the mother is thrown out, this is heartbroken towards a population living and living in an area where good neighborhood has existed as long as you remember. A mother is deprived of the right to care for her own daughter. I tried to get the Finnmark bench with me to solve this problem if possible. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party's representatives refused to sign on such a simple matter as getting to a meeting with the Council of State. We see that mulla Krekar, as the UN refers to as a terrorist, walks around like a free man in Norway. At the same time, the Council of State wants to throw out a Russian mother who has a desire to care for her own daughter. As I said in the introduction, it's important how to use what you have in ‘nepa’. How are the Russians received when they arrive in Norway, after receiving a visa, after an eternally long waiting period? First, Norway has a number of unnecessary and self-imposed rules for issuing visas to Russian citizens — black windows with a one-way view, which give the impression that a person arrives in an interrogation room and not an open Western society, no sign wishing to welcome him to Norway, or any other information. In addition, we have a number of specific entry rules for Russians in Storskog, which are directly discriminatory, compared to other border crossings in Europe. If we are to get a North-Area bet that has a real value in the future, we need to ease the situation so that Russians can travel to Norway and the North can travel to Russia in a much simpler way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1350	The President has doubts as to whether the word 'nope' should be inserted as a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1353	I agree with Amundsen that there is a value struggle going on. It's nothing new. History is the result of fighting between different interests. So the fact that there is a value struggle is going on, we know. But the darkest parts of history are characterized by a value struggle in which the majority deliberately played in relation to minorities. It's the most unpleasant and darkest parts of our history. It's not right, as Amundsen says, that there are majority values, and then there are some minorities that conflict with these majority values. It is the Progress Party that creates this picture. We have different values and different values among the majority, just as there are different values among the minorities. So the picture that one here is trying to draw, that there's a struggle of values going on between us and them, we know from the story, and we don't have to repeat it for a reason. It is a value struggle when the majority try to create their own rules, laws and regulations that are intended to directly affect minorities. It is a value struggle when the Promskrit party from this pulpit and also in the evening post today says that Muslim communities must speak Norwegian, unless they are allowed to receive state subsidies. I expect that a similar demand will be made to German and American communities here in Oslo, that they too should speak Norwegian to their communities, who speak mostly German and English. It's a campaign of value when the kind of demands are made. It is a value struggle when, in a question to the Council of State, the Advance Party describes a situation with a 28-year-old African rapist – an African rapist. It's not many times we've heard from this pulpit that it's a 28-year-old Norwegian rapist. It was used as an argument. This is a continuous battle of values. Value struggle goes between those who are now being tried as a majority and those who are being produced as a minority. We're not going to be able to draw up the limit that the Progress Party is trying to draw up. We know it from history, and we simply don't want it into our policy. I sincerely hope that in the future we will discuss what our values are. It's a fundamental value, at least for us who belong to the left-hand side of Norwegian politics, that we are all equal and have an equal human dignity, regardless of whether we belong to a majority or a minority. I would like this to be a little bit obnoxious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1366	Several of the representatives of the red-green parties have been up and presented a presentation of the development of the local economy that does not match the government's own documents. I was invited to contact KS for statistics. That's not necessary. It keeps looking up the state budget and the national budget for that statistics. It also keeps contacting or using information from the Technical Calculation Committee, which is the Government's sample, just to look at these figures. This year’s growth will also deliver good results in 2004 and 2005. According to TBU, financial freedom has significantly improved and the need for operational adaptation has been reduced. It is the development of the local economy for two years under the Bondevik government and one year under the red-green government. The government's own number, page 74 of the national budget, tells exactly the same story. It also tells the story that the 2007 scheme is the weakest since 2003, which is also part of the story. Soon the government parties, and not least the Council of State, must decide whether to deal with their own documents or with their old rhetoric from the election campaign. I would strongly encourage the Council of State to pay tribute to the rhetoric and follow the documents she presents to the Stortinget. The Council of State was also concerned that the alternative model of the Right would lead to the disappearance of over 3,000 local politicians. I don't know where she got those numbers from, but it'll disappear 728 local politicians with this year's model, the ones chosen in the county councils. But if it is that the Center Party assesses the value of local democracy based on the number of local politicians, then we deeply disagree on what is the value of local democracy. Of course, it's a value for people to get involved, but if we're going to get people involved, they also need something to engage in. This is where this government's impoverishment of the Municipality of Norway takes place, because the whole motivation for the current Council of State in the context of the administrative reform is to ensure that municipalities do not have any more tasks. There can be no other reason why she rejects all proposals made by the National Government of the KS in connection with the regional reform to transfer new tasks to the municipality. She eliminates financial incentives for aggregation, does not introduce task differentiation, nor does she introduce secondary education, not research in business and rural development, not in clinical veterinary services, not in the management of local protection areas, not in any county roads that classify them as municipal roads, not in the mini- or micro-power plant concession. All these are the demands of the KS Land Board on new tasks they wish to transfer to municipalities in the context of regional reform. It proves that the centre party in this case is the municipality's worst enemy, because it degrades the municipalities in terms of tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1384	We have heard and experienced a bit of each other in this debate. At least we haven't experienced any overall opposition, that's for sure. However, we have experienced the strong resistance of the right side to the popular regions of the future – without having heard anything about how to create a municipal structure, so large and robust municipalities that they can take over the significant task portfolio that we presented in the communication last Friday. We don't get to hear about that – ergo is not contradicted that you are willing to use coercion. The municipalities do not want this themselves, and thus are forced the only procedure. Then I think the Right Party and the Advance Party should say it right out. I really expect more from the Right than from the Advance Party – for several reasons. I think it is a pity that the Right is sitting completely on the sideline in such an important case for the Norwegian administration. Ingrid Willoch, rapporteur candidate for the Right in Fredrikstad, state politicians and former staging representative, announced that this was going to be a plea. She read the message and said in an interview in Fredriksstad Blad that this was not so bad anyway, and that there are many possibilities here. She's blowing the whistle. I think it must also be allowed for the Right-People of the Stortinget to take a more constructive position after reading the message. The party of progress is a big party. It is therefore quite serious that the Progress Party has such a small heart for the whole country. State Council Haga is quite right in saying that the Progress Party is taking the spark from District Norway. She also mentioned Right in the same sling. I don't want to say exactly that the Right appears to be proactive in this way, but the Progress Party is absolutely a mess here. They're 1 130 million kittens. in the specific regional and regional policy instruments. It means money for corporate development grants, start-up grants, money for business environments and site development. It is also about giving a little extra to small communities and the other vulnerable areas in Norway. These are areas where it is clear that it is appropriate to have a regional level that can review municipal borders and actively pursue district policies and create the tailor-made seam to succeed, based on the local advantages that are around.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1394	The issue of regional reform has been the subject of today's debate. The communication has just been presented, and the Stortinget will have a good opportunity to discuss the reform in months to come. The Christian People's Party believes that this debate is becoming important, because, in our opinion, the Government has presented a message that has not concluded in relation to the scope of tasks to be transferred from the state to a regional elected government. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal for reform by the Government does not go far enough, and we will therefore contribute through our work here in the United Kingdom to get even more extensive tasks transferred from the state to a popular government, this in order to strengthen local democracy and bring decisions closer to the people. The Progress Party has made a strong attack on the reform in the debate, and it is no surprise. But some of the statements have to be commented on. The Progress Party said in the debate today that we do not need three elected levels in Norway, because we are a country no larger than a city in London. Yes, it may be true that the population is no more than it is in a part of London. But precisely because we are a country that does not look like a city in London — not having the same density and proximity and concentration of people, but on the contrary, the opposite of a city in London in terms of size and housing patterns — we need a system that ensures the possibility of using the differences in Norway, the so-called regional advantage. Just because coastal industrial development is something other than domestic industrial development, precisely because there are fjords and mountains and distances between people in Norway, we need three elected levels. There may not be any need for that in London, but the Christian People's Party wants three levels of government because it allows for a business development where one can see areas of the country as a whole and rule after that. This reform should be more than a shattered or realized dream of political parties. It should be about what we can achieve at a regional level, namely to see business development and other cross-sectoral developments in culture, industry and transport. If we get the whole problem out to the regions, we can get things we didn't do before, because the county had too few tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1405	The representative Ib Thomsen quoted from the announcement of the regional level that regional development will take place in close cooperation with the municipalities, and if I understood him correctly, that was proof of how superfluous this was. I can tell you that this model has been used in Østfold for many years, not only between the county and the municipalities, but also the county has been involved in developing, for example. land transport plans for parts of the county and for the development of the county plans. It has worked very well and has been very useful both for the county level and for the municipalities. It's a model that it's worth recommending. There is no doubt that many have created expectations that have not been fully realistic, in relation to what is to be transferred from state to regional level, both among state politicians and through some studies from the CS system. But this did not become a stomach job or a political one, as the representative Hagebakken pointed out with the interview with Ingrid Willoch in Eastfold, who had thus expected much less than it was. A realistic approach shows that the tasks proposed are those that should be at the heart of the task or that are necessary to do the main task, namely regional planning and development. I believe that those who believe you can do without the county council and a regional level would quickly discover – if we removed it – that there was a need here that was unmet and that had to be solved. The structural alternative is, as has been said, large municipalities – so large that no large number of municipalities in this country, no matter how it was put together, would have developed in that way towards the local level. So a small note in relation to what, in fact, is today's demand from the Progress Party for immigrants, that now only Norwegian is to be spoken in mosques and churches. It wasn't very exciting, because in the Netherlands the idea was to ban languages other than Dutch in all public spaces. It would be good for the tourist industry, I think. This is the Janus face of the Advance Party. Because what do we hear when they're in Spain? Well, the Spanish have to learn Norwegian in order to be able to take good care of the Nordics when they get older, in Spain. Here at home, the Spanish will learn Norwegian, where they will also learn Norwegian, but the Norwegians will not learn Spanish to live in Spain. Therefore, Poles should not experience Mass in the Catholic Church in their own language, if the Advance Party gets what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1416	There has been a diverse and complex debate. I'll just sum it up with a few points. One line has gone between diversity and what I call a fold. What's incredible is that the so-called Liberal Party for Progress stands for a simple policy both in relation to national minorities – common and southern – and in relation to what kind of society we should have in terms of immigration. In fact, they have said that they can imagine a system of state inspectors to control public religious practice in Norway. It's amazing and scary to sit and listen to. It's the one division line that's been pretty clear. The other has gone between government and local democracy. Some of us believe that the local sense is pretty well distributed across the country, and that it's better that one governs locally than that we should sit and centralize here in Oslo. That is why we have presented an administrative reform that facilitates good local processes, where local and regional politicians can jointly find good solutions, rather than the directives leaving the state, and that we must have a massive community merger as a result of having no intermediate level. It's also what makes us so fundamentally disagree with the representative Thomsen, because the vice-president of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, has said that he wants 150 municipalities. If we calculate it, it's going to be approx. 7 000 fewer local politicians and 700 fewer regional politicians in Norway – 7 700 fewer people to contribute to a joint effort to make our country a little better, a little more diverse, and to be able to promote good development anywhere. The third dividing line seems to me to have been between decentralization and centralization. Where today's government parties have faith in decentralised solutions, believe that we are going to have a good population development throughout Norway, that it is right to use funds to get good population development across Norway, the one-time Progress Party, the Progress Party, the State Party, wants to cut all funds for rural development. In my own country, we have reintroduced a differentiated employer's fee. We've had a historical tax reduction, but to those areas of the county that haven't received it, the government parties and the other parties want to provide compensation for it, so that they can bring about good nutrition development even in those areas that haven't been reintroduced the lower tax. The Progress Party, on the other hand, does not want those areas that did not receive a lower fee to be compensated for it in order to be able to pursue an active industrial policy. For example, in Solør in Hedmark, they will have less opportunities to pursue an active and good industrial policy with the structure of the Progress Party than with our approach. It's the third dividing line – between decentralisation and centralisation. In sum, I think we have had a good debate. We have managed to get clear dividing lines, but I am startled by the views expressed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1431	After hearing parts of this debate, you might be able to wait in suspense at the proposal of the Progress Party to ban speaking in tongues, because it is probably a language that many of us may not understand. What's being said, I don't know, but I've never actually seen it as a big threat. I think this demonstrates the simplicity of the Advancement Party, as the representative, Mr Vedum, said. The reason I took the floor is that the Stortinget – and I also know the government apparatus – has today visited an organisation representing some of the poorest in Norway. They have given us a poor man and asked us to think about those who have the least in Norway. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the safety network for those who do not have income. For the first time in very many years, this government has adjusted the guidance standards for social assistance according to the price increase and added to 5 pst. on it. Then we've at least taken again half of what was left of the governments before us, who didn't adjust these rates at all. But it is up to the municipalities to follow this up. It becomes extremely important that the Government follow this up to the municipalities, with the most heartfelt calls, and also that the parties that are now in government follow up this responsibility locally. There are two important things that I will then make aware of. The first is that the Health and Social Directorate has reviewed the practice of municipalities. It turns out that many municipalities require social clients to cover medical expenditure under the standard of living, contrary to the guidelines given. It will be very important to correct it so that the guidelines are followed. In addition, this government has provided free teaching material in high school. For some courses this can be given as a scholarship. Then it is very important to ensure that the scholarship money also benefits the poorest families of children, so that they are not subjected to a curtailment for the scholarship money that everyone else now receives. We have been reminded today that the increase we have achieved – sail if I am very happy about it – is small. That's it, and I think we're all going to admit that it is. But it is then very important that the bet that the government has made in this area, actually turns out in practice, in everyday life, and that these hundreds of bills get where they're going. I encourage the Government to help make it a reality, and then in the three government parties we will also take that responsibility and ensure that our colleagues do the job locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1444	First, just a few words to the last time Andersen's representative addressed the understanding of how the indicative social assistance rates have to function in relation to the new secondary school grant scheme in terms of free learning material. I fully agree that the indicative social aid rates need to be clarified precisely in view of what Karin Andersen here pointed to. What made me take the floor was the post from Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, the representative of the Progress Party from Finnmark. Fredriksen said in his speech that the Council of State, i.e. I, has rejected an application for a visa for a Russian citizen. It must be because of a misunderstanding when you claim it. As is well known, the fact is that no individual matter lies with the Council of State, no individual matter is in the department. General visa matters are always dealt with in the UDI and complaints are handled by the Department of Foreign Affairs. Under Norwegian law, as the Council of State in such general visa matters, I have no opportunity at all, no access to instructions in individual cases. So it is obviously wrong when it is claimed that I have rejected an application. I have not dealt with any such application, and do not have access to it. But what is, of course, possible, if you think that Norwegian visa policy is wrong – and it must be under the intervention of Fredriksen – is that you can freely promote legislative amendments in this room on a more liberal visa policy. There would be an interesting development if the Progress Party made such proposals, but that is, of course, the possibility there. It is difficult to understand Fredriksen’s observations in a way other than as a statement that Norwegian visa policy in general is too strict and too difficult to understand through the treatment of Russian citizens. But, as I said, we do not have our own visa policy for Russians. We have a visa policy. If this is too strict, I now expect a speedy proposal from the Progress Party for liberalisation. And of course, we're going to treat such proposals properly and thoroughly, as we always do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1451	The debate has taken a slightly different angle than it might have been. We came into the administration reform, and that was interesting. I think we should start the initial exercises – or the knee-caps, to say it in Northern Norway – before we get that reform up to real debate later on. The representative Bent Höie is ramming up a lot of things that are not part of the proposal. I'm going to be honest enough to admit that I would have liked to have seen more tasks transferred to the regional level. However, if there is a majority in this Chamber to implement a change and a strengthening of the regional level, it will be interesting to see whether the Right will propose the transfer of non-contributory tasks. I think it would be supported by many representatives in this Chamber. What is important to take with it is the recognition that Norway is one of the strongest centralised countries in Europe. We should do something about that. If we don't manage to get everything transferred, we can at least start a process to get important tasks out closer to the population. Some tasks are so large that they should not be placed at the municipal level. Some tasks may be carried out from a central level and down to an advantage. Now we're not going to start a debate about the hospitals, but there were some parties that wanted the hospitals hospitalized at the central level. I don't know if we can define it as a good reform. The county councils were able to shut up because they were driving too badly. We're going to get back to the bottom of it, but I'm asking for a proper debate on the governance reform. I'm asking you to be thoroughly involved in what happened in 1976, and what was negative about the reform that was carried out at the time. Then back to the local economy: some macro considerations are referred to in the budgetary comments from the Government, and the conclusion is drawn that the Central Party is the worst enemy of the municipalities. That's interesting. If I am not mistaken, the Central Party is one of the parties that has the most municipal rapporteurs, and it is a little paradoxical to choose a rapporteur who is actually on the enemy side. I have long seagoing times in both municipal policy and county policy. I have felt that there was a positive attitude towards the regional level among business people and among municipal politicians, so we are going to have an exciting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1466	Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice and gets the floor for a brief comment
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1469	I feel the need to arrest the representative from SV when he comes up with what I would call historical clues, clues about parallels in history that are not at all in the context and the theme we discuss when we talk about value challenges in so-called multicultural society. It must be allowed to discuss and debate positions that are totally unacceptable in society, without trying to tie their mouths to it by making the kind of suggestions that the representative Rikham should hold for good. In doing so, a debate is being held which is most relevant and which should, to the most extent, be taken not least in this Chamber, because there are challenges to immigration that we must take seriously in relation to the values that people take with them when they choose to move and settle in Norway. I don't accept orwellish 'newspeak' to limit the ability of others to express themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1478	Bent Höie has also had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1481	Obviously, the representative Samuelsen could not have gotten what I said, because the list of tasks that I framed was tasks that KS wanted to transfer to the municipalities. I would be very happy if his post was an expression that the Center Party will support the Right's proposal to transfer more tasks to the municipalities instead of to the regions. I can promise Samuelsen that the Right in the context of the processing of the message will present an alternative arrangement that gives the municipalities more power than anyone in the government parties has dreamed of. But I'm afraid that Samuelsen is going to be all alone in the Central Party if he supports this proposal, because it would really be to give local democracy an influence if one delegate this power to the local democratic bodies, namely the municipalities, which are uprooted in the population, that have confidence in the population. Then I turned to district plans in Eastfold. I think it is fully possible to create common spatial and social plans without the county rapporteur leading the meetings. I think the rapporteurs are doing that job very well alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1490	I have to answer the State Council on the visa issue, because without addressing the visa issue, there are a number of measures that can be easily implemented. You can, for example: provide information signs in Russian, welcoming Norway. You can print out material, where there is information for Russians coming to Norway. You can get passport inspectors who want people to be welcomed. You can remove the black windows, so you don't get the feeling that you're going to some institution. You can expand the number of parking spaces, and there are a number of practical things you can do. But what's important to take over and understand is that after the iron carpet fell and the border was opened, so much has happened in the north that yesterday's rules are not sustainable today. They're no longer usable. 10 pst. of the population of South Varanger are Russians, and it goes without saying that the problem that you're up here with a single person will not be the last one. You'll get more and more of these kinds of tasks, and then you can't deal with a code from yesterday that doesn't work anymore. In addition, our main economic interests are located in the north, related to oil, gas and fisheries. It is then necessary to take over and understand that the legislation we have today needs to be changed. The rules we have today are too rigid. I find it sad to hear that a councillor, who is the chief executive, says that he has no authority to do anything. Then I want to say that I have a big problem understanding why you've gone to the stage of becoming a politician – if you don't have the opportunity to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1500	Social violence Vedum has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1503	No one here has wanted to put a lid on the debate. I am pleased that this debate is coming, and that we are getting the kind of scary attitudes that the representative Amundsen makes visible when he wants state religious inspectors in different congregations in Norway. But he can't take on the traditional progress party and be offended if we take up the policy and make visible the attitudes that we fundamentally disagree with. That's exactly what we've been doing today. We have raised the debate to bring this forward, to show how meaningless it is, and what kind of social attitudes form the basis for that kind of thinking. That's what we want, and that's why I'm glad that the representative Reivham dares to draw a little long lines and dare to be a little clear when it comes to turning down the kind of thinking that the representative Amundsen made himself the spokesman for. I hope that more people will see that the solutions of the Progress Party will create more conflicts, more trouble and more trouble, and that fewer will therefore vote for them gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1510	Rolf Rikham has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short post, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1513	In my post, I confirmed Amundsen's statement that there is a struggle for value, and that it has been going on up through history. So Amundsen and I agree that this power struggle is going on. But the fight is not going on between particular ethnic groupings — between ethnic majority, if any, and a lot of ethnic minorities. That's not where the divorces go. That's what's the point, because too often we've seen someone construct that kind of dividing line -- that's where the power struggle goes -- and then we've got a stigmatisation and a political development that we don't want. That's what it was important for me to warn against. I also gave examples of how a person can handle minorities and say that we have to control the religious activity that is going on there, and it has to be done in Norwegian, while in the case of others who are in the same situation and also use a different language, it is not at all that they have to speak Norwegian in their communities. What's the danger is you're starting to stigmatize minorities. And that's what I warned you about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1520	I regret to extend the debate, but I believe that there must be some honesty in what is said from the Chair. I have never said that we cannot do anything about Norwegian visa practices, so there is a wrong representation of what I have said. What I've said is that if we want to change Norwegian visa policy, we have to do it by law and regulation. And we can do that. The representative Fredriksen is free to propose legislative changes at any time, and ask the government to make regulatory changes in relation to what, according to him, is referred to as a regulation – i.e. law and regulation – that is clearly out of date. With the level of the opinions of the representative Fredriksen, I expect proposals to amend the law and regulation on Norwegian visa policy to be made as soon as possible. I have a duty to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about citizens from a non-Schengen country who are going to get a visa to the Schengen country of Norway, so what we are talking about has quite a lot of consequences. But you're free to do this. As I said, I expect us to have that kind of proposal, so that we can make it clear in which areas the Progress Party wants to liberalise Norwegian visa policy. So it's wrong to say that I said that you can't do anything. You can do something, but you can't instruct in individual matters. It will also be a crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1500]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1547	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1510]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1563	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1579	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1595	The Progress Party supports all proposals submitted in the proposal, with the exception of cap. 634 heading 21. First of all, however, I would like to point out that, both during this year's debate and during the last year's debate on waiting pay and daily pay, the government parties have gone along with the draft budget of the Progress Party. Yes, there was no way how irresponsible these proposals were, and they would hit the beneficiaries. I assume that the government parties, based on the statements they made on the budget of the Progress Party, will vote against the reduction in waiting wages and, not least, against the severe reduction in daily allowances of DKK 1.4 billion. This reduction brings the daily money allocation down to the level proposed by the Progress Party for the 2006 budget, which the government parties called unsolvable and what is worse. The real reason why I took the floor in this case is the case. 634 with underlying items. There it is clearly stated that we have not achieved the objectives we had set to get more people with a disability out in work, which is also dissatisfied with the Government. 1200 fewer than the planned space. And not enough of that, the failure in getting more untrained into work, is significant, which the Government also regrets. There is therefore a need to do something about this. The Progress Party therefore proposes to launch an information campaign in which both the FFO and the Norwegian Handicap Federation are actively involved. For the Progress Party, it is particularly important that those with some handicap receive work organisation so that they get regular work. With a campaign where the organisations who know where the shoe prints are responsible for the management will be able to inform employers in a much more effective way about what is going on and what arrangements the state is involved in financing. The same applies to the poor results referred to in the proposition in the case of no more failure to return to work, in whole or in part. Here too, organizations must enter. But much more should also be required to test whether a person is able to return to work and to what extent. Let it be clear that not everyone can or should go to work. But if one were able to make greater use of the resources of the labour force of the part that receives disability and can participate in the labour market, one could have given those who have no opportunity to participate in the labour market a better life through a good boost. In its issue of ‘Well-being’, issue 8, 2006, there is an article on the state’s ability to employ people with disabilities. It's a dark reading. Two of them have been able to employ — two of them — and one of them in the ‘our’ department. It is both regrettable and deplorable that the government is not doing better than this. What becomes tragic in this is that the red-green government, which imposes all kinds of demands on private business through laws and regulations, is itself the worst in the class. We have a committee leader, who I think has a sincere desire to help those who have a disability, who is one of the most eager to make demands on private business and private individuals for inclusion. I expect the committee leader to come up here and criticize the government for the delete work they have done in this field. This only shows that the country is not the best place to implement such measures. Often, private business is often ahead of the state. Overall, this shows the enormous need for implementing the campaigns we have proposed. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the item where this is proposed has the sub-title «can be transferred». This means that the campaign can be continued until the money is spent in 2007. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1614	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1617	At first, I think I have to draw the attention of the representative Kenneth Svendsen to the fact that not everyone who goes by the name of the disabled person is disabled. They're a lot more. The representative takes up the situation in NAV in the last six months. The government, the state council and the majority have also said that we look very seriously at what has happened there. We are not satisfied with what has been achieved in the building. Action has now been put in place to bring the level of action up to the level expected for Christmas, and to achieve the objectives set by the Storting and the Government. It's very important. This is a concern and an attitude on which the Progress Party is not alone, but which I believe is completely cross-political, and which we all share. There is no doubt that NAV needs to have a pressure on their work so that they are able to help more of those who are out of work today. That means that you have to qualify people for the jobs that are available. Sometimes it takes time, but at least you have to get started and make sure you use the resources that you have at your disposal. So the representative is taking the order to launch a campaign now at the end of the year. It may well be a sympathetic idea, but it is probably simply not feasible in this short period of time. It's quite possible to come back to that in the future. I fully agree with the intention that more people have to become better at employing people with different types of disabilities. The representative Svendsen is completely wrong when he believes that I have applied a lot of rules to the private business and let the public go free. On the contrary. The representative Svendsen must have been quite different from where I have been, because I have, on the contrary, agreed that the public must go ahead. The article in the magazine «Welfahrd», to which the representative refers, clearly shows that there is a piece left to go. At least some steps have been taken in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. In addition to this, the Ministry of Renewal has taken the initiative and adopted a trainee scheme for young people with disabilities, and it will now be in all departments. In addition, in the context of a case to be dealt with later today in the case of sick pay, funds have been made available for NAV to have budgetary resources and resources, both on the ordinary means and on the means for people with disabilities, in order to get more people with disabilities into work. I believe that the state and the public must do this, and they should go ahead. Here the state has a long way to go. The State has an action plan in which they have an objective that of all new jobs, 5 pst. be a disabled person and it is an objective that the State and the State authorities have to take seriously and implement. Then I think there are many changes in attitude that need to be put in place. I don't think this is primarily about money in the budget, but it's about attitude changes and an employer's policy that ensures that those with a disability of some kind, or a disability, are assessed based on their qualifications and knowledge, not on an attitude that either believes that people are more ill than they are, or that it becomes practically difficult to implement it. There I agree with the representative Svendsen that there is absolutely reason to criticize the public employers, but there are also some private people who have a long way to go before this becomes an equal labour market for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1632	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1648	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1657	In this Document, No: The 8th proposal from the representatives of Rytman, Lien, Solvik-Olsen and Andersen of the Progress Party asks the Government to submit a case on the protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell for Stortinget. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment recommends that this proposal be rejected, while the members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment support the proposal. In the following, I will base the majority's position and expect the minority to present its proposal. The majority of the Committee points out that Norway has an international responsibility for protecting areas of protection. Pursuant to the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, the King has been given decision-making powers to allocate an area to the national park, landscape or nature reserve respectively. This Decision authority also includes provisions relating to the care and use of the site. The same provisions also apply to the law on game, cultural memory and the law on inland fishing. The law allows such decisions to take place only after all relevant bodies have been consulted through a local and central consultation. Responsibility for the adoption of final boundaries of protection areas and associated protective regulations has been conferred on the King of State Council. On this basis, the majority of the Committee would recommend that the proposal be rejected. I also believe that the line we have in such matters is well-informed parliamentary practice from previous years. During the recent budgetary procedure, the Ministry of the Environment informed the Government that it would decide on the level of protection of Trillemarka–Rollagsfjell in 2006 and that the Stortinget would be brought before it on a proposal to finance the protection of the area in question. The size will therefore have the opportunity to address the economic effects of the protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. We are now very close to the turn of the year, but I expect the Council of State to remain firm on its schedule. With this in mind, I would like to recommend to the Committee that the document be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1672	This Document No 8:12 proposal for the protection of Trillemarka–Rollagsfjell is now submitted to Stortinget to enable Stortinget to promote its view on possible protection. I also think that the rapporteur gave a good account of how to deal with this in line with previous guidelines for dealing with such cases. There's probably a different view in the individual parties of how, what and where to protect, and we have our international obligations. But I think it's especially important here to look at what was said in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007 by the Ministry of the Environment, where it is clear that the Government will decide on the scope of protection for Trillemarka–Rollagsfjell in 2006, and then the Stortinget will have a new case from the Government in 2007 with proposals, among others. for financing and nature reserves. That proposal will come here, but it is a financing proposal and, as we have said in the past, it is the King of the Council of States who will set the final limits for the provisions on the area of protection and the care it should be here. That decision shall be taken by the King of the Council of States. Such a decision also has a framework, how it should be understood and how relevant interests should be heard. The issue of the presentation of protection decisions for the Storting was also raised earlier, in the previous period, in the context of the protection plan for the Setesdal Vesthei-Ryfylkeheiene. I know that very well. It was Document No. 8:92 for 1995-1996. Then the procedures for dealing with such proposals were drawn up, as I said earlier. From the Labour Party we stand firm on the procedure that was drawn up at the time. That is also why we say from our side that there is no reason now to derogate from the procedure that was withdrawn at the time. That is why we are now also going into the majority to which the rapporteur referred today: Document No. The 8 proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1685	Let me say that the Advance Party strongly disagrees with the general protections of the Government, and in particular we are dissatisfied that the Government has not embraced with open arms the initiative shown by the municipalities and the landowners in Trillemarka. I'll come back to this. But let me first say that although I don't think there is much respect for the policy of the Government in protective matters, there is considerable respect for the fact that the Council of State, Mr Bjørnøy, has taken the time to travel around and visit the areas that are being hit, and see the people who are being hit, in the eyes. It says respect. But then it's strange that the state council gets feedback out in the districts, doesn't sink in. In this context, I would like to remind you that when we point out that Trillemarka has qualities that are worth caring for, these are qualities that have arisen in a cultural landscape in dialogue and interaction between humans and nature. These are the people the state councils have met on their travels in Buskerud, and I would say that there is reason to place decisive emphasis on the views they come with. Despite a very generous offer from landowners and municipalities, if you do not choose to go into the voluntary solution, this will be a clear signal to the population throughout Utmarks-Norway that it is not worth managing forest and land in a way that is suitable for maintaining biodiversity. I would remind you that the voluntary initiative protects 100 000 targets, of which between 30 000 and 40 000 target forests. It also implies that 95 pst. of all the red lists found in the area will be protected. So it's not like the other 5 pst. will disappear from the area even if their habitat is not protected. The field is not protected today, and the species are now there. What, then, does the majority seem to believe that these species will almost automatically disappear if you don't protect the area? I do not understand that, and it is extremely poor in the speeches in the debate on the Ministry of the Environment budget, from the representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and Ola Borten Moe, where they explained the importance of the administration tradition for the Central Party and for the Government. If the administration tradition is so important to the Central Party, it will be ensured that it is the municipal initiative that is being implemented. The safest way to achieve this is to ensure that the size and design of the protection is presented to the Stortinget for real treatment. If the Government chooses to reject the municipal initiative, this will be a manifest breach of the election promises also from the Workers' Party. This would mean that there is a significant majority in this room who really want to strengthen the work of ensuring the diversity of nature by supporting the municipal initiative – a significant majority that is overrun by vulnerable SVs, who get the protection of Trillemarka in exchange for some horse trade in the Government. So this case is about so much more than Trillemarka. When the Progress Party chose to lift this debate into the Chamber, it was also because we wanted a fundamental debate on how much protection the Government can carry out without the Stortinge getting the cases submitted for consideration. In this context, I recall that the Water Resource Act states that all river protection should be presented to the Stortinget. When the Storting adopted the Water Resource Act, it was far enough prudent to ensure that the government could not only scan and choose with our important hydropower resources. The consequence is that the protection of even the smallest water strand must be adopted in the Storting. But forest protection in many hundreds of millions of classes, no there shall be no perception of the Storting! To use an expression I'm sure the centre party also understands: this is not a matter of intervention. Now it is that the Storting has actually done a considerable amount of work in connection with several protection plans. One of these is the reporting of coniferous forest protection, another is the National Park Plan. In line with the latter plan, yesterday the Directorate for Nature Management sent out a proposal to protect Skardsfjella-Hyllingsdalen in the South-Trøndelag. This has been said by Stortinget to be between 100,000 and 150 000 targets. Now the Directorate of Nature Management says it should be over 300,000 targets. This has previously been said by the Council of State that she is familiar with. So it's not enough for the Storting to be deprived of the opportunity to have a sense of protection. It is also true that once the Storting has clearly stated that 150000 targets are to be protected in the South Trøndelag, the Government will have the opportunity to protect 300000 targets. I find this very strange. I also find it strange that this protection continues despite the fact that the National Audit Office has clearly stated that the management of the protected areas has major challenges in Norway. The point of progress is of the opinion that the protective tank could now be calmed down and entered in order to have proper management of the areas already protected. In conclusion, I assume that the management plan for this protection area in Trillemarka will be presented at the same time as the protection plan. I am referring here to the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1708	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1711	It is such that the authority to determine the extent, means of protection and regulation of care and use under the law is attached to the King in the Council of State. There is also a legal process that says something about participation, that consultations should be conducted and that the parties involved should be taken seriously. We see no reason in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party to amend those rules. It is well possible that there are interesting issues that there may be reason to discuss around this process, but this is at least not the occasion. We get a major review of the bio-diversity law during the period. It might be the arena to address questions about changed game rules, if it turns out to be a point. On the part of the Centre Party, we are very confident in the recommendation that the Committee has made, and without signaling any position on the extent of protection and the content of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1720	From the right, we are fully in line with the opinions and conclusions expressed here by the rapporteur on behalf of the majority. Of course, it's a matter of dealing with this case from different angles of incidence – that's what's being tried on here today, knowing that there's a certain pesky case here. As in many other similar protections, there will be different angles of incidence. What are we going to do about the issue of the size of the protection of the land, etc.? The right of the government was in favour of these powers belonging to the King of State Council. We're in opposition, but of course we haven't chosen to change our position for that reason. This is the domain of the Government. I assume as a matter of course that the government is taking into account the concerns about the size of the area protection in this case, and is in dialogue with those you're going to be in dialogue with. Local communities, in the case of landowners. This also applies to the considerations that need to be taken into account when considering the diversity of species, not least to the latest version of the Red List from the Art Database, where Norway has also chosen to be in the leadership trough and wants to be in a position where we are to take care of and also to develop a standard that we may respect, at a time when the diversity of species is also more threatened in Norway than perhaps ever before. It would be interesting in such a context as this, in concluding with the dimension of land protection, to look at compensation ratios. As the Nordtun representative was in the Chamber, there is an opportunity to discuss these issues in greater detail in the Stortinget. Here the previous government with the then Environment Minister Burnde launched an investigation work through the Biomangfolds Committee, which has presented a conclusion, a council that we expect the current government to follow up on the implementation after land protection has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1735	The government is working on issues related to Trillemarka in accordance with the guidelines and practices that have been common in the past and are common, namely that the extent of protection is determined by the King of the Council of State and the financial compensation schemes come here to the Spring Storting. We aim for a decision, as I said earlier, in 2006, and the Government is now working on the request for protection. I just want to stress in this context that it has been important for me as the Council of State in this matter to be in dialogue with all the parties involved. It has been important for us to be in close dialogue because there has been a matter that has triggered great commitment, and to which there has been great attention. Then I hope that the dialogue that the Government has led has helped to mitigate the conflicts, because it has been a matter of a very high level of conflict. I would like to stress that we are working very intensively on the matter. We are still aiming for a decision before Christmas, but I also want to stress to Stortinget on this occasion that if we do not reach a conclusion during the last days of the year, we will reach a conclusion early in the New Year. I think it is okay that the Storting is also briefed on, but we are working intensively on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1747	Then I note that the protection might not come until Christmas anyway, certainly to Lars Haltbrecken's great joy. He was very much to get this away quickly in October, but has turned around now, I have noted myself. What this is about is where the power should lie. All the power in this hall, they said in the old days. Obviously, this is no longer the case. I wonder a little bit: once the Storting has decided the size of a protective area, like the case, for example. is in the Hyllingsdalen, how far beyond what the Stortinget has decided, does the Council of State think she has the opportunity to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1762	The questions asked by the representative, Lien, I have answered many times in this Chamber. Of course, there is a great deal of emphasis on what is given by guidelines and what is the intention in terms of protection issues. But it is also true that when you start with the concrete protection processes, there may be a visualisation of protective values that are then reflected in the protection processes themselves. Then it is important that we have the opportunity to go into the specific issues and find out and look at different aspects of different protection values that are then expressed. That is what has been discussed in the specific matter to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1767	When the Council of State says that she has answered the question earlier, I do not know whether to agree with it. I'm not so sure if the council answered now either, but it is now. It's probably not the last time I come back to questions in that direction. Governments pointed out that new things have emerged. In the Hyllingsdalen, something very clear and new has emerged as an important basis for a dramatic increase in the size of the protection area, and that is the reindeer grazing interests. Is this something we can expect more from in the frontier regions in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1774	It is always the case that when you are in protective processes, it is important that everything that is interested in the matter is included in the assessments. I'll comment on exactly what's going on with Trillemarka. One of the reasons we're now working a little bit intensely there is because what we've got on the table related to the Art Database. It turns out that there are even more red-listed species threatened in Norway, and a lot of them are in the Trillemarka area. It is then important to ensure that the documentation is well presented and clearly included in the assessment we are making. That's also the process in the protective matters we're dealing with. We work on the content to get all the interests involved in the assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1781	No more words have been asked for a line. The following persons shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1786	In contrast to the Environment Councils of the Bondevik II Government, Burnde and Hareide, the Bjørnø State Council has participated in a meeting and a brief inspection in Trillemarka–Rollag Østfjell, located in the three municipalities concerned, which have also unanimously recommended the protection plan of the municipal alternative. This has been received with great joy and great expectation that we will finally be able to replace conflict with dialogue in such matters of protection. Trillemarka – Rollag Østfjell is an important issue, where it is now possible to combine the preservation of national protection values while ensuring sustainable use in the area. This view has outstanding broad support in all three municipalities concerned. The three rapporteurs concerned with red-greening are very much in expectation of the new government's practice in such matters. To date, the high level of conflict in such cases has contributed to a very poor follow-up to the intentions of previously adopted protection plans and, not least, to the general loss of natural values. This is a situation that needs to be brought to an end as soon as possible, because it is nature protection that suffers most from the conflict. It is the King of the Council of State who, following today's legislation, has decision-making powers to allocate an area to nature reserves under the Nature Conservation Act. There is something that the communities concerned have fully addressed. It is also, as mentioned earlier, a position supported by the Central Party here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1795	The party to the progress has always been very critical of the implementation of coniferous protection, watercourse protection and other land protection measures, if there is a high level of conflict with landowners or municipalities concerned, which is therefore the case in this case. The Party of Progress sets out the provisions of the Constitution to protect private property rights very high. We do not want to undermine the principles of the rule of law on a high level of respect for the right of self-determination over own land and property. Both watercourse and coniferous forest protection often leads to significant interference with private property rights and, in many cases, weakens the operating base for properties and farm use in Norway. Many landowners rightly respond strongly to the state’s overrun and deprive them of important parts of the farm’s very life base. Let me mention that in the coniferous report, cf. St.meld. No 40 for 1994-1995, it states that it is provided that as much of the protection area as possible is to be laid on State soil. Unfortunately, that is not what has happened since the time these premises were laid down. I have seen too many ghastly examples in the last few years of the Storting that coniferous forest protection has been implemented in a very critical way, and that some private landowners have to take excessive burdens in terms of protection decisions. Norwegian forestry must also be seen in a close context with rural housing and nutrition in Norway. The Progress Party is working to facilitate a viable District Norway based on value creation and economic activity. We therefore demand an end to the state protecting areas in private ownership where the degree of conflict is high. We are especially against forest protection on properties where the operating base is essentially based on forestry. Different forms of protection have resulted in several farms in Norway being restricted by protection, so that the very basis for housing on the farm has been dramatically reduced for the future. Is it really what this government, which is part of the Central Party, really wants? I have seen too many ghastly examples of State abuse of private property in defence matters in Norway, where landowners have had to see that the state socialises private property. Despite a high level of conflict, coniferous forest protection has been trodden over and over again in Norway in the last decade. Landowners have been overrun, and several have actually been on the verge of mental breakdown as a result of the brutal protection imposed on them by the state. The party of progress will therefore abolish all protection where the landowner himself is protected – if we get more to say after the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1814	What has been going on for some of the contributions from the majority here is that it is the government that has authority in this matter, and then we who are in the Storting need not have any opinion about the decision that is to be made. But it is precisely in a conflict case like this, which has been going on for many years, that one should ensure the widest possible democratic anchoring. It is precisely when one should take such matters in the Storting, if not otherwise in order to establish some principles that the majority believes apply. When we see how much difference there is between the options we're talking about, we see that it will affect society very much about taking the largest or the smallest option. So big slingshot should the Storting have an opinion about, and not just say that we are delegating this to the Government, and then the Storing should not care about anything but trying to grant some money afterwards. The fronts are hugely steep in this matter, it knows everyone who has read a little in the nation, and not least those who listened to the New Year's Eve yesterday. There we could hear a representative from the Center Party who was considerable in the edges of what he thought about the environmental movement in this matter. To mention environmentalists as extremists in a case of protection when you know that the extremists are best friends with one of your government party partners, you should really be quite careful with it. Then you should just make sure you get this debate into the Storting, so there's not going to be a debate between extremists that a government council is going to try to clean up. Now I am recording that in both of today's speeches from the Center Party, the speakers have been very toothless and careless. It is obvious that there is an inconvenient situation and that they hope that the Government will make a good proposal, because it expects the local population. But everything now suggests that that won't be the case. I want to draw the parallel to the protection of tissue. The Storting signaled in the previous period that Wefsna would return to Stortinget as a matter, with an impact assessment at the bottom. But this government has completely ignored what Stortinget said in the previous round. So even though the Storting said in the previous round that the Government should have authority to protect, that doesn't mean that this big thing needs to focus blindly on it in a matter like this. Therefore, the Storting should take the opportunity, not to make a decision on protection or not, or, where appropriate, on the level of protection in Trillemarka – that is not what the Progress Party proposes – but to ask for such a large issue to be presented to the Stortinget, so that there can be a proper debate on it, and not just a small debate between the government parties. It's interesting to hear the representative of Kristiansen, who here stands and argues that the Government has authority to do what they want in Trillemarka, when a few days ago in Political Quarters you could hear him say that a protection of the Wefsna he wouldn't respect, because it wasn't in line with his own policy. Then he should have a different position in the Trillemarka case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1829	It's not good for the referees to see it, and at least not to write it, but I have in my hand St.meld. No 62 for 1991-1992, the National Park Plan, which was dealt with in the Grand Duchy in 1993. The vast majority of the protections implemented in recent times are larger, sometimes much larger than the Stortinget requested. So this we can just throw. It strikes me a little when Nordtun criticises us for the fact that this proposal has been taken up before: it is such that a rather unanimous increase agrees that we have a law of nature protection in Norway that does not work. That is why a process has been initiated, a new law on natural diversity is under way. This was not the situation the last time we had this proposal for consideration. Nor had the Riksrevision submitted a shattering report on Norwegian protection policy and, in particular, protection management. This has re-enacted this debate – in addition to the principle that this should naturally be the property of the national parliament. I'm very disappointed in Ivar Kristiansen and the Right. I understand that this is hard for the Right, because it was after all those who started this process. Kristiansen makes it sound like this is about the size, about square kilometers. This is about saying yes or no to the largest voluntary protection that has ever been implemented in Norway. It's not about 100 km2 or 140 km2. It's about yes or no at the time of the greatest voluntary protection. Then it is probably okay for the Right not to take a decision on it. I know what SV means about this. I know what the Center Party thinks about this. I know what the Progress Party thinks about it. But I do not know what the Right believes about this, and I understand that the Right does not intend to give us an answer today either. Then I shall quote my good colleague in the Ola Borten Moe Committee of the Nations on 13 December: ‘When Oslo repeatedly overruns landowners and local democracies, individuals and communities react with scepticism.’ I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1851	The progress party has, not particularly surprising, a great need to work hard on this matter. You have your own ability to express great disappointment, and you can almost look at the body language of the Progress Party representatives for the time being. I don't think it should be appropriate to be particularly disappointed that the Right believes the same in opposition that we actually meant in position. It's a little bit about what kind of principles you have to stand for – and behind – when it comes to these kinds of issues and questions. It's not about, as I feel the Progress Party is trying to represent it as, the size of the area protection. The representative Lundtigen is trying in a leather of rose-red light to present this as a matter of level of conflict, who has visited this area, and who has not visited the area. That is not what this case is about either. The colour must be very pink in order to perform the work of art to describe a situation where the Government would land on proposing an area protection of 147 km2 and this happens in applause from SV rapporteurs and local centre party rapporteurs. That's not the reality, even though it's never that much now approaching Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1859	I must say that I am very disappointed, not least about the Centre Party and also the Right in this matter, because unfortunately on several occasions I have seen that protection decisions have been duly justified, that the very protection process has taken little human interest, and that state authorities have brutally trodden through protection to the great despair of the landowners. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for a neutral review of the entire coniferous protection that has taken place in Norway until now. My view is that Norway does not even need more deforestation if the preservation of biodiversity by nature and the environment is the argument for increased protection. Because in Norway, the forest has more than doubled in the last hundred years. Today, only around one third of the increase of approx. Seven million. m3, against an increase of about 20 million. m3. More than 37 pst. of the land area of Norway covered by forest and only 50 pst. of this total forest area is relevant for profitable forestry. Then a significant and important point is that we are in a situation where half of the forest in Norway actually protects itself, because it is not economically sound to exploit and is therefore left at peace for maximum and other interventions. Nevertheless, we see an increasing pressure from the authorities to protect forested areas in those areas that are best and best suited for forestry. The party of progress considers this to be very regrettable and highly incomprehensible. The conclusion is, as we in the Progress Party see it, that coniferous forest protection is actually very district hostile. It's probably also unconstitutional. The protection may also be contrary to human law. In any case, the protection does not have to be implemented in a country like Norway, where growth is three times higher than what we harvest. The Party considers that no private forest areas should be protected if the landowner opposes such protection. In any case – in the case of protection, the State should provide full compensation, as the Constitution also requires. The protection of forests should preferably be based on a principle of full volunteering. Nevertheless, there must be opportunities for the new future generations to require the abolition of protection and full economic compensation by the State for the duration of the protection. The area being protected should, as I believe, receive at least an annual replacement sum corresponding to the value of the productive capacity of the protected forest areas. The Progress Party has full respect for private ownership and we believe that the fundamental rights of the landowner should be fully respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1879	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1895	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1902	This is really a big and important matter, which had probably earned a fairly broad and significant debate, but I don't think the time is right to start it, in addition to the fact that it is a unanimous committee that joins the proposal of the Government in this matter. When I say it's a big and important thing, it's because there's been an important UN convention in place on the treatment and control of ballast water and sediments. As we have increasing ship traffic worldwide, the discharges of ballast water and sediments are actually one of the greatest threats to the marine environment. In this context, it is worth noting to what extent this also affects Norway. Norway is a major port, and we are particularly vulnerable, not least in the more polar regions. Norway has been a driver of the convention. You've actually also been able to imagine that you've achieved even more than you've been able to achieve. But here, I think the phase-in of the content of the Convention will be crucial if, after 2016, we can say that we have succeeded, and to what extent, by making the international fleet incorporate the provisions on treatment and emission requirements, that we are able to comply with the standards set out in the Convention, and that we respect the areas, the depth of the sea and the areas where we have the opportunity to discharge ballast water. On this basis, there is a unanimous committee that advises, probably with slightly different comments. But this is a matter that has the full agreement of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1915	The introduction of alien species is today one of the most serious threats to biodiversity in marine ecological systems. The greatest danger is ships from other parts of the world with similar climatic and ecological conditions as in our near coastal waters. This will at all times pose a risk of spreading and introducing alien species from ballast water and from the husbandry of ships. The Decision of the IMO of 2004 on a new Convention for the Management and Purification of Ballast Waters has taken the first step on the road to preventing such dissemination. The Ballast Water Purification requirement will be introduced over a period from 2009 to 2016. This means that the first step has been taken to prevent the spread of unwanted species. It is significantly more difficult to address the risk of introduction of alien organisms via ship hulls. There are no conventions and no rules so far. On 27 October of this year, the Government decided to request the consent of the Storting to accede to the International Convention for the Control and Treatment of Ballast Waters and Sediments from Ships. So far, Norway and Spain of the European countries have acceded to the Convention. It is worth noting that the Convention will first come into force when at least 30 states with a total of 35 pst. the commercial fleet of the world has acceded to it. In connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 8 for 2005-2006, Total management of the marine environment in the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Council of State announced that she would make a proposal for Norway to accede to the Convention, and that is what we are doing today. This is a document that Norway has been working on in various international settings. Preventing the spread of alien organisms is very important in order not to create imbalances in our vulnerable marine environment in our near coastal areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1926	Let me first say that we are well pleased that the Ballast Water Convention is being ratified and that Norway is becoming one of the first countries in Europe to accede to the Convention. The introduced species from ballast water are a major environmental threat. The most famous example of how much environmental damage introduced species can do is the American camouflage introduced at the Black Sea in the late 1980s. It spread rapidly, and during the 1990s, the maneten had uncompetitively increased fish stocks and stood for a total of 90 pst. of the total biomass in the Black Sea. The biomass of this cammanet in the Black Sea accounted for more than the total global fishing effort. It reproduced rapidly and also spread to the Asov Sea and elsewhere. The economic consequences of this have been enormous, and have created poverty in the strata that have depended on the displacement of this manatee. Another example of environmental damage from ballast watershed is the eastern European zebra mussel, which has invaded the American seas. More than 40 pst. U.S. rivers and lakes have now been invaded by the zebra mussel, which blocks water intake, destroys fishing gear, covers all hard surfaces such as hull installations and displaces local species. Since the mussel was introduced and up to 2000, the US authorities have used no less than between 750 million. And $1 billion US dollars on measures to try to control this intruder. Introduced species are a major threat to biodiversity. This is one of the steps taken by the Government to ensure that we are in advance of this work. To spring, the Art Database will also provide a blacklist, almost an counterpart to the redlist presented last week, listing the species we have in Norway that have been introduced and creating a problem for ecosystems in Norway. In the negotiations on this ballast water convention, Norway has been active, and we have been an important driver for establishing the Convention. It is important to note that if we are to achieve the objectives of this Convention, it requires technological development. It should be a challenge for Norwegian business to participate and be at the forefront of technology development, so that we can also be the first to take action. I'm glad that the government here is able to show that we can be a leading country on international environmental issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1941	The threats to the sea are many and complex, and the danger of harmful introductions of alien species has gradually increased. With our long coastline and great ship activity, we are at relatively high risk. We'd rather not experience the same thing that our neighbours over the cold experienced in the summer of 2005, that the summer holiday came and the sea was viscous, green and unrecognizable. In the Baltic Sea, the environment was brutally put back on the agenda. So we can't expect that we'll be careful about these events in our marine and fjord regions. Therefore, we must lead and take care of the sea – whether it is the large open sea areas that we manage in a global community, or the smaller, near coastal areas. Shipping presents us with new challenges: the spread of species to new areas where they do not occur naturally has increased sharply over the past decade. The introduction of alien species into the marine environment is a serious threat to marine biodiversity and to our marine industries. The UN Convention on Biological Diversity obliges Norway to seek to prevent the introduction, control or eradication of species threatening ecosystems, habitats or other species. Intakes and discharges of ballast water from ships engaged in international ship traffic are, together with the afforestation of hulls, the main source of introduced species in the sea. In recent decades there has been a significant increase in maritime traffic and in transport volumes. The UN Maritime Organisation, IMO, adopted voluntary guidelines in 1991 to prevent the introduction via shipping. In February 2004, a new Convention on the Control and Treatment of Ballast Water and Sediments from Ships was agreed. Norway has been a driving force in the process and the shipping industry has made significant professional contributions to the Convention work. In the first instance ballast water replacement is required before a ship arrives at port. However, all ships shall, from a given time, comply with ballast water treatment requirements according to a defined standard. Requirements for such ballast water treatment shall be phased into the period from 2009 to 2016. And the goal is very clear, that the risk of spreading alien species via ballast water should be eliminated. The government has already started implementing the Convention. It has, among other things, be shown to be necessary to provide for a new legal framework in order to be able to impose requirements on shipping in this area. We have therefore put forward a proposal for a new legislation in a proposal for a new law on ship safety. The proposal is now in Stortinget and is due to be discussed in February. At the same time, we are working on creating a new regulation. The regulation will include, inter alia: contain requirements for ballast water replacement and other risk mitigation measures that may be implemented before the entry into force of the Convention. In the short term, it is important to implement the measures that we already know can achieve a great deal of impact. So now the challenge is to bring the Convention into force internationally, and here all good forces must contribute. I recently had a meeting with the Secretary-General of the IMO. He was very clear that this was an important issue for the marine environment and for international shipping. It is absolutely necessary for the credibility of the IMO not to go too long before the Convention enters into force. I am therefore pleased that I can today request the consent of the Stortingen to accede to the ballast water convention. It is an important signal that the shipping nation of Norway, as one of the first countries in Europe, accedes to the Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1967	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e1983	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2000	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1519]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2013	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2021	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and the Left. 5-7, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 8 to 15, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 8–15, from the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2099	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-7, from the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2129	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Municipality Proposition for 2008 to strengthen the municipal sector by increasing the municipality’s share of the taxpayer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2144	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2168	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to follow closely the evolution of the electricity price. If an abnormal situation arises again on the electricity market, the use of the housing aid should be reconsidered in order to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e2183	We shall then vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, part 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e4240	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e4253	So we're going to go to area six.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e5930	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e6511	The progress party has announced that they want to vote against the cap. 1520 heading 96.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e6758	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e8826	Under I there is a different proposal from the Progress Party to the Chapter. 634 heading 21. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjectivesCrones634Workmarket measures21Evaluation, development measures, etc. increased by 38 800000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e8875	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsberg for Stortinget.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e9807	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 December 2006: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for increased appropriations to the Health Authority’s work on a new chapter. 4 A of the 2007 Revised National Budget on Patients’ Rights Act.’ It is the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14.ana.ud316e9832	There is no record.
