ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e41	An application for welfare leave has been made by the Central Party Group for the representation of Alf Ivar Samuelsen from 27 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, is called to meet during the leave period3. Janne Sjelmo Nordås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Alf Ivar Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e62	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e65	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Anders Anundsen, Kåre Fostervold and I would like to propose a case to establish road safety halls in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e70	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e84	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1372]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e100	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e107	We're dealing with the Tyrihans field today. It is an oil, gas and condensate finding in the Norwegian Sea that is approx. 170 km off the coast of Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland. As the rapporteur-general, it is possible to present a unanimous opinion on this matter. This is a field that is now planned to be built with twelve seabed wells divided into five bottom frames. Production shall be transferred in a 43 km long pipeline to the Kristin platform before being shipped together with gas from Kristin through Åsgard Transport to Kårstø. As the setting shows, this is a very good project. It is a project that is sewn together with others, so that this is also a socio-economic project. We also see that the operational responsibility for Tyrihans, which we decide today, is added to the existing Statoil operating organisation for the Halten/Nordland area, which is located in Stjørdal. This will help to strengthen the environment in this area. Planned start-up here is the summer of 2009. We also see that this illustrates how long it actually takes to detect a field until it comes into final production. Tyrihans will be one of the largest expansion projects on Norwegian pedestal in the coming years and will make an important contribution to the total production of petroleum and to the level of activity of Norwegian pedestal in the future. It has a total cost of approx. 13,5 billion kroner, and the operator's profitability calculations show that the expansion solution described in the plan for expansion, plant and operation provides good profitability for society, as also confirmed by the authorities that have looked at it in retrospect. In other words, it is an economically robust and socio-economically profitable project also in the event of significant deviations in assumptions. Looking further at what the Committee has been working on, there are certain points of view from the SFT on the pollution side and environmental issues. The Committee has asked a number of questions about this. We are satisfied with the answers given by the Council of State to these questions, so that we have found that we would go in for it. There is no doubt that some emissions are in the upper limit, but, as is also stated in the setting, this will continue to work continuously to achieve zero emissions in the long term if possible. With regard to where and to whom the work is to be outsourced, the Committee has said a few words in the vote that, with regard to the planned work to be done in connection with Tyrihans, it is desirable, of course, that as much as possible be placed within our workshop industry and in industry in general in Norway. We can't tell them to do that. But we have drawn attention to the fact that this will enrich the industry that will be associated with this and that can also be involved both in the planning phase and in the production phase. I recommend the setting, which is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e126	Tyrihans is a figure from Norwegian folk adventure. Tyrihans means ‘Hans that suits the thyropod’. It was always work for the one who did not suffice for the other. So Tyrihans has the same task and role as Ashkeladden and Cinderella. In the world of adventures, Cinderella and Ashkeladden always win silver and gold and half the kingdom. It brings us to today's Tyrihans and the Norwegian oil adventure. The expansion of Tyrihans is one of the largest future expansion projects on Norwegian pedestal. Tyrihans will make an important contribution to both the total production and the level of activity of the socket. The Christian People's Party is therefore positive for the expansion and operation of the Tyrihans. There will be great opportunities for Norwegian industry and safe Norwegian jobs. I am therefore pleased that Statoil has assessed it in such a way that Norwegian industry will have good opportunities to get the task of building and installing the module to be installed on the Kristin platform. On the other hand, we are concerned about some environmental consequences of the development project, as the rapporteur stressed in his statement. State pollution monitoring considers that there have been insufficient overall assessments based on environmental expertise in line with the objective of zero emissions. The SFT also considers that Statoil has shown too little variability in the assessment of the environmental impact of emissions of environmentally hazardous components in water produced. The Christian People's Party believes that we must have a cautious line in relation to environmental pressures and maintain the precautionary principle, in particular taking into account that this is one of the largest development projects on the Norwegian base in the coming years. We are also concerned about increasing emissions of nitrogen oxides during the drilling and installation phase as well as during the operational phase. For the whole production period NOx emissions have been calculated with 2380 tonnes. Norway shall comply with the obligations signed in the Gothenburg Protocol. This came into force on 17 May last year. The Protocol, together with previous protocols, will contribute significantly to reducing the exceedances of the tolerance limit for pollution in Norway in 2010. The main challenge is precisely to reduce NOx emissions by 2010. Norway will benefit significantly from compliance by other countries with its obligations in this area. It is also very important for Norway to comply with its own compliance. One of the main means we have to reduce NOx emissions is just new requirements for emission permits for the power plants on the base. "You want to be with so hang on!" said the Tyrihans of the fairy tale, and he won the princess and half the kingdom. The development project Tyrihans currently has support from all parties in the Kingdom of Norway, although we are two parties that see more environmental challenges in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e148	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1372]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e168	The electricity supply situation in Norway is difficult, especially for More and Romesdal and Trøndelag, and we know that if we do not act today, we can face a power crisis in this region in a few years, around 2008-2010. This could be two outcomes. The one is direct power shortage, and the other is a situation with significantly higher prices in this area than in the rest of the country. None of these situations are acceptable. In 2010, the mid-Norway power gap was estimated to be around 9 TWh. This corresponds to the total consumption every year in Oslo. There is not enough grid today to bring in such a amount of force from other parts of the country. In most years there will not be enough force in the country either, and the option is then imported force. A disruption of the regional network may be completed in 2012. Causes of the crisis are increasing consumption in this part of the country, especially due to very positive industrial developments, including: with the establishment of new and modern power-requiring industries. At the same time, electricity production in the region or the capacity of the power grid has not increased accordingly. A power crisis may result in the cessation of production at Hydro's aluminiumworks on Sunndalsøra, at Hustadmarmor or even at the Worm Lange plant. Chief Holseter in Statnett has said that he fears dark worlds in Middle Norway in 2010 if the construction of gas power plants is not immediately started. Statnett’s group leader pointed out last year at Statnett’s autumn conference that Statnett cannot build itself out of this situation with more network capacity on its own. Increased production capacity in this part of the country is also necessary. The only thing that monnars is a gas power plant in this area, for example. in the god of the Tent, in the valley of Rome, or in the forest. On 19 January 2006, the Address Paper wrote that there is a danger that people in central Norway in the years to come will have to pay more for the flow than anyone else in the whole country. The reason for this is a lack of both power and power lines that can supply consumers in this part of the country. In the years 2008-2012, what is called a dedicated price range for Mid Norway can be introduced. Communication director Tor Inge Akssen i Statnett says to the Address Paper on 19 January this year that there is a real risk that the price of electricity can be significantly higher in Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal than in the rest of the country. Higher power prices are probably the first consumer to meet when the power supply becomes unsafe. Both Statnett and the large power companies in Central Norway are a few things about one thing, and that is that if we are to be sure to avoid a power crisis in the years to come, we need to build gas power plants. The only thing that stands out to increase power generation in central Norway in line with the need is a gas power plant. A gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden will produce about 7 TWh of electricity per year. It's almost enough to cover the power gap in Central Norway and in More and Romesdal. So if we're going to think about it as an alternative, we're going to want to think about it for example. needed 800 windmills, each with a height of 100 metres, to produce as much energy as the gas power plant on the Tent Goods, which the NVE has now granted concession, but which the Government will not be allowed to build. What will 800 windmills look like in the landscape on the Mediterranean coast? It's a question I think we have to ask, and we have to answer before we go to that option. In this situation, the Government sends a rather vague signal about what can and must be done to meet these major challenges. Statoil has applied for the concession and release of a gas power plant on the Tent Goods. The NVE has agreed to the concession. The government has delegated this to the to-do list. They want to demand, it's said, CO2 handling on the Tent Goods from one day to the next. The gas power plant in Central Norway shall be cleaned from the first day, says the Government. A variant such as the one on Kårstø is apparently not current, with a postponement of cleaning until 2009. Kårstø is the pilot who has to open up to a technology and an economy elsewhere in the country. If Kårstø is to be the pilot, it means that all other gas power plants will have to wait until after 2009, as we will have experience from Kårstø around technology, economics and CO2 handling, before they can start building gas power plants. Then we can be in the middle of a power crisis in Middle Norway already before we've had experience with the first pilot. If we are to wait until 2009, to look at the experience from Kårstø with CO2 handling, a gas power plant with such handling will hardly be ready on the RV before 2015. – It may have been our dark and quiet in Middle Norway for many years before that! It is far from the north-west gas power plant, says Enoxen to Sunnmørsposten 10 November 2005. But what are the options of the Council of State? It's kind of vague. Asking people to go to the purchase of large quantities of wood and light is certainly a bad alternative. I feel, with all due respect, that the oil and energy minister is probably one of the few people who don't think that gas power plants are necessary to solve the power crisis in Central Norway. Professionals, Statnett and power companies believe the opposite. This does not make the situation any easier when the Government does not want to enter a Nordic green certificate scheme in the power market to stimulate exciting, environmentally friendly supplements. Here, there's some supplement that can be in addition to gas power and remedy the situation. We also need them, but we don't get away from gas power plants, anyway. Another part of the government's policy is that the state council of Enoxsen owes it to the company, and he owes it to others. on Hydro. Enoxen says to the Address Paper on 11 January this year: ‘Hydro itself has helped to generate the power deficit with its high consumption on the Worm Lange and Hydro Aluminium Sunndal. As a power producer, they must also take responsibility for re-compensating." The alternative for Hydro would be to move aluminium production from the Sunndalsøra to the rest of the world and allow the gas from the Worm Lange to be brought directly to the United Kingdom instead of being landed in the Nyhavna at the Aukra. It would have saved the Energy Councils for a problem, but also brought value creation and jobs out of the country. Furthermore, if Hydro had moved the aluminium production from Sunndalsøra to abroad, e.g. to Asia, does the Minister of Oil and Energy think that Hydro had used cleaner energy sources there than Norwegian gas power plants? It is a discharge from the State Council to be owed to Hydro, while this government is doing everything it can to prevent new power generation through rigid requirements for CO2 management without guaranteeing that the state takes account of the obligations it imposes on the development company. Is the criticism of Hydro's investments an expression of a willful policy from the Government and the Central Party: no to jobs in the districts, yes to moving jobs abroad? The situation in the entire power supply in Norway, especially in our region, i.e. the region of More and Romesdal and Trøndelag, will be very serious in very few years. Governments have failed in several questions and several challenges so far do not want to give clear answers to what they want to do with this. Uncertainty is very dangerous. I hope that today's debate can lead us a few steps forward towards a solution to these serious challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e219	The representative, Petter Løvik, addresses a very topical issue. Unfortunately, the representative makes a mistake at most points in his production, except at one time. It's a very demanding situation we're facing in central Norway. There is a problem that I am extremely concerned about, and which was one of the first things I took care of after I joined as an oil and energy minister. It is necessary to find a solution to the challenge we face in this region. I have focused a lot on the power situation in Central Norway, among others. I was on a two-day visit to the area to get into the situation. I have met with the actors in this area, and I have had several meetings with Norway's watercourse and energy directorate – NVE – and with Statnett, and I have had meetings with current builders by force, both in relation to gas power and in relation to other types of power. The work now done by the Ministry is done in close cooperation with the NVE, Statnett and various actors in Central Norway. There is reason to stress that the situation in Central Norway is special, as the representative Løvik was in. We have had a very rapid growth in consumption related to industrial development, among other things. through the extension of Hydro Aluminium to the Sunndalsøra. Central Norway is currently the region in Norway with the greatest challenges in terms of security of supply for electricity. There will be further growth in the area in the years to come, including: related to the expansion of the Worm Lange. There is therefore no doubt that there is a need for more power generation and transmission capacity in the coming years. In a normal year, consumption in Møre and Romsdal 4 TWh is now higher than electricity generation in the county. This means that the county is dependent on large imports. If we look at Middle Norway in total, the consumption is 6 TWh larger than the production. In sum, this means that the supply to this area will need to be significantly increased by 2009. State networks have an important role to play in the work that is now being done. Statnett makes several major network investments in the area specifically linked to the expansion of the Sunndalsøra and the Worm Lange extension. A reduced entry rate has also been introduced for new production facilities in the area. State network analysis of the situation in the area shows that the benefits of grid reinforcement will be considerable. There will also be, as has been said, significant network savings related to the establishment of new production in the area. So it'll be an advantage if it also becomes established production and not just networks. In addition to the projects already under way by Statnet, they are also preparing investment projects in the region. But it takes, as we know, time to realize these. Increased transmission capacity that can cover the increased consumption in this area may, as the representative Løvik says, be in place at the earliest in 2012. Within the five months that have passed since I took over as Minister of Oil and Energy, this has been a high priority work on the part of the Council of State. However, there should not be much imagination to calculate that when the consumption growth is at its peak in 2009, and the grid can only be in place in 2012, this work could not have started in October last year. It should have started at least two to three years ago, in the time of the previous government. This is a work that I'm most focused on. The situation is that we're late in strengthening the grid, and we're late in building new production capacity in this area. It is therefore the case that if the Government today gave a clear signal to any builders of gas power in this area, it will be very hard, even without cleaning requirements and without any emission requirements at all, to have a gas power plant in place until 2009, when the large consumption increases come. At the top of it all, we don't know if any of the people who have applied for a concession will undertake to build gas power plants. It is also the clear signals given by the builders. In an open meeting that was held on the Tent Goods, where several deposit representatives were present, Statoil stressed that even without cleaning requirements, this was a marginal project, which was not sure if one would realise. It shows some of the complexity of this, and it is also reflected in the fact that of the concessions given in the previous period of the previous government, only one is in use, and it is on Kårstø, where development is now under way, and where the Government is also running a comprehensive cleaning project. It is therefore not the case, as the representative Løvik claims, that the Government has rejected the construction of gas power plants. The government now has this request for consideration. NVE has given concession. State pollution control - SFT - has given its position to the Ministry of the Environment, and the matter lies in the Ministry of Environmental Protection for treatment. We have also been informed in advance about the construction of gas power plants in Elnesvågen, which can also be a current project. No concession has been requested – it has been notified so far. What the Government has said, and which is the basis of the Soria Moria Declaration, is that we should contribute to CO2 management in future gas power plants as well. Of course, this is also the basis if a gas power plant is built on the Tent Goods, but it should not delay this project. If the concession is put into service, we will start work on it in parallel with the expansion of this area, with a view to ensuring that CO2 management is in place when the gas power plant is in place. With the expansion time it takes to get a gas plant in place, we have about as much time to realize this as we have at Kårstø. It's going to be demanding, but the situation in Central Norway is special. It requires special measures, and one starts too late, mainly because it was not taken early enough. It's this government's intention to do something about it. We're already doing something about it, and we're also waiting for input from the actors in this area, which I met on January 16th, to hear what plans they have in relation to helping solve this situation. It's serious, and I'm taking very seriously the situation that's in this area. The meeting I had on 16 January with actors in this area was very constructive, and there were several different opinions about what could be done. I was asked to record the current project as quickly as possible, and it became clear from my point of view that the Government would contribute to rapid processing and also help to trigger the projects concerned, whether it is alternative energy such as wind, small power or gas power in this area, in order to put it in place. In order to implement measures in this area, either in relation to production or to networks, it is necessary to implement them mainly both. Then I'd like to stress that we per. Today, there are good systems for coping with strenuous power situations. Statenet has through the treatment of St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004, on security of supply for electricity, etc., as presented by the previous government, increased and clarified system responsibilities in relation to so-called very strenuous power situations. Unfortunately, as the representative of Løvik says, it is not possible to establish a separate price range here in 2009. There's already a separate price range here. It is the Government's ambition that it should not be put into service. It would not be acceptable to use it as an instrument in such an area. Therefore, the Government has put high pressure on it to increase capacity, both in terms of transmission and in relation to production in this area. Let me conclude by saying that this is a matter which I take very seriously. I am in close dialogue with the relevant agencies, both NVE, Statnett, the builders and not least the region that we are talking about here. As the representative Løvik referred to, I said before Christmas that unfortunately there was a long way to get a gas power plant here. Unfortunately, I am afraid that these are words that I must stand by today. Then you can discuss what 'far ahead' is in this context. Even if we put the spade in the ground today, there is probably not going to be gas power production in this area until around 2009. It's a long way ahead of us in view of the increase in consumption we're now seeing. This means that the previous government should have addressed this matter in a completely different way from what it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e257	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm particularly pleased with what he said about the fact that there won't be any price range in the country or that there will be higher prices in our part of the country. I take it as a promise that that won't happen. The Council of State began by saying that the representative of Løvik was wrong about most of the points. Then he probably gave me right to say everything. It was a concrete thing that he said I was wrong about, namely that the government has not said no to the gas power plant on the Tent Credits. It's formally correct, but in practice it does mean to set CO2 handling requirements from the day a no. If a builder is to be subject to such strict requirements as the government does not want to pay the financial contribution, it is as good as a no. It might also be nice to say to the right council how much the state will contribute, if the state imposes such strong restrictions. There is a paradox in this matter. The gas from the Worm Lange will supply 40 million people in the United Kingdom with gas. In the United Kingdom, gas will be used for power generation, industry and households, all without CO2 treatment. State power is now building gas power plants in Germany without CO2 handling. The Norwegian Government will not allow the construction of a gas power plant near the landing site in Møre and Romesdal, which will supply half a million Møre and Romesdal and Trøndelag without costly CO2 treatment. The gas from the Worm Lange shall supply the United Kingdom with gas. The United Kingdom has many power plants and industrial plants that together emit more than 200 million. tonnes of CO2 per tonne; years. The Norwegian government will stop a gas power plant on Møre due to a 2.8 million emissions. tonnes of CO2 per tonne; years, while leading to the need to import power from abroad, which means significantly more pollution than this. Norway exports almost every gas we pick up from the continental shelf. During a day or two, gas is burned somewhere in Europe, in power generation, in industry or in households. This results in annual CO2 emissions from Norwegian gas of 700 million. tonnes per tonne; years. In Norway, the discussion revolves around 2.8 million emissions. tonnes of CO2 from the Tjeldbergodden, or 0,4 pst. of the total annual emissions of CO2. That's for these 0.4 pst. the Minister of Oil and Energy is willing to take a chance on a power crisis in Central Norway in a few years' time. I hope it's not too late to turn around, but as the council itself said, we have a bad time. We could have started before, of course, but this does not prevent us from setting full speed on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e295	Where the representative Løvik in his main post was wrong, the description of the government's handling of this matter was not of the actual circumstances around the situation we have in Middle Norway. There the representative gave a precise description – to clarify it from my side. Then I got hurt to say that there is a separate price range in Mid-Norway today. It's not. Today you have your price. It has to do with having a good magazine situation. There was a separate price range in this area during the last dry year, i.e. in the time of the previous government. So that's not something you adopt politically. The previous government put it into use and accepted that More was a separate price range under the dry-year situation, so it is mentioned. It may seem like a paradox that the gas from this area is going to the United Kingdom and not to produce energy or put it into service here. But it has nothing to do with the Government's ambition for CO2 management. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that the representative Løvik from the Right puts so much of his argument on this very point. Then the representative Løvik should have heard the arguments from Statoil in the meeting we had on the Tent Credit, where it was clarified that even without CO2 quota prices and without cleaning requirements, it was by no means certain that this plant was built. We now experience that even the Advance Party asks the Government to put more pressure on the work on CO2 management. I actually appreciate the fact that the Advance Party is engaged in this way. I am surprised that only the Right is left on the arena and will not have CO2 handling in the case of gas power plants. Climate policy issues are among the most important environmental policy issues that we will face in the years to come. The fact that the government has high ambitions in terms of handling CO2 should, in my opinion, have broad support in this room. It shall not prevent concession treatment, propulsion and phase-in of new production in this area. New production needs to be put in place. So it's not the insidiousness of this government that makes us today in the situation we are. It is a combination of the fact that there is a market that determines when to build new production capacity, a market principle that the Right is 100 pst. for – I have never heard that the Right is against the market deciding when to expand production capacity – and that the network reinforcement was not started early enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e325	Both the Labour Party and I very much welcome a debate on the power situation in Norway and, in particular, with a strong focus on the situation in Central Norway, especially in More and Romesdal. It is of course something special that it is invited to this interpellation debate from the Right, the party to the recent oil and energy minister from the government of Bondevik who did not make the slightest effort to address the very worrying situation with a imminent power crisis in More and Romesdal. Nevertheless, there is an important invitation to debate, and I take it very positively, but now the work of finding solutions has to get going, after so much valuable time has been lost because of the lack of action and commitment, as the Council of State so clearly had in mind. I am very pleased that the Government, with the Minister of Oil and Energy at the head, has so powerfully set in motion the work of preparing the ground for, among other things. to be able to build gas power plants through a wide-ranging work on CO2 management and its financing. The imbalance in the power market could have very dramatic consequences in the near future. On a country-by-country basis, power generation may vary from around 50 % to around 50 %. 150 TWh in wet years down to approx. 90 TWh in a dry year, with a mean of approx. 120 TWh. This implies an import need of approx. 30 TWh in a dry year situation, while today's online capacity does not allow us to import more than between 15 and 20 TWh. Of course, this is worrying, while we already have undercapacity in our production in a normal year. It is particularly bad environmental that this severe underbalance must be covered by imports of power produced by coal and nuclear power stations, especially from dangerous Russian nuclear power stations of the Chernobyl type. The area where the situation is most precarious is More and Romesdal, as it's pointed out earlier here. So already in 2008/2009 one will have a consumption that is twice as large as production in a normal year, i.e. an estimated consumption of up to 12 TWh and a production of approximately 6 TWh, and with no transfer capacity into central Norway. In fact, Statnett has calculated that the power deficit in Middle Norway in 2010 will correspond to the entire consumption of Oslo, as the representative Løvik also pointed out. This is a totally unreal situation for a part of the country that has so huge resources on land in terms of water and heavy oil and gas resources outside our coastline. The consequences of power shortage are unsustainable. It sends very negative signals regarding the further development of land-based oil and gas activities. The risk of power shortages means a high risk of entry into service, and it also reduces the possibility of attracting new activities from outside. So why is the situation so precarious in More and Romesdal? The answers include:\t\t You can change the virtually no new power generation growth in general consumption of adventurous industrial developments, including: Hydro Aluminium – Europe’s largest and most modern work – The Worm Lange extension, Hustadmarmor etc. These are non-spare-exhaustible establishments. Gases must be delivered in time in England 24 hours every 365 days of the year, aluminium production cannot be shut down. We can't get into a situation where we hit our industry and our business. Force must be expanded in the state. And there's only one or two gas plants that can meet the need. Wind power, bioenergy and small power plants can only become minor supplements in this image, even if it may be significant. Therefore, each stone has to be turned in order to put in place gas power plants, preferably within three to four years. And I have to say from this pulpit that I expect those who have applied and received a concession to use their concession. Something else will be a lack of social responsibility, and it will be keeping the authorities, which are now in the process of facilitating new power generation, too fooled. And then it's definitely going to be necessary for grid expansion into the region, either from the south or from the north. I also want to establish, as the Council of State was also concerned, that it would be totally unacceptable to use the price mechanism, which makes the price of the power of customers more expensive in Mora and Romesdal than elsewhere in the country. It is a national responsibility to ensure equal access to power at about the same price! The lack of power can definitely not be solved by saving, because households and businesses have to pay high prices. For that, the gap is too big.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e359	Unfortunately, today is a very sad day, although I hoped it would be a joyous day, because what we witnessed when we heard the statements of the Council of State was actually the warning of a power crisis. The reality description he gave was gloomy, both in terms of the power situation and – not least – in terms of the Government's instruments. The Council of State did not take any concrete action to speed up any increase in power generation, either in central Norway or in the country. Taking into account that he describes the presence of a power crisis in 2009, we would think that it was just the measures he came with. Dialogue, as the council says he has with many producers, gives no power. The councils describe the bad time we have, and there's hardly enough time to build gas power plants with today's technology. Nevertheless, the Government is going to demand a new technology that no other gas power plant in the world has used significantly. It can be pointed out that it has been used in a gas power plant in Lubbock, Texas, which is a small Putre gas power plant, but the fact is that for gas power plants over 30 MW – and here we are talking about a gas power plant of at least 400 MW on the Tjeldbergodden – this technology has never been tested. When a scarcely enough time to build gas power plants with today's technology, how in all days will one have time to build a gas power plant with technology that one will start testing on Kårstø from 2009? Then you know that a test will at least be one year before you evaluate it. It is then up in 2011 before this evaluation is completed. And if it turns out against assumption that this is a success, it will take approx. three years to build a gas power plant. Then a deficit of already five years compared to what the Council of State itself has said is the critical time. This is tragic. The Council of State indicates that even the Progress Party has now entered into the process of building a gas power plant with CO2 management. It shows a little bit what kind of strange reality description the state council has. Because that is not what the Progress Party has proposed. The Progress Party has proposed that, first of all, there should be no special demand for CO2 management for gas power plants, precisely because so many professionals say that it is technically impossible to get this guaranteed by 2009, and we need to look at what we can guarantee to do here, and not what we hope to achieve. I don't want to be there the day people in More and Romesdal and Trøndelag see there's no electricity in the wall. Remove the uncertain framework conditions that exist for gas power plants! And then we're going to run a parallel race where a developer of the CO2 value chain, where the state takes responsibility for economic and technological development of CO2 management, for developing transport solutions and for developing reception facilities on platforms. We can do that, but the most important thing is we take away the economic and technological risks from the builders, so they can get started now. Because, as the Council of State has said, we don't have the time and the way with today's technology. Then it's madness – to repeat it – to start with further strict demands, as we know will delay this. It's not for nothing that Statnet goes out and tells politicians that you have to make sure that you start building gas power plants now, we can't wait. It is not for nothing that the rapporteurs for the Central Party in the region have a boost to build gas power plants now, and will wait until technology is ready. Because they're the ones who want to see the consequences of it. It is not for nothing that the county rapporteurs of the Workers' Party both in Møre and Romesdal and Süd-Trøndelag say that we must get started now – with today's technology we can have CO2 cleaning afterwards. But here comes a government council and a government saying no, here it's going to be CO2 cleaning from day one, and if you don't have CO2 cleaning, it's not going to be built anything. When one sees what the government has invested so far, it's disappointing. Before the state budget was presented last autumn, Heidi Sørensen was out in the newspaper and said that there must be 340 million. kr in place to ensure the progress of the CO2 cleaning process. It's 20 million. kr. So someone would say yes, but there's money in the revised budget. It's not often there's so much in the revised budget on something that's not so priority, one would believe. Then the problem is that the builders have said that they get at all an extra cost of CO2 handling, they won't even start building gas power plants. That's where the essence lies. All the builders that this Committee on Energy and the Environment has made have said: If CO2 management is required and we as builders have to take a little or a lot of this extra cost, we are not building. It's about the Tent Goods, it's about the Mongstad, it's about the Forest. Even LO, who is a specialist in the government, has said that they believe that zero gas power plants are being built whose builders have to take a little off or the whole cost. Nevertheless, on 2 November, the Council of State states to the N.B.: ‘Member States may not take the entire bill. Actors must bite into the acidic apple and realize that they must take an active part in the work in order to use CO2 in an environmental way.’» It's okay to have visions, but the problem is when these visions don't fit reality and time dimensions. That's when it comes to power crisis. It's nice so far that the government is open and honest with what we can expect, but it's a tragedy for Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e414	Governments state that the interpellant makes mistakes in all areas except one. Then I had actually expected the Council of State to make quite clear to this assembly in what kind of area the interpellant actually was wrong. But there wasn't a single proof or an example of what kind of area you've been navigating wrong. I had also believed that in this major and important case, the Council of State would take the opportunity to promote some signals about how to expect to be treated the crisis that we all know will occur in Central Norway if no decisions are taken now, i.e. in the course of the day or in a very short time. So in one of the world's largest energy nations, we have faced such a situation that in the most active industries in the country, we face a power crisis, an energy crisis. Almost no matter what we choose to do today or in the future, scarcely will meet one of the country's most active industries in a few years. And the government's answer when you face a deficit period and a situation where you have a deficit of about 9 TW around 2010, which we all agree on, is not to indicate what kind of solutions you want to put in place in 2009, but you choose to point backwards. One chooses to say that this is due to the previous government. What in the world of kind of signals is this to those who want to look forward, who want to bet forward in Middle Norway? Maybe it's also a signal to those who've been betting. Those who are behind the aluminium mill and the expansion of the Sunndalsøra, the Worm Lange or the Hustadmarmor, have to sit and regret that they took hold, with the uncertainty that today's government has actually given them. And so the council says, well, this government has the ambition that Mid-Norway will not be a separate price range. But what kind of road in the world is it that you navigate after when you know that there is a lack of power and a lack of lines and reduced competition, not least, because you now allow Statkraft to gain even greater market dominance in this area by choosing to park the Competition Authority's intervention against Statkraft, which was taken care of by Trondheim Energiewerk? In fact, one also chooses to outrun the expertise we have in the country, the closest to giving advice to the Government, Statnett. And you choose to ignore the advice and instructions given by the three major companies in Central Norway: there is only one solution in the future that can answer how to deal with the power crisis, namely the construction of a gas power plant. Then you better take the discussion about the address of the gas power plant. It's almost so I hear Vera Lynn or Doris Day in the background when I hear the council telling me how to deal with the crisis in Central Norway. So what happens, it happens -- we'll see what's going to happen. We see that the new government says no to the development of, for example, Wefsna. Uncertainty has been created around future oil and gas expansion, 19th concession round, the Norwegian Sea, the Barents Sea. A green certification scheme is now suddenly perhaps parked, or where it's added, it doesn't know. Uncertainty is submitted and no to Wefsna, no to gas power development that allows you to deal with the crisis, and you have said no to the green certification system. The previous government at least made sure that we had and have record investments on a Norwegian base, it had prepared a scheme with a green certificate and in the area by area indicated a solution. So now it's no, no, no that characterizes evolution. It is allowed in the debate to say that this is due to the previous government, and that the description of the interpellant's reality, for which the government's closest advisers are also doing well, is wrong at all points. The only hope now, if you're not to hope for collapse in the industry, hope that the industry in Helgeland collapses, or hope that the industry in Central Norway collapses, is that the government is now able to give any advice, and that you can't live any longer with a decision-making crisis. It actually deserves Mid-Norway to be able to get a clear answer to: What is the solution in the future, not in the back?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e428	It is a topical matter, but in no way a new matter we have for discussion today. The size is treated for approx. two years back the expansion of the Worm Lange, and there were several of us who then warned against the force situation that, among other things, the project was involved in triggering in More and Romesdal. Then we heard that this is going perfectly well, this is okay. We warned at the time and said that with all the projects that are in More and Romesdal, we will go against a situation where we get good choices again. As the situation is today, we're going to turn every rock, and then we're going to mean every rock, to get a situation in Middle Norway that's better than the one we have today. We're going to turn all the stones on the consumption side, we're going to turn all the stones in terms of new renewable production, and we're also going to get to what the previous government didn't get, a big effort to get to gas power plants with CO2 deposition. I need a little visit to the situation we have in More and Romesdal regarding the relationship to the Energy Act and the relationship between supply and demand. There must be a paradox for someone who believes in that theory at least, that there is definitely a demand for more power, but there are no producers who say that there is something profitable to get started. It might have to be a small market failure, or what is it? Is this liberalised energy market not working to actually get new production out? For it is true, as some have stressed: Statoil, although it has been granted a concession, regardless of the requirements, will not build gas power plants on the Tent Goods with the prices that are currently on gas, and with the prices that you can get to sell Norwegian power on the Nordic market. You just have to take that inward. I think there's a little bit of fate irony in this case that some of that that, if you put a value chain for CO2, can help the gas power plant with CO2 deposition become profitable, is precisely the CO2 deposit, because the demand for CO2 if we put in the value chain, can be involved in and run the utility of power generation. It's the irony of fate, but it can be true. Then I react to the way in which interpellant Løvik talks about the climate problem. I thought it was the way the Right was behind the Kyoto climate agreement, and in the Kyoto climate agreement, it is linked so that emissions on Norwegian soil respond to Norway. The interpellant talks like it's that if we drop things out here, we get minus in our climate accounting. It's not like that. Both the representatives of the Progress Party and the representatives of the Right today talk as if climate emissions do not have a cost. Climate emissions have a cost with the climate agreement, and the choice we are facing then is: should we, as I might assume that the representative Løvik means, go to Russia or other countries and buy allowances at a price we don't know what is, maybe 200 kroner per. tonne, maybe 400 kroner per tonne. tons? Or should we say, no, you know what, instead of doing that, we're going to invest in new technologies and jobs in Norway, and be involved in driving out what can make us solve the problem in the long term? It's offensive. That's what we're doing in relation to the Tent Credits, we're saying: now we're faced with an important choice, we're going to be involved in creating jobs, we're going to be involved in developing technology that can be the technology that makes us get the problem solved, and not just buy ourselves free by buying allowances we don't even know what's going to cost. A little visit to the Progress Party: I thought it was positive what I read in the newspapers this weekend, that the Progress Party would now be involved and contribute to the effort to get CO2 deposits. Then I think it might be a little strange to mention the amazing technology and environmental project as it is, in the negative order they've done from the pulpit here today. Because we get to that, it's amazing, not just for Norway, but it can be involved in putting Norway on the map internationally and making us contribute to solving the very greatest challenge we have in the environment, namely climate, which we can be very proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e459	High consumption combined with stagnated production has led to that we do not now cover our electricity consumption with self-produced hydropower; we also need to import energy from, among other things. coal-fired power stations abroad. This is not just a capacity problem. It's also a consumer problem. If we are to build ourselves out of this gap, we must tackle this challenge in several ways. We need to save and streamline the use of the resources at our disposal. We need to modernise existing power plants, and we need to carefully refurbish the grid for already developed watercourses. We must also realise that we must give the market more power. The prospects for the future in central Norway highlight the challenges we face on a national basis in the coming years. The national association of energy companies suggests that there is a risk of network breakdown in Central Norway as early as 2008 due to large voltage falls. That is why we must have an active policy that can increase security of supply. If we are to avoid a power crisis, we need to reduce our electricity consumption, shift the energy supply to renewable energy sources and increase flexibility in terms of which energy sources we use for heating. In practice, this means that we need to invest in Norwegian renewable energy and in gas power stations with CO2 management, which can replace energy forms with high greenhouse gas emissions. Today is about 95 pst. of natural gas produced for export. The Christian People's Party wants to use a larger proportion of our gas resources in Norway. In the February EBL study this year, 58 pst. of whom asked positive to gas power stations. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate the construction of gas power plants with CO2 management from the first day, because with the large emissions of greenhouse gases we have in the world today, it would be irresponsible not to require CO2 management. This is not madness, as it has been presented in the debate earlier today. We need to use technology to capture CO2, and we need to use technology to return this back to the base to help produce more oil in existing fields. So this will be both a good energy project and a good environmental action. Even more in the EBL study are more positive to wind power than to gas power. A total of 64 pst. is positive for the use of wind power. Wind power is an important part of achieving more renewable energy. Wind power, with the natural assumptions Norway has, could provide a significant contribution of renewable energy to our country. At the same time, when we are going to exploit this potential, it is important that wind power generation takes place in a sustainable way and also in areas where the level of conflict is manageable. We currently have a particularly high consumption of electricity because we use so much of our electricity for heating. The Christian People's Party will increase the level of ambition for energy conversion, so that the bet will trigger 15 TWh per. years by 2010. This includes, among other things: important to increase the use of waterborne heat, both in new buildings and in refurbished buildings. Biofuels that ate and pellets are renewable energy that can largely replace the use of electricity for heating and are practical and environmentally friendly heating solutions. Pellet kilns generate low emissions of particulate matter and have a combustion up to 90 pst. When we had a very cold winter for some years back, so many of the consumers were looking for alternative types of firing. Those who converted to pellet firing during this period were partly financed with the support of Enova. This arrangement no longer exists, and the sale of pellet shale has therefore decreased. I will now challenge the Council of State to reorganise such a scheme in the context of the revised national budget. This will give consumers time to plan purchases in time for the autumn and for the winter season 2007. I hope that the Government will be in favour of such an economic and also environmentally friendly energy option, which must also be in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, as I read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e488	I want to start by saying that this is a terriblely important debate. It's already been important for a while, and it's good that it's being dragged into the staging room. However, it is difficult to start this debate without commenting on the opinion of the inter-pellant, and especially the opinion of the Right, on this debate. My reality is that you, and especially from the Right side, have gone into this situation with open eyes. You sat with the Minister of Oil and Energy in the last government. You had and should have had a full overview of the situation. Nevertheless, no action was taken to address these challenges. We know that, for example, if we now make investment decisions to build sufficient transfer capacity into the region, it will not be in place until 2012, long after this problem has become a fact. We know that triggering new production could take significantly more time than the time available. I say this to underline the point made by the Council of State. These are problems that you've known a long time ago, and that you should have taken care of a long time ago. Then it is time to come and put the whole and full responsibility for the situation that has arisen, in captivity to the sitting government and the sitting council. I also want to stress that these are serious issues. It's been a long time since we've been in a situation where we've been talking about disconnects and our own price ranges. Most of us believe I have been of the opinion that such a quality in the planning of important infrastructure belongs to completely different places than in Norway. The situation we see in Middle Norway is the result of successful industrial start-ups at More. That's good, and it represents a development that we want. The center party believes that electricity is some of the things that have to be in place in a modern and well-functioning society. The situation in Central Norway raises questions about the functioning of the supply situation and security of supply in our market-based electricity supply system. So we have a situation where there is a great lack of power, without the system being able to bring in new production. Our liberalized electricity legislation has worked well in a period of profit. This may indicate that it is functioning worse during a deficit period. Incentives are at least not strong enough to re-establish sufficient production. The situation in Central Norway is special, but my prediction is that we are going to see the same thing in the rest of the country. The trend is also relatively clear. I say this because I want to mention that through the notified review of the Energy Act, the Centre Party will focus on power balance and security of supply in a completely different way from today. Then to the action room in Mid-Norway. We need to take action to meet the challenges that lie there. I want to say right away that there is one thing we should not do, and that is to establish a separate price range in Middle Norway that is so high that you phase out consumption. This means, in fact, that the power-intensive industry in Central Norway is to be shut down because there is not enough power there. It's in our opinion a space of action that doesn't exist. There are three strategies left: you have to increase production, you have to increase transfer capacity, and you have to reduce general consumption, just like in the rest of the country. Our perception is that we have to take hold of and do all of these things. Something can be solved through new renewable energy. There's a lot of opportunities for that in Middle Norway too. You don't have to flirt with the wind power potential. Only on the Fosen is it on 1 TWh. But it's been focused on gas here, and it's being launched as the only option to meet the challenge you're facing. And then it's said that the reason you don't get gas power plants is strange cleaning requirements. It's a reality that I don't share. There has been a concession granted to gas power plants in central Norway without a cleaning requirement for six years, without it being realised. I was present at the Statoil Conference on Tent Goods, where they said immediately that they will not realise any gas power plant with the gas prices that are today, nor without requirements for cleaning. It would have been more constructive if the opposition could have made the reality assessment that this is the case, and then it could have made constructive proposals on how to use Norwegian gas in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e508	I'd like to join in the mole-hearted worry box that's now here in the hall, which is one of the most consensual that I've experienced politically. We are all aware of what we are doing in Central Norway, and especially in More and Romesdal, simply a crisis in 2009–2010. We're also all a few about, as I see it, that we need to have gas power plants. And then the question is, with or without cleaning? In addition to that, we need to focus on coming up with parallel measures on other energy sources. I am amazed that the Minister of Energy now says he wants to stimulate wind power and small-scale power plant development in parallel, but still does not get this in place with a green certificate, which is now the biggest barrier for us to put in place wind power and small-scale power plant development in a sensible way. On the other hand, I will not join in what Right now says, that it is necessary to build a gas power plant without cleaning. I think the Right is old-fashioned, which doesn't want to be part of what the Government now has in view, that it's possible to install a gas power plant with cleaning. I want to give the Government full support for what has been said in the Soria Moria Declaration on the construction of gas power plants with CO2 handling. In addition, the Left also thought it was good to talk about energy savings. No one's talking about it anymore. But look what we do in our privacy, in our public life and in our business! We never think of saving power anymore. In my childhood we had a needle that stood on the wall and dirra, and when it was over-consumption, Dad went and struck off the hot tub. We never think like that. No, we build a cabin, and we build heating cables in every direction. We can re-examine the idea of energy savings. And then I feel like we're here and we owe each other. I agree with what Heidi Sørensen says, that there is a clear signal that this theme was costed under the carpet at the Worm Lange extension, and also at the Hydro Aluminium extension. It must be both the Workers' Party, which only talks about jobs, and the Centre Party, which had the chairman at the time during the Worm Lange construction and at the time of the design there, with others taking responsibility for it. When it comes to the Progress Party, they are about to phase out the construction of nuclear power stations, and the leader in the selection for it has seats in More and Romesdal. They've never been offensive to new technology. Then we're left with how gas power plant bags have to be dissolved. Governments have said that the government will invest fully in gas power plants, but it is uncertain whether companies will invest in gas power stations without cleaning. Then we have to look at the possibilities. And the value chain, as Bellona has presented, is one of them. I think it's very positive, and there must be opportunities for the economy in it and to see that economy together. Together, we have to take this in with the Kyoto quota, which we have to buy if we don't solve it. It's also a price that the government has to pay anyway. In addition to that, we need to have large introductory lines. And one of the lines of introduction that's going to go over two nature conservation areas is going to cost $1.2 billion. Why can't we do what we did with tunnels and ferries? These funds must be transferred from Statnett's input to the construction of a gas power plant. It must be much more sensible to build the force where it is needed than to take it from other parts of the country, which requires the large lines in the hundred meter belt through our natural areas. In addition, I would like to say something to the right council today about the addition of a gas power plant with cleaning. It doesn't think we're saying that it's not a company that's ready to deal with this. With all the possibilities that exist for another financing of this, the Council of State must also say that the Government is willing to enter, so that it is built. I am pleased that the Council of State today says that there should not be higher prices of power in More and Romesdal than elsewhere. But now we also have to get the answer to how we are going to solve the crisis in the future. The government must bring in incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e537	The power situation in central Norway, which the interpellant and the Council of State have both pointed to, is very demanding. It's clear that if we're not going to go straight into a crisis, it's going to have to go to a split layer all over the line. And then I mean a proper splinter layer, both by the state and the district, and not least by the company that is established in the area, which has certain concessions on the base. Every single stone has to be turned in order to get this done, and we're going to have to do this. We are also in the situation that, even if new production is introduced into the area via wind power, biopower and others, that will not be enough. It'll just be a supplement. In other words, we are faced with two realistic scenarios. It is either to build a gas power plant, with the handling it requires, or to provide power input into the region. Both parts will take time, but we also have to look at them simultaneously. For us in the Workers' Party, the use of domestic gas is very clearly formulated in the Soria Moria Declaration. That's our future bet area. There's a point by point listed in the government statement what we're going to do in this area. The government has now been sitting for 100 days, but we're going to get this done when we put rocks on the rock. It is clear that gas power plants per Today it is not profitable, and it is per year. Moreover, today is not a full CO2 market. But combined with a high energy demand in Central Norway and a CO2 stock that can be used in a few years to absorb more oil, this will be profitable. This will make gas power plants economically, economically and environmentally viable. And that's this triangle we have to see this in. For the Workers' Party, it is important that gas production is carried out within the framework and obligations of the Kyoto Agreement and that it must be part of the international allowances system in order to ensure that total CO2 emissions do not increase. It is therefore important that a gas power plant – if it is built and it needs to be built – has to have CO2 management, and there needs to be good solutions for the landfilling and subsequent use of CO2. I was a little surprised at the weekend, and a little happy too, when I saw and heard the show of the Advance Party. I asked myself the question: is the progress party in all directions? Because what I could read out of it means that the Progress Party is now recognising climate change through CO2 emissions. I must say, then, that the party's previous policy and programme formulations in the field of the environment must fall to the fore. This will mean, with the play that the Progress Party now had this weekend, that there is a rather strong cross-political consensus on this. But I must be allowed to quote the programme of the Progress Party in this area. It says on page 36, where they're talking about our CO2 problem, and that it's based on incomplete scientific evidence: ‘It is therefore appropriate to avoid wasting scarce resources on implementing a number of symbolic measures against CO2 emissions without any demonstrable impact.’ Now I quoted the program of the Advance Party, but what they said this weekend was something completely different, and I'm very happy about that. I would like to go on to say that when gas power solutions are set up with CO2 handling, the cap can become a landfill for large amounts of CO2. We have to be able to use CO2 to get more oil and gas. It is now very important that social profitability be assessed in these projects, and we need to see the gas pipeline, the power generation and reinjection of CO2 in a total context. It's important. I appreciate that this interpellation was raised, but I would have liked to see in many ways that the interpellant was a little more humble when, despite everything, the Right has been sitting and driving, even the Minister of Energy, for four years. They haven't actually lifted a single finger to meet this situation in Middle Norway. It's a disclaimer without equal. I also have to say that the answer we received when we previously asked these questions to the minister who had this responsibility was: Yes, if it's so profitable, then just started, but we don't want anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e592	This interpellation is very topical and in reality reveals the major national power supply challenges that Norway is now facing. The situation in central Norway is just the beginning of a major and announced power crisis in Norway. I will allow myself to refer to a notice in the Evening Post on February 7, by adm. dir. Finn Bergersen, Jr., of the Society's Main Organisation and Adm. You. Steinar Bysveen of the National Association of Energy Enterprises, entitled ‘A Powerless Energy Nation’. A little quote from there: "We've painted into a corner. By constantly turning the thumb down for new power, we have a growing power deficit that threatens security of supply for most people and their businesses. [[...]] In the energy nation of Norway, we have to import around six billion kilowatt-hours of normal rainfall this year – approximately equivalent to Oslo’s annual consumption. The situation on Møre is just the last example of a worrying trend.’ Before this debate, I was concerned, among other things, with: Internet pages of the Central Party. There I found the headline: Power Crisis in Middle Norway – what now? The center party says there's no doubt that we need more power. We need to build up more hydropower, it says on the Center Party website, and: ‘Green certificates will mean a lot to bring in new power generation.’ But what happened to green certificates? Well, this is completely messed up. We looked forward to setting up a common Norwegian-Swedish system by 1 January 2007, but this is now completely cooked up in the cabbage. This is probably symptomatic of the lack of energy policy that this government has. I would also like to point out that there was a survey conducted by the EBL recently where it was found that eight out of ten asked that there was a need for investment and new power. 58 pst. In Norway, therefore, some of the questions asked are for new gas power plants. For several years, the political majority in Norway has opposed the development of new power generation in Norway. One hydropower project after another has either been severely reduced or completely stopped. The result is that we have experienced an ever-increasing power shortage that threatens security of supply in Norway dramatically. The Progress Party has for a number of years warned against this development, but without, unfortunately, getting a special hearing here in Stortinget. It is therefore with great concern that the Progress Party must note that the current government does not show the will or ability to actively address the power challenges that are now emerging more and more rapidly in this country. Both industry and private households need a stable supply of electricity at the lowest possible price. This year's situation is that the electricity price has doubled compared to last year. Most recently – I see that the Council of State does not even bother to listen to the article – yesterday I addressed this with an increase in the electricity prices with the Council of State Enoksen in the Question Time of Storting. I tried to identify the underlying reasons for the price increase. The answer from the oil and energy minister was not uplifting. It was directly shattered, and it gave no good solution to what the Government will do to meet the energy challenges Norway is facing. So my point of view is that the red-green government will be a disaster for the Norwegian security of supply in the future if what we have seen so far of a lack of power policy will continue. Gas power is an effective way of adding significantly increased capacity to the Norwegian and Nordic power market, but then we do not have to have any strange CO2 requirements and a blatant government that does not know what it will do to the gas power issue. The Progress Party therefore requires the construction of several hydropower plants in Norway, but not least the construction of a number of gas power plants, preferably with the same framework conditions for the construction of gas power plants in other countries. It is alarming that, in my view, it is only the Progress Party that has for a long time taken seriously the strained force situation we have in Norway. It is now important to ensure access to new power. The progress party is ready for that, and we keep asking ourselves, what are the other parties really reluctant to do? Have you not understood the seriousness of the situation? The power crisis is on its way, and – I was saying – it is time for us to take this seriously. In view of the developments that have occurred — and the Progress Party has long pointed out — there is every reason for active action.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e623	The President would point out that the'svada expression' is not a very good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e626	Initially, I would like to make a small comment to the representatives Borten Moe and Nordtun. I must remind them that the previous government is renewing three gas power plants concessions for conventional gas power plants. One of these was actually started up before the majority government joined. It is the majority government that has created significant uncertainties, with requirements for CO2 cleaning also for them, without indicating how this should be resolved. It is almost four months since I asked the Council of State how this was to be handled, but I have not yet registered any response to this. As late as a week before the election, Nordtun's representative had a chronicle in Haugesund's newspaper where he almost demanded that the gas power stations be built. So now the pipe has a different sound. Mid-Norway's power deficit is serious. I am surprised that the government does not take this matter more seriously. I hear the council says today that he does, but it remains to be seen whether this results in action. It's not useful to stick your head in the sand and think that something solves itself. Here, active action must be taken, and in a way that gives confidence and predictability to business operators. It is, after all, all those who will see to it that this crisis is resolved. The situation in Central Norway is not unique. This is a national problem. I will therefore raise my eyes a little bit and look a little further south of the West, where we are in exactly the same situation. In Mongstad, Statoil has one of the largest refineries in northern Europe, with a capacity of 9 million tonnes of oil per year. years. They have applied for a concession on an energy plant, which will provide a much more environmentally and energy-efficient solution, with an efficiency of up to 80 pst. The heating plant will also provide enough power to replace today’s land supply of electricity, from the ordinary network to the Troll A platform, and also provide 40 megawatts of power in the network. So this is a columbi egg with a common energy solution for Troll and Mongstad. But it also solves another problem, namely the electricity deficit that is also in this area. Statnett has proposed a new power line from Sima to Samnanger to remedy this situation. A power line voltage along the entire Hardangerfjord is controversially environmental and has raised a storm of protests. The energy plant in Mongstad can provide a breathing room for this acute situation, but then the council must act quickly. The Hordaland bench was recently visited by Statoil Mongstad and was clearly informed back that the concession and the permit must be in place during the spring, otherwise the entire project will stop, so there is actually no time to lose. Mongstad has a significant environmental problem today, so here's a win-win situation that I expect the Minister of Oil and Energy to be well aware of. I'm counting on him to provide the work to solve this power deficit and the treatment of the concession for Mongstad, and also the situation for Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e647	I usually praise the interpellant for good initiative etc., but in this case I don't want to do it, rather the opposite. Because I do not see the interpellation as a good contribution to resolving a potential power crisis in More and Romesdal, rather as a shot to get up in Stortinget also the campaign that is going on to build gas power plants. It's fair enough to have a campaign to build gas power plants, but then one should be honest about that. The last shot on that campaign is the Protest Party's proposal on nuclear power – so there it is. Why not build a gas power plant in Norway? It's because of high oil and gas prices. We know, and it was said by the representative of Nordtun here earlier, that it takes a public and private team to get this done. I haven't seen a 50-eye from Shell yet, which last year spent 153 billion dollars in excess, or from Statoil, who spent over 30 billion dollars in excess. Where are private businesses recorded to get a split layer, and to get CO2 cleaning? It's the world's demand, it's the Middle Norway and the Moor and Romesdal demand. Then the private have to bring some money to that pot, not just in words. And then we'll see what we can bring in from here, when that time comes. But that it takes a spice layer to solve the problem, there is little doubt about it. So this crisis, insofar as it's a crisis, is primarily a failure sin of dimensions. The fact that we didn't expand alternative energy when the oil price was lower can explain and understand, but not that we're not doing it now, with the huge surpluses that oil revenues give us – that we're not then using the historic potential to do exactly what we're going to do, and as the youth expects us to do, simply to invest in future energy carriers in new renewable energy. This is a demand from the youth in More and Romesdal. The Church's Emergency Youth Organization Changemaker had a major seminary in the Fränna National Collection outside of Molde last weekend. They had a unanimous demand that we politicians be able to deliver something in relation to the global climate crisis. That's the message from the youth. Then we know that there's hardly a county in Norway that has better headquarters than More and Romesdal to operate with alternative energy. What is it that we lack there? Yes, there are plumbers, welders and engineers. What if a district heating system is to be built? Of course, plumbers and welders. What if a windmill is built? Yes, of course. Who is the best in the world to build gear? Yes, of course, it is the industry in More and Romesdal. We have to give our youth the risk that More and Romsdal will be a smaller should for the rest of the world. Then we also have to say that the workplaces are going to be next. Young people must have confidence that we really want to do something, trust that what we've seen will give concrete results. What we have to do is press the oil companies. They want to go north, where the oil and the gas are even easier and cheaper available. Instead, they should join Norway's largest split layer to develop the technology to make the CO2 part of the solution and not part of the problems. I'll go so far as to say that something can get out of this crisis. It could be that for the first time, we're going to bet on alternative energy sources. Foresters in More and Romesdal are waiting for this. They have bioenergy projects on the bed. It may be small in this context, but we know that we're sending the right signals to small and medium-sized enterprises out in the district of Norway, we're actually going to get results. We'll get TWh on sight. That we haven't done this before is not a good excuse for not starting with this right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e666	Young people must have faith in us. I'm a little in doubt about how the government's policy is suitable for the youth in More and Romesdal to have faith in this hall. What we are discussing today is really an adventure. It's the adventure of how Hustadmarmor exports more and more of its products, how Hydro Sunndalsøra is building up the world's most modern aluminium facilities, and how the Worm Lange also contributes to creating the values that we sit in this hall and benefit. The Worm Lange and Langeled shall supply the United Kingdom with 25 pst. of their gas needs. Otherwise, Norway gas goes to gas power stations in Europe and becomes gas power, with European clean-up requirements, as the Norwegian Government calls strongly polluting gas power. The power situation in Northern Ireland cannot and should not be seen as an isolated situation in Northern Ireland. It's about Middle Norway, and it's all about the rest of the power situation in the country. We have a power deficit in normal river basins that is getting bigger and bigger. The Government had the opportunity to do something about this by giving a clear signal that a green power certificate, a technology-neutral Scandinavian green power certificate regime would be introduced from 1 January 2007. This would have given a signal to those actors that have plans for development but have not yet taken their investment decision. The representative Sørensen pointed out that the market has not worked and that is why we have a power crisis. It provokes me. Many projects have been presented in this house, and either they have been severely decimated, or they have been totally rejected. Possibilities of Helgeland, which is close to those regions with a power deficit, could have produced 1.5 TWh clean energy with minimal environmental interventions. All of this has led many actors to stop designing new capacity. They're satisfied with the situation as it is today. The representative Sørensen and more with her have shown a reduction in private consumption as an instrument in this context. When we know that the total deficit in Central Norway in 2009 will be 9 TWh, and that the total private consumption in the same region is 3 TWh, we should understand that this is symbolism policy and not real policy. The consequences of the government’s policy are that we will continue to export gas to the so-called highly polluting gas power plants in Europe, while in Norway we will have an ever-increasing deficit and need to import more and more gas and coal power from Europe. It is also necessary to build power lines through two Norwegian national parks, between Sogn and Nordmøre. I don't understand how this can be more environmentally friendly than making sure that one or more gas plants are built in the region that has a problem today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e683	I am pleased with the support I have received when it relates to the problem description itself today. The vast majority of us are also certain that some form of gas power is necessary in order to resolve this crisis. But it kind of becomes a little bit of an Orwelly novelty over it when the one after the other stands out and says it's the solution. The problem is that this will take time. Right is also for a solution with CO2 handling. We share the visions that have emerged, that this can be very good in the long term, but we're going to keep society going in the dangerous middle. Of course, it could have been constructed several transfer lines in the past. But what would you have transferred? An imported force would have been transferred from far more impurising sources than the current gas power. It'll be embarrassing when both the Council of State and several representatives from the Government Party are indebted to the previous government. That is now the case. There is now a need to decide on the resulting concession requests. It's about the Tent Goods, and it's about the applications that might come into other contexts. The representative Mr. Borten Moe called for constructive proposals, and he will receive them. The first is that the Danish State Council of Enoksen and the Government will have to do a complete turnaround and a seven-way approach in order for Norway to join a Nordic – possibly a Swedish-Norwegian – renewable energy certificate market. This issue does not solve the problems, but it will be a very important addition to the power supply in the long term. Secondly, the government must say yes to Statoil's application to build gas power plants on the RV, in line with the recommendations of the government's own trade directorate, NVE, so that we can quickly remedy the pressure situation in the region. Then I get a possible clean-up of CO2 later, as one has added on Kårstø. Gas power with today's technology is more environmentally friendly and will meet the Kyoto agreement's intentions rather than continue to import power produced by far more impure methods. The centre party and also others from the government party locally, both in Møre and Romesdal and in Trøndelag, have the order to build gas power plants on the Tent Goods first, without cleaning from the first day, and then clean later. Here, the Danish State Council should listen to their local parties and also to the many local representatives who fear the consequences of doing nothing — and talk a lot. Finally, I want to challenge State Council Enoxen to be a little more concrete. Since the Council of State shares the problem description very much and sees this coming, and because he knows we don't have time for the ideal solution, which will come later, will he do anything concrete to remedy the situation we know we'll be coming in a few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e710	There are relatively many questions that have arisen. It will not be possible to answer them all in three minutes, but let us establish the following: We agree with the description of the situation that we will get in this region over not too long. We're going to have a very demanding supply situation, which, first of all, we're not going to take this opportunity to make more drama out of it than it's supposed to be. It is necessary to take action in this area to ensure that we have a secure and stable energy supply, both in a long-term perspective and to remedy the situation that may arise in a three-year period. What the government is doing, and what we've already done, is, as a point 1, to help increase production in this area. It is not the government that builds up, nor the Storting. There are others. It is the actors in this industry who are going to expand. What we can do is contribute financially and contribute quickly. That's what we're planning to do. Here I would like to shoot into what the representative Halleraker brought up: he asked me to deal with the concession request quickly, if I understood him correctly. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, my department, is not a concession officer. It's the NVE that is. My department is the appeal authority for decisions taken by the NVE. There is already a decision from the NVE, but an application for an emission permit must also be considered. We will help to treat it as quickly as possible. Point 2 concerns the planning of line capacity, in line with what Statenet is now doing. It is intended to ensure that the necessary administrative procedures in this context can also be carried out as quickly as possible. But it is Statnet itself that is responsible for implementing both planning and investment. What we can do, and which we will contribute to the extent necessary, is equity and what goes on as soon as possible. To the extent necessary, we will contribute to this. As I have said repeatedly, also in the Questionnaire yesterday, the government is working intensively to put in place a certificate market – hopefully from 1 January 2007. I hope we will succeed, but a certification market will not solve the specific problem we have in Central Norway. There's got to be another thing. Then I would like to say to those who have pointed to production opportunities in the Helgeland area, that it requires a line drive to Middle Norway that will not be finished until 2016. There is therefore definitely no solution to bet on expanding e.g.. Webbing to provide power to Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e729	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e741	We then go to voting on case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e775	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-16.ana.ud746e786	There is no record.
