ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e64	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is unanimously elected President of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Bjørg Tørresdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e71	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and myself, I will put forward a proposal on action against trafficking in human beings and prostitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e92	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e101	The Storting representatives Holmberg and Höie have made a proposal that the Stortinget should ask the Government to impose stricter maintenance requirements in the event of family reunification. Firstly, the need for more stringent maintenance requirements and clarification of legislation by the proposers is a desire for a closer and better integration policy for its inhabitants, but also for the whole family after reunification. Furthermore, it shall be an objective that persons coming to Norway through family immigration should either provide for themselves or be provided by its residents and not by the Norwegian community. The majority of the Committee will point out that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion is now working on proposals for new foreign law. The majority believe that it would be natural and most appropriate for the maintenance requirement to be assessed in this context. It is important that the whole family immigration policy is seen as a whole, and the rules on maintenance requirements are a central part of this policy. Therefore, we do not want to make changes to the existing legislation now, but await the overall assessment that will be made in the context of the work on new foreign law. In the preparation of the Foreign Affairs Act, it will be important to listen carefully to all inputs before making the final decision. Representatives refer to Document No. 8:24 up an important issue, which we will be able to discuss in full length until the fall, but then more holistically and seen in a larger context. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e116	Whether we're talking about family start-ups or about family immigration in general, the starting point of the Progress Party is that there's a choice you make at the moment you go to the step of picking up a spouse outside the country's borders. In that case, it should be reasonably clear that the individual, being resident, may be able, in combination with the income of the person arriving in the country, to care for his or her own interests without burdening society. It's a choice you make, and that's why it should also be the starting point for the economic aspects of it. But there's also a page here that's very important, and it's going on in the integration process. We believe that by increasing the requirements for entertainment, it will also make it easier for individuals to be integrated into Norwegian society. It has also been pointed out that these are measures that can clearly be included in a package to combat coerciveness, involuntary marriages and pro forma marriages, i.e. marriages that are not based on love. It is referred to that there will be a new foreign law. The Foreign Affairs Act should be revised and brought to the State of Stortingen for treatment. I do not know what the situation is with the internal negotiations between the government parties, and I am afraid that it may go a long way before that proposal comes to Stortinget. When we know that increased demands for maintenance have been carefully assessed, it should not be impossible to implement that part of the changes already now, so that we do not wait for a new foreign law. Another side of this is that I want to move forward, which is that this is one of the measures that, among other things, Denmark has put in place efforts to limit family immigration. We are constantly talking about the problems of integration policy in Norway, the challenge we face in getting new citizens integrated into Norwegian society. Here we have a big challenge, and no one has been able to point to the solution that is needed to get it done properly. Recognising that the integration policy in Norway has failed, the first thing to do should actually be to put the brake on immigrants who come to Norway every year and settle here and who are increasingly increasing the challenge on the integration side. This is one of the measures we have pointed out, and it is one of the measures that Denmark has successfully implemented. That is why we should also see this in the context of immigration policy, because it will help to limit immigration to Norway, and it will be a good step forward to promote integration, because the first job in terms of integration policy is to reduce immigration so that it becomes sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e127	I would like to mention the proposal of the minority in the Committee. It is very disappointing that the majority reject this proposal. Even more disappointing is the fact that the Council of State has not implemented this measure. There is a significant difference between this Document No. The 8 proposal and the other two we are going to discuss today. The other two involve a change in the Foreign Affairs Act, and they involve new measures that have not been consulted. The proposal presented in this document No. The 8 proposal is a proposal that does not require a change in the Foreign Affairs Act. The proposal was at the hearing, it was done in the department, and it was on the Council of State's table when he took responsibility for this area, but was thus trained. I believe that this is a proposal on which there is broad political agreement. The only consequence of the training of this matter by the Council of State is that the integration work is being pushed out in time. It is disappointing and very incomprehensible that the government chooses this approach to the matter. The proposal for a stricter maintenance contribution aims at improving the integration work of both residents and those through family reunification. It is also the case that in the population there is a clear perception that people who come through family reunification should not be cared for by Norwegian society, but mainly take care of themselves, be cared for by residents, or in a combination of these. So this should initially be a completely uncontroversial proposal, which should be feasible. The problem is that this is not the only proposal from the previous government, which has not been implemented by the current one with the excuse that you want to see it in whole. One also has the proposal relating to abuses against women and children, i.e. restraining effects in expulsion cases when the victims are children and women in the family. This is a matter that could have been implemented by the current government – it has been completed and developed by the previous government – but is being trained. One also has a proposal that the previous government was criticised for not implementing quickly enough, namely the proposal to amend the foreign regulation in relation to the requirement that a person in the marriage contract be equally entitled to divorce. In total, this means that important steps that can be taken in cases where there is broad political consensus are not implemented but trained. I would like to ask the Council of State in its statement to justify why one does not implement these measures, as these are measures that have been out for consultation and for which there is no reason to wait. A waste of time in areas where there is a broad political consensus that it is important to make fundamental action. It is not that the review of a new foreign law is a new matter, because there the previous government has done a large part of the work. And it was not without reason that the previous government lifted these matters out of that work and conducted consultations faster. This was because it was thought that these measures were urgent and that these were measures that could be implemented in the context of the existing law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e138	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e141	There are actually many aspects to this matter that deserve a great and thorough debate, and we will come back to this later. I agree with the statements made by the rapporteur. This case shall be dealt with in its entirety in the context of the overall review of the law on discharge. I would just like to make a few brief comments on the article by the representative of the Progress Party. It is pointed out that there is a need to implement a stricter family immigration policy. It became clear here that the main objective is not to combat coerciveness, which has emerged in the past, but, as in Denmark, to reduce family immigration. At this point, I expect in the future a little more honesty and clarity in the statements of the Progress Party when taking this discussion. If you want to reduce family immigration to Norway, in view of the fact that this creates major integration problems, I think that you should look at these 10,000 to 14,000 people who come to family reunification each year, and then you should pick out those you think you should not be allowed to come to Norway. If you set a limit, you want the figure down, you start by looking at which people you think are creating so big problems for integration policy in Norway that they should not be allowed to come. Then we had a debate that had been proper. I have challenged the Progress Party on this for the four years I have been on the municipal committee, and also in the past: when you say in your party programme that you should include 1 000 non-Western immigrants, then I would like a clear answer to which immigrants and what family-reunited people there are you don't think you should be allowed to come to Norway. It would have been a clarifying response from the Progress Party. The clarifying answer I have noticed is difficult to get out of the Progress Party. It's possible that we can get an article about this a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e150	I would like to stress that anyone who tries to present this as simple and uncontroversial cannot have worked very much on this subject. The question is, what is the real objective of introducing such a higher limit? If the aim is to reduce immigration, as it is in practice in Denmark, it is an honest way to do so, but if it is a good way to discuss it. So the question is whether this works in relation to coercion. I've been looking at this in England. England has a model where one must have a certain amount of money on the book to pick up the spouse. There is something that leads to the creative transfer of money on book, where a family eventually builds up a fortune that you send around from account to account as you are going to collect a spouse – hardly very limiting on forced marriage, hardly very limiting on immigration, and hardly very wise. Our pay model is better. It has an intention that a person who has his own income also has a certain freedom by the fact that the spouse who comes actually comes because of the person's free choice. But this isn't as simple as it can work. I am also a little shocked by the vision of the Advancement Party. They believe that if the person you are going to marry in Norway does not have a high enough salary, the person who comes here will probably go social. I got an e-mail this morning, about the Left's proposal on a love visa, from an older man who is married to a foreign lady. They have children who have passed 30, so it's been a while since he picked up his wife from Norway. He wrote that if someone went through his generation and looked at what wives and men who have been brought into Norway have contributed, to research, to important jobs and to the development of this country, one would see that it has given a quite dramatic boost to the country. Obviously, it's not necessarily that if you pick up a spouse, if you don't have enough income, that spouse will end up in social life. Among other things, I have worked with a lot of girls who do something as stupid as falling in love with a highly educated man from another continent. But because you're under education and living on a student loan, you don't have the opportunity to bring him here. So to present this as simple and stereotyped for it to fit into the picture of the Progress Party of what a spouse who has been picked up is to simplify. I think that the level of love is not related to the income of employees. It seems like we're now creating a system where the degree of love of another human being depends on how much money you have. I don't believe in that. I think we need to have a much more differentiated system. We need a system that is much more focused. I must honestly admit that I'm incredibly disappointed in the Right, who's been jumping at this as an easy solution, without seeing how complex this is, and without seeing that you probably kill a lot of love marriages, because someone never gets the one they love the most, come here to the country because they don't have enough income.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e169	I have to start by saying that I share a lot of the evaluations with the previous speaker. These are complicated and demanding questions, with many dilemmas, which it may be difficult to go into, but it's important that we do it. We have to be able to go into what is also difficult. But I think it's very important that we do it as comprehensively as possible, in order to be able to deal with the complexity of the questions we're facing. It is the case that the history of the law on foreigners is characterized by the fact that there is a law that is very narrow in its text, there are very general paragraphs in the law, and then there is a variety of regulations that are actually Norwegian foreign policy. Those regulations have been revised back and forth a little like that ad hoc in recent years. Just that analysis was what made the previous government so wise that now we have to have a complete review of the Foreign Affairs Act, which is going to lead us to it that if you sit down and read the law, you can see what Norwegian foreign policy is. I think that's particularly important in a foreign law, so that people who want to get an overview of Norwegian foreign policy can get it by reading the law. This is why a broad process was initiated with a separate NOU, a legislative committee, which has come up with its position which has been at wide consultation. Then we take the whole complexity of this policy area to review in the ministry and we're going to the Stortinget with it hopefully over the course of the year. Then we are going through the asylum policy, the refugee policy, the visa policy, which was the last speaker, and we are going through the family establishment/family reunification policy, that is, the whole and the breadth of it. Among the issues that obviously are important and demanding to work with are issues related to family start-up/family reunification. There will be a central theme in the work on new foreign law, not least because it also addresses such difficult issues as: coercion. In the government statement, we have said that we should establish new targeted, long-term measures to combat coerciveness. We therefore need new measures in place, and the new measures will, of course, affect the whole of the family establishment/family reunification policy. My point in relation to today's Document No. The eight-proposal is that I will try to avoid continuing this work of patching a regulation, while now we have a comprehensive review of the policy under work. It is clear that when we are about to adopt new measures, I am quite certain that this will also be a maintenance requirement in the future, but that maintenance requirement must then be dosed in relation to the new measures that will be put in place. It may well be that if you had done what the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted – introduced a new regulation – you would have come in a very short time and said that the regulation cannot apply, because now we have new measures in place that will require us to adjust existing policies. Instead of doing it now, I think we're wise to spend time and effort on an overall review. And then we have many questions for assessment, including: the questions raised in the next case — age limit questions. We have that openly and honestly in our assessment. Then we have to look at, if we were to conclude in relation to the age limit, what kind of meaning it might have for other parts of the family reunification policy. I think it's wise that we take time to do it that way now. Although it's always the case that everything is urgent, I think that we're going to take in from time to time politically that it might be wise to take some breaks and think thoroughly through things. At least the government has decided to do so, and then we come up with a comprehensive review of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e181	I hear what the Council of State says, that you intend and want to see the whole area of business in context. I have such an understanding of it. But now it seems that it may take a while to review the Foreign Affairs Act, and until it is in place, we are still in a situation where we do not have effective measures against forced marriage, nor do we have effective measures to limit general family immigration. Then I have a question to the Council of State. There is therefore no problem here in the specific area of action and good solutions can be found without having to go to a full audit. And then I ask, when can the Storting expect to get the new Foreign Affairs Act? Because there have been many different signals, including: from several members of the Government Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e187	I just have to first, when I'm going to answer the question, make sure that I don't agree with the reality description that the questioner puts into his question, but I don't spend any more time on it right now. Of course, it is that we could have adopted this amendment, and of course it is so that we can keep changing the regulations and legal texts attached to existing law until the day before the new law is passed. The point is that a government often has to consider that when you have so much audit work going on, you have to put a strategy in relation to what you do with the existing law until the new law is done. Our assessment is that we are now working as little as possible with the law that is in place, and are working as much as possible with the law that is to come. Our ambition is to present the proposal for a new foreign law in December of this year. Then, of course, in the form of letters, I shall inform the Storting as usual when it is finally decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e194	My question to the Council of State relates to the following: We have now learned that the Stortinget cannot submit a proposal for a new foreign law until December 2006 at the earliest. This is a big and complicated matter – as the Council of State was about to do – that we probably have to expect the Storting to have some time to deal with it. Does the Council not see that there is a difference in substance between the proposal we are now considering and the next two proposals we are going to consider? In parallel with the work on the new foreign law, the previous government raised this and some other issues and sent them to the hearing, in the light of existing foreign law. These are changes that only require regulatory changes. Hearings have been completed. There is broad support in several consultation bodies for the measures proposed. Does the Council not see that there is a difference between this measure and other measures, and that this is a measure that should and could have been implemented now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e199	I see, of course, that there is a difference between implementing a regulatory change that has been at the hearing and changing the law by introducing completely new elements. The representative, Höie, is absolutely right that we could have done it – if we had chosen to do it. Our starting point is that the maintenance requirement is such an important part of the whole debate on family start-up and family reunification that we do not want to make changes now when we at the same time assess completely new elements into this policy area, because it increases the risk of a jojo policy: we are doing one thing now, and in a relatively short time we will have to change it again. That is why we are now choosing to leave the maintenance requirement behind and see it in the context of the other proposals we want to make. It's a political choice, which of course it's allowed to disagree with. I give the questioner right that it would have been technically much easier to do it here than in the question we're dealing with in the next case, but the political assessment is what I've expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e208	I would like to ask the Council of State a very brief question. First of all, I'm recording that the Council of State is now calling this family establishment. It delights the Advance Party, which has long claimed that it is impossible to call the marriage for family reunification, because two who are not natural in the family are reunited – before they may get married. There are now almost 50,000 non-Western immigrants in Norway who are in what can be called ready-to-eat age. We know that 80 pst. of which they pick up spouses in the country of origin. The consequences of this will be a huge explosion in non-Western immigration to Norway in the coming years, if we do not take any action. My question is: Does the Council of State mean that approx. 20 000 non-Western immigrants to Norway each year are a sustainable immigration, when we know that the number of births in Norway is approx. 50,000? According to the Council of State, Norway can receive approx. 20 000 non-Western immigrants in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e219	It is a very comprehensive question — and demanding to answer in 1 minute. Let me first say that the reason why I use the concepts of family establishment and family reunification is that it's the kind of terms that the law committee itself uses. So they're establishing a distinction between the two. Now we're discussing the follow-up to the law commission. That's why I'm using those terms. On the issue, I would like to make it clear that the Government’s starting point for the work on family reunification/family establishment policy is not that we should use restrictions in this area as an instrument to reduce immigration to Norway. But we're very busy providing rules that can help prevent something that we'll spend a lot of energy fighting -- first of all what comes to light through coercion. I believe that the Minister of Immigration, as I am here now, in his talks with the Minister of Labour, is very pleased that we are getting some immigration to Norway in the time that is coming, because we will certainly need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e230	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e235	In an article earlier in the debate, the representative of SV came with some claims that I feel the need to refute. Firstly, the SV claims that our commitment to forced marriage is not real, because, as a point in itself, we also focus on the effects of introducing these types of measures to limit family immigration. It's actually going to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. These are effective measures against coerciveness, but at the same time effective measures to limit family immigration. Our commitment is not improper, but we are actually committed to two subject areas at the same time. And then you almost try to represent it as if there are certain groups of immigrants we don't want, that certain groups of immigrants are problematic. It must be acknowledged that cultural differences, cultural barriers, are of course an essential element in the problem of integration. Remote cultures are more difficult to integrate into Norwegian society than cultures closer to us. That in itself should really be a matter of course to understand. We have never addressed – and will never address – specific rules that should exclude some ethnic groups. This is not the policy of the Progress Party. We are a liberalist party that wants general rules that can be applied equally to everyone. This is an important principle in the rule of law. Of course, we do not intend to send out any mixed signals in this way. We want general rules that can be handled in a good way, just to get control of family immigration and forced marriage. It is fully possible to also get with the type of action we are going to deal with in the next case. Thus, these are general measures and not measures aimed at excluding some ethnic groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e255	The reason why I take the word again is the posts from both the left and the SV. The left said they were disappointed with the Right in this matter. It surprises me very much, because one could perceive the representative Trine Skei Grande so that she argued in principle against having an entertainment claim in connection with family reunification and family establishment. This is a little special given that the lot was involved both in introducing the entertainment contribution and in tightening up the maintenance requirement when they were in government. They also agreed to propose what the Right proposes today, when they put in government. I agree, of course, with Trine Skei Grande's approach to the issue of love and marriage. But that doesn't mean that the Left, as a social liberal party, can completely put away that people also have a personal responsibility to make sure to create circumstances for themselves and theirs that cause a society to be burdened as much as possible. There is also a substantial justification for this proposal. So to SV: This proposal does not only involve tightening up the maintenance requirement. This proposal also simplifies family reunification for children under the age of 15. Therefore, it is something special that SV in this case argues that you have good time, here one must hear everyone, and if it takes a year or two years before this change comes into effect, it does not do much. This is strange given that in April 2005, the representative May Hansen of SV raised the so-called Charly case against the then municipal minister Erna Solberg and felt it was urgent to change what she said was a ‘inhumane and heartbreaking policy the world’s richest country is leading towards young children’. So this so-called inhuman and heartbreaking policy that the world's richest country is pursuing against small children, which one believes is contrary to human rights and the Children's Convention, is not so much in a hurry for SV to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e264	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e280	At the request of the Social and Management Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This will be regarded as a confirmation. The first speaker is Bent Höie, who speaks on behalf of the spokesman in Saga, Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e291	The proposal now under consideration is put forward by the Progress Party, by Per-Willy Amundsen and Åge Starheim, and contains several proposals designed to prevent coercion. It is proposed that the Government should investigate and implement the 24 year age limit for family reunification with spouses, that family reunification by marriage be granted only if Norway is the country to which the couple has the largest overall relationship, and that enhanced family reunification and family establishment requirements be proposed. All parties, with the exception of the proposers, have, at the time of the examination of the matter within the Committee, agreed to attach the proposal to the Protocol on the grounds that, by letter of 27 February 2006 to the Committee, the Government will take new, long-term and targeted measures against forced marriage, and that the Government will follow this up in the work on new foreign law. Here, too, the measures proposed in Document No. The 8th proposal, be discussed. In reality, Document No: The 8th proposal contains three main instruments. One is an increased maintenance requirement, the other is a new attachment requirement, and the third is the age limit of 24 years in connection with reuniting with a spouse or the establishment of a spouse. As regards maintenance requirements, we have mainly discussed that proposal in the previous case. When the Right will vote against proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party, it is on the basis that that proposal has been examined in the previous case and has already been consulted. With regard to the requirement of access, there is a question to which the Government will come back under the Foreign Affairs Act. A question of access requirements up to a certain age is a more transparent instrument that needs to be assessed on its own merits. With regard to the 24-year requirement to be allowed to marry, we have been very sceptical about this. The reason for this is that one of the fundamental ideas of the Right is to have respect for the right of all people to decide about their own lives. Preventing someone from getting married across borders, or preventing people who are happy with each other, from living in Norway, is a strong political intervention. The right sees the absolute need to help people who are being coerced from the family. At the same time, we will not and cannot prevent people from falling in love across borders – especially in today's societies, where the world has become much smaller and the vast majority of us travel, work and study in other countries to a much greater extent than before. Should a foreign student who falls in love during the study have to wait until he becomes 24 or 28 before he can get married? Forcing someone to marry is criminal, but arranging marriage doesn't have to be. There's a hairy limit to where the pressure goes to coercion, culture goes over to unculture. Dealing with unwanted but not illegal acts is a problem area as long as one does not believe in excessive interference with the individual’s freedom of choice. Right does not – and does not believe – want everything to be regulated away. At the same time, information, dialogue and attitude work take time. In the meantime, young women and men may experience being regulated by parents who do not respect their children’s rights. That is why we have today supported the majority of the committee. The Council of State has stated that he will investigate and come back with further action in this difficult area. The challenge of policy in our changing and diverse world will be to balance respect and respect for diversity and individual rights on the one hand and to ensure common goals, shared values and mutual loyalty on the other. The right will try to be a guarantor that this balance sheet is not distorted. Forced marriage prevents people from experiencing what most of us do most, namely the joy of experiencing love and sharing life with another human being as a lover. Society must not, in its desire to combat coerciveness, use instruments that are so powerful that they actually have the effect on other people that it prevents them from both experiencing love and living life with a human being they love. That is why the Right is very sceptical about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e314	The work against coercion is very important. There is a great demand among people and an expectation that something must be done to bring this to life. We who sit on the Biggest should be open to consider all the measures that society can take. It is presented by the proposers almost as if this is a phenomenon that has not been dealt with in particular here to the country. It refers to Danish solutions and is claimed that Denmark has been aware of this problem for a long time. Yes, they have, but both in Norway and Sweden, there has also been a lot of awareness of this problem. We see that the different countries have their own approaches to tackling the challenge. In Denmark, a 24-year limit for family reunification with spouses has been adopted. In addition, they have introduced the assignment requirement so that family reunification with spouses is granted only if the couple’s overall relationship with Denmark is greater than with any other country. In Sweden, they have just put in place a new law on foreigners. They have not even considered proposing such measures there. There they work with a completely different approach. The committee which has examined the proposal for a new foreign law here in Norway has unanimously proposed the introduction of an age limit. The government has stated that they will implement new long-term measures against forced marriage, and that this will be followed up by the work on new foreign law. The proposals discussed here today will be subject to an in-depth assessment before the proposal for a new foreign law comes. The proposal on age limits and common access requirements is very controversial, much due to their wide involvement in the private sphere. It is necessary to weigh the importance of privacy against the social assessment of what is perceived as right or wrong. We have to evaluate how many we help with these solutions, up to how many we hit with the same handles. Experience so far in Denmark tells us that there is a great deal of doubt as to whether age limits and attachment requirements actually limit the number of forced marriages. It is reported that young girls dumped in their country of origin are still subject to age requirements. It also appears that a common commitment requirement specifically affects women, who are the most frequently least related to a country. What we see is that such demands may be more like a regulation of immigration than they prevent forcible marriages, and the Danish Government has long admitted it. If you want to implement such measures to limit immigration, you should be honest enough to say that that is exactly what you want. We have also heard of the so-called love refugees, young people under the age of 24 who move from Denmark to Sweden in order to live out their love together. We are aware of our responsibility both for introducing measures that can limit the number of forced marriages and for these measures not to affect innocent people. So what do they do in Sweden? Well, there they work up against fathers and brothers to facilitate their transition to Swedish society. Many of them have problems finding their new role in the family, in a society that may have different values and norms than the society from which they come. These are projects we want to learn more about. In addition, police and courts in Sweden have been asked to be more aware of this problem and to address the cases they are facing. The government here for the jobs of countries — in addition to working with a new foreign law — in finding effective action against marriage law. The party seeking to present it as if the majority in this case were not willing to take the necessary steps to prevent forced marriage. I have to say that I see it as a great paradox that a fundamental liberalist party, which is, of course, the Progress Party, which is very concerned with individual rights and freedom of choice, will introduce general laws that could affect individuals as such a decision was not intended to affect. If you do something like this, you should at least be 100 pst. ensure the effective functioning of the measure as intended. Therefore, discussing all possible solutions and overseeing the consequences of the choices we make is not about infallibility. It's about accountability, a word the Progress Party unfortunately continues to struggle with, to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e335	The proposals we have put forward in this matter are old party policies. These are things we have programmed, these are things we have suggested before. But when we made this proposal again in this context, it was well inspired by the high opinion of the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. It talks and talks about coerciveness, the challenge of Norwegian integration policy. And yes, these are two things hanging in the jump. However, the measures to be taken have not yet been seen. I am told by several that this will be dealt with in the context of the revision of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is well and good, but until it is in place, we lack effective measures against forced marriage. I am honest on behalf of the Progress Party when I say that these are three measures to combat forced marriage, and yes, there are also measures that aim to limit family immigration to Norway. It is precisely because we see that immigration into Norway is not sustainable today. That is what we see on the integration side. These things are connected. It is not possible to work on integration policies in Norway without seeing it in the context of how many people arrive at Norway each year. In Denmark, these measures have actually worked very well. Family immigration to Denmark was well around 14 000 in 2001, and today it is down to something over 4000 years. It is an effective measure in relation to limiting family immigration, but it is also an effective measure to stop forced immigration. One tries to problemize coerciveness versus so-called arranged marriage. However, it should be noted that these are liquid borders. What we believe is crucial is whether it is voluntary or involuntary marriage. It is interesting to note that in this debate it is almost possible to present it as if the only place in the world where you can experience true love is in Norway. Although these measures will, of course, have consequences and limit how many people can move to Norway and live together or find a spouse here, they do not refuse to move people together or live together. There is no restriction in this way at all, only the geographical location in Norway is the restriction. One can, of course, go to the country of origin and live there. So this is not something that stops or prevents love, if love is as great as others have claimed. Here, there are concrete things about limiting immigration to Norway and limiting forced marriage. I hope that these measures will be gradually taken and assessed, and that something from the Government will perhaps be brought out in connection with the new Foreign Law, as it is discussed. But I record that when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in VG on 1 February released these test balloons, they were reasonably quickly and effectively shot down by SV. On the same day, Karin Andersen stated that SV has no policy to limit immigration to Norway. There may be a lot of the government's problem, because, as they honestly say, SV has no policy in this area to limit immigration. Here's the big gap between the government parties, and I understand that it's problematic to come to an agreement in this area. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State to make some clarifications as to whether it is a policy for the Workers' Party to try to limit family immigration to Norway. These are three actions that we have relaunched – the 24-year rule, the access requirement, increased maintenance requirements – that will work and that will be effective in limiting immigration and limiting forced marriages. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e358	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e361	Forced marriage is prohibited and is to be controlled. It is a terrible offense committed against young people who are forced to marry someone they do not want and who actually experience an assault every day as long as they are coercive. That is why this government and the previous government have had a policy that is about us wanting to combat coerciveness, and we are constantly putting in place new measures to combat coerciveness. We strengthen the independence of young girls and boys. We have made an entertainment requirement to ensure that people who marry people from other countries are financially independent and independent when they marry. We publish information on how boys and girls marrying each other, because divorce rates are very high among the descendants of immigrants in Norway who marry through arranged marriages. We demand an interview with the resident when they marry people from other countries, to make sure that this is a marriage that has been made on a voluntary basis. We help those who break out of coercion. We provide support to organisations that help people who are subjected to forced marriages, and we punish those who force their children or in some way contribute to the implementation of forced marriages. All of this we're doing. It is not true that there are no effective measures, as the Progress Party claims all the time. There are many effective measures that are put in place in a variety of ways, because that is how we have to combat forced marriage. So we're, as Arild Stokkan-Grande said instead, against public intervention that limits personal freedom, unless we're sure it works. The party of progress runs around saying that the state cares too much about the individual's life. This area includes a fundamental human right, namely the right to exercise family life. There's something that sticks very deep with us and many other parts here in this room. The party of progress also speaks beautifully about family life, but not about family life where one spouse is a foreigner. I think that's striking. It substantiates the impression we have of the Progress Party, which has one attitude towards people of Western culture, but another attitude towards people of non-Western culture. It is also very clear in their party programme that they want to limit non-Western immigration to 1000 people per year. I noticed that I did not get a response in relation to the 12,000 people who came to Norway last year, which of the marriages you wanted to limit, and which of the marriages you were willing to sacrifice on the altar that the Progress Party has, to limit family immigration. It's very clear that that's the main point. We're busy with two things if we're going to do the intervention in the privacy sphere. One is that if we're going to do that, we're going to be very sure that this works. The second is that if we are sure that it works, we need to balance the action against the negative consequences of the action. We are not sure that the effects of Denmark are positive in relation to limiting forced marriage. So we don't know. There's no good evidence to prove it. On the contrary, human rights studies in Denmark say it does not work. Fine, but then we need to get other and new knowledge on the table to assess whether the action is working. I know that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is working to provide a broader understanding and knowledge of the measures available. It is boundless incomprehensible to me why it should be so that my little sister in a couple and twenty years, who has now found herself an American girlfriend, will not be allowed to live in Norway with her American girlfriend if they marry, but will have to go to the United States instead, just because the Progress Party has this fix idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e382	The Christian People's Party is in agreement with the majority of the Committee that this is an important matter, which must be seen in conjunction with the rest of the Foreign Affairs Act. As we have heard today, the aim is to promote proposals for a new foreign law by the end of this year. The debate is coming, and we are going to take part in the debate. The Christian People's Party is committed to implementing effective measures against forced marriage. The ability to choose who you want to marry is a fundamental right. The Christian People's Party has been busy with this for many years. There have been trends in the debate today as if no one cared about this. It's completely wrong. In spring 2003, the Bondevik II government presented an action plan against coerciveness, which contained 30 measures. In the spring of 2003, on the initiative of the Christian People's Party and the Right, the Storting also adopted a separate ban on the marriage of persons under Section 222 of the Penal Code. Parents who force their children to marry are now at risk of six years of imprisonment. We are fully aware that we need more action than a ban, but to say that a number of important and correct steps have not been taken in relation to this issue will be wrong. It is also wrong to say that there is a lack of effective action. One has good measures and one should consider launching more. With regard to age limits, we will take that debate when it comes to dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act. The ban on family reunification on the basis of marriage before marriage is 24 years old is one thing that we will go into and discuss – we signal scepticism, but will discuss it when it comes. We see that age limits can be measures that can reduce the extent of coercion in Norway, but such a ban causes so many unfortunate consequences that many who want to marry may be affected by love at this age. We have to be careful here. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the debate, which must include both what is mentioned in the Chamber today, and measures such as: those who break out of forced marriage and who do not have their own rights or age to stay in Norway must remain. We have to have a comprehensive policy that takes care of those who are being subjected to the assault of coercion. The Christian People's Party believes that this is an important debate; it has also shown the majority in this Chamber that they mean. When we take the debate, we must have two clear objectives. One must be to protect against the offence of coercion. The second must be to achieve a good and fair immigration and inclusion policy in Norway. Finally, it was said from the Progress Party that one will have effective measures to limit immigration. It was said quite clearly in this room today. I want to add: anyway. Here the Christian People's Party – and the majority in this Chamber – disagree that there should be restrictions in any case. In Norway today, we have a regulated immigration. This means that we have adopted laws and guidelines for who will be staying in this country. The main reason for staying is the need for protection, and we have provided leadership for family reunification for the sake of those who come to our country. We need to focus on them, and with that focus we get to a good and fair immigration and inclusion policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e397	For the sake of the protocol, I would like to refer to everything I said in my previous post, during the examination of case No. 1 today, which is the main reason why I have responded to the committee that I have done. These proposals need to be seen in the context of the work on new foreign law. I nevertheless need to comment on some aspects of the debate so far. There has now been a discussion about whether we should establish new measures to combat immigration, not just immigration, but especially family immigration. It's interesting to analyze that position a little bit in principle. What we're talking about then is that we have people in this country who are either Norwegian citizens or who have received employment and residence permits in Norway. The basis for obtaining a residence permit in Norway is, of course, three main criteria. Either you are a quota refugee, you need protection and you have been given a residence in Norway, or there are strong human reasons for such an authorisation. So it is said from this pulpit that there is an ambition to pursue a policy that will lead to fewer of these getting reunited with family, or establishing a family with people living abroad. I have to say that I think it's an expression of a strange political principle that it's a goal to avoid people reuniting with their families. I hear that the Progress Party insists that it is their policy, but at least it is not the Government's policy. So that's not the starting point for our work on new foreign law. But what's a goal is when people find spouses, for example. abroad, marriage is to be made on a voluntary basis. I agree that there are challenges related to the sliding boundaries between arranged marriages and forced marriages, but on the part of the Norwegian authorities it is about trying to organise a regulation and a law that will help people to make their choices on a voluntary basis. That's our starting point. So we do not have a political objective, for example, as a starting point for the work on new foreign law. to avoid people finding their spouse abroad. It's important for me to be told. No matter whether you represent the Advance Party or any other party in this Chamber, I think that when you look into the future, you have to be quite naive not to see that Norway will have a big challenge in the labour market. Our main challenge will not be to ensure that as few as possible want to come to Norway. In fact, our main challenge will be to make Norway attractive to non-residents, who will have a choice of labour markets to choose from, because the labour market situation will prevail across Europe. We will now have to debate how to present Norway as an attractive country to choose to come, travel, establish and work in. I therefore disagree that the challenges of integration policy should be addressed by limiting immigration. We must be glad that we have an immigration into Norway, but we cannot be pleased with the way we deal with integration policy. That is why we need to improve the integration policy, and we are working very hard on it, starting with the fact that we are already – and that before the demography really starts to hit us – in the situation that we in a number of sectors have a shortage of labour. So also in that perspective, the objective of minimising immigration is, in my view, wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e415	I hear that the Council of State is trying to problem immigration to Norway in relation to the labour market. It's so interesting that you have to keep in mind that we have a very large labour market in the EEA area, where we find most of the labour we need. In addition, we have great opportunities within the quotas for areas outside the EEA that are already in existence and that are not being filled in. It does not seem, therefore, exactly that labour migration beyond the constraints already existing today is necessary. But I have a specific question. When I hear SV talking, I hear almost free borders and freely, but when the Council of State speaks, it is a little more limited when it comes to immigration. Governments have said something like that to the magazine Memo that integration and immigration policy are one of the greatest challenges of our time. Is he serious? Does the Council of State believe that immigration into Norway today is sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e423	To the last one, yes. What is not sustainable is integration policy. So we have to succeed much better in integration policy, and that will make immigration to Norway sustainable. But if we continue to fail in integration policy, we will have problems in that we will then establish a new, lasting, large social subclass, based on ethnicity, so we must succeed much better in integration policy than we have done so far. That is crucial, not just because we want immigration, for example. through family reunification, but because we need to want immigration in order to meet the challenges of working life. It is a complete error analysis to say that as we do not fill the quota of 5000, there is no demand. Well, that's a demand, but people choose not to come to Norway. I think that's a challenge the Progress Party needs to take on board, that is, that we just don't seem attractive enough for some of the professional groups we want to attract.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e432	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e437	I felt the need to draw myself to clear up here in what SV comes with from accusations. Indirectly, it is said about the Progress Party as a liberalist party that our ideology, almost, does not restrict immigration. Yes, you can say that if you have a very narrow perspective on what liberalism really is. One of the greatest and most important fundamental things that lie in liberalism is precisely the preservation of the core values of Norwegian society. It's about democracy, it's about freedom of expression and freedom – all the values on which the Norwegian society is based and in which we are all happy. The challenges we are facing today in integration policy and on the integration side show, when we set out a few decades ahead, the figures on how many arrive in Norway each year, that we can have significant challenges in relation to Norwegian values and values. It is then to limit immigration now, here today, in order to avoid getting into a situation once in the future where the population of Norway does not necessarily have the same acceptance of the values, norms and rules on which Norwegian society is based. It must be one of the foremost tasks in this Chamber, not least for a liberalist party, to ensure that the basic values of Norwegian society are present in the future. Then it's about getting control of immigration and getting it sustainable, so that we are able to integrate the people who actually arrive at the country, so that they understand Norwegian culture, Norwegian values, and that they belong to them. It's job number. 1 for the Progress Party, as a liberalist party, and it should be job no. 1 for all the lots in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e444	I basically took the word just to cancel this impression that was given by the Progress Party, that SV stands for a kind of free flow policy. We definitely don't. We are on the Soria Moria Declaration, and the Soria Moria Declaration is clear. All three parties stand behind the Soria Moria statement. We have three types of immigration to Norway. We support the fact that we are going to have a humane and fair refugee policy. We are for that, and we are internationally obliged to do that. So we are in order to have a need-driven labour immigration to Norway. There we have the EEA Agreement that regulates the EU area. And we have the quota that's not being filled up, which was quite correctly pointed out. We have to look at why it's like this. And then we have the third form of immigration, family immigration, which is the immigration we are discussing here today. I allow myself to point out the inconsistency in the policies of the Progress Party that, while we have the right to family life as fundamental in human rights, it seems that this right is something the Progress Party is willing to put aside. We're critical of that. We have to make sure that people take responsibility for their own choices and get married to the people they want. While the Progress Party believes that they should pursue their family life in a country other than Norway, we believe that here we need to make sure that we have some fundamental considerations at the bottom, and then we need to find good instruments to combat coerciveness. That's the work we're doing, and we're still developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e451	I basically took the floor just to sum up the debate with the following conclusion: the Progress Party, with the proposal on this matter, has been completely disbanded in this debate. The proposal is about introducing effective measures against coercion. The party itself has almost not mentioned forced marriage in its argument but has shown that this is actually about limiting family immigration. This way, the Progress Party is completely undressed. There is reason to note that the Progress Party has a liberal position on, for example: the marriage of love, as long as it is in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e458	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e474	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e483	What we are dealing with now is a Document No. Eight proposals by the three representatives of the Progress Party on the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The proposers ask the Government to investigate and carry out mandatory testing of the Norwegian knowledge and knowledge of Norwegian social conditions, Norwegian history and Western culture of immigrants. After that, you have to have a test to decide whether you get citizenship or not. That is the proposal. In the proposal, the proposers refer to the citizenship test in Denmark, where applicants to pass the test have to answer correctly 28 out of 40 questions about Danish social conditions, geography, population and life as a citizen of Denmark. In addition to such a social test, a language test is also to be carried out in Denmark in order to obtain citizenship. As rapporteur, I must state that the Progress Party has remained alone in its proposal within the Committee. It is important for me to stress that the broad majority of the Committee, which embraces all parties except the Advance Party, is quite clear that demands are to be made in the future in relation to the learning of Norwegian immigrants and their involvement in basic Norwegian social conditions. As the majority of the committee correctly refers to, the Stortinget has already decided, from 1 September 2008, that the conditions for granting citizenship shall be that the applicant has either completed 300 hours of training or that the applicant can demonstrate sufficient knowledge in Norwegian or Sami. The Ministry explains in its reply to the Committee what is considered to be sufficient knowledge. It is therefore not possible for the progress team to get on the chest and say that they are the only ones involved in language and social training. We, the broad majority, make demands, but in addition to making demands, the majority also shows the willingness to give priority to language training and other integration measures. At the same time as the Progress Party shouts loudly for greater commitment to the integration of immigrants, the Party will cut into a number of appropriations for the purpose. In its proposal for a State budget for the current year, the Progress Party cut the funds for integration and various immigration policy measures at over DKK 1 billion, according to a calculation in the Evening Post. Among other things, the party has said no to the new Directorate for Integration and Diversity, which is to coordinate and coordinate and ensure that we have an effective integration policy. They have cut the appropriations for the UDI, and they have cut the appropriations for the settlement of refugees who have come here. It is important that a policy is put in place to ensure that all immigrants can contribute their resources to the Norwegian labour force and society as quickly as possible. That is why I am pleased that there is such broad political consensus in this matter, and that it is widely accepted that giving our new citizens good understanding of language and society is absolutely crucial. I also feel that all parties are in agreement and open up these new and further measures to achieve the objective of better integration. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the letter from the Council of State attached to the setting, where it is well explained the important work that has been and will be started in the field. As has been said, the proposers have remained standing alone on their proposal. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that the majority believe that the requirement to carry out training is fairer and more appropriate than to attach the acquisition of citizenship to a knowledge requirement that allows people to be ‘stretched’ or ‘passed’ in relation to becoming a citizen of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e502	For the Workers' Party, it is an objective that all immigrants should be able to contribute as quickly as possible to their resources in the Norwegian labour force and in society. It will serve both the individual immigrants and society. The Labour Party will stress that a basic understanding and understanding of the Norwegian community is a prerequisite for living in and contributing to our society. We are pleased that there is a right/obligation to participate in three hundred hours of training in Norwegian and social sciences in the Introduction Act. The aim of the training is to enable participants to reach a level of skills in Norwegian that enables them to use or build on their acquired competences in education, work and social life. Nevertheless, the background to those to participate in this training will vary greatly. We will experience tensions from illiterates to immigrants with a career at university level. To believe that these can achieve the same understanding of Norwegian and Norwegian society in a short time is totally unrealistic. Indeed, municipalities are required to provide training tailored to the individual’s competences and prerequisites, precisely because of different starting points. Where will the Progress Party then set the limit for passing any test? On the other hand, it is not so difficult to understand who will lose weight on this proposal, as these are the weakest immigrant groups. Doesn't the Progress Party see that treating everyone equally in this case is unfair? The progress party has a tradition of putting the individual in the center. But now when they're talking about immigrants, then suddenly the rhetoric turns upside down. Why should we now suddenly view everyone as one group, and not see each one? Does an academic background make an immigrant better equipped for a Norwegian citizenship than an immigrant without? The weakest groups may have to spend much more time acquiring Norwegian citizenship. Someone might never pass the test, even if they work well elsewhere in the Norwegian community. Is this good integration policy? Is this fair? Will it benefit the individual immigrants and the Norwegian community? The working party answers no to these questions. We will reject the requirement for a mandatory test and stick to today's system of requirements for the completion of the course. We want to put the individual in focus and help everyone to be able to succeed in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e515	The next speaker is Per Willy Gutt... the president has a slight attack of nostalgia and is thinking of Per-Willy Guttormsen. But it's a long time ago, it's -- the next speaker is Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e518	Norwegian citizenship is not something to be distributed generously. Getting citizenship in Norway is something to look for, something to work for. It should not be too simple, the better it will be the day on which Norwegian citizenship is granted. It is clear, as it is said here, that immigrants come to Norway with different backgrounds, with different conditions for acquiring the knowledge we want to demand in order to have a Norwegian citizenship. But that doesn't mean they're cut off from it. It just means that it's harder for someone than it is for others. And it is precisely here that the fundamental part of the integration policy of the Progress Party emerges, namely that it is through the requirements – and only through the requirements – that one can essentially achieve a proper integration into the Norwegian society. You have to ask some of the people who arrive in Norway to demand that they learn to understand Norwegian society, Norwegian history, our culture, and they have to know our language properly. Then it is not enough just to get an offer for training and go to some course, it also has to be tested. One must test that the knowledge is present. When it's talking here, it sounds like it's the SV school theory you want to follow, you register absences, but you're not willing to test the real competence afterwards. We don't want to. We think it is natural and entirely appropriate to demand that a person be granted citizenship of the Kingdom. One thing is the integration of giving an incentive. One should be aware that there is a significant degree of incentive here for many to put in place these schemes, because it is almost rewarding to adapt to the Norwegian society. It's not supposed to be an automatic way to get Norwegian citizenship, just stay here long enough. But you reward those on the stand, immigrants who work properly and properly and adapt to the Norwegian society and do their part of the agreement in an integration process. Integration is a two-way matter. Yes, we need to have the measures clear, and society needs to facilitate integration. But it doesn't help to facilitate integration as much as we want, unless the immigrant himself does his own part of the job at the same time. Then it's about the demands I've just talked about: understanding Norwegian society, having knowledge of Norwegian society. It's a little sad that you're afraid that you're going to exclude someone, that someone isn't going to get citizenship in Norway so easily and so well, you're going to use that fear to reject the whole proposal. Yes, it will be more difficult for some to become Norwegian citizens if you put such demands at the bottom. Of course it will. But we have to make some demands, and you have to have some demands. Then it's just about working the harder it is, and it's all about getting fully integrated into the Norwegian community. So that kind of argument doesn't hold water. This is the kind of argument that needs to be avoided if we are to move on in Norwegian integration policy. There must be a requirement to be present – for all. Then it also becomes strange when the Council of State problems that there are many illiterates among the immigrant population. Yes, there are illiterates, and it would be almost unfair to introduce these requirements. It is precisely that we have illiterates and people who do not know Norwegian language and Norwegian culture really well, which is the problem. It is then necessary to provide an incentive to do something about it, and then it is necessary to put in place the proposals outlined by the Progress Party. We have to demand something. Yes, we're going to have a good integration policy, but we also need to require some of the individuals to integrate into Norwegian society. With this, I address the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e533	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e536	This case shows a little bit about what is the basic attitude of the Progress Party towards what is going on in citizenship, and how you think integration works. They don't see it as a two-way process at all, but only as a process in which, from the one hand, from the other, from the state, you have to make tough demands, and then, like integration, you have to get on your own with the individual striving for it. There is no doubt, as has been mentioned by the other two speakers from the government parties, that there will be major differences if only one type of requirement is made. You can compare this to adding the list to become a Norwegian citizen of 1.50 meters, saying that one is one meter high, and one is two meters high, both of them going over that list. It goes without saying that this creates a great deal of injustice in relation to what opportunities you have to become a Norwegian citizen. We have said that this is a two-way run – we adopted this last year in connection with the Citizenship Act – where one course goes through having the knowledge, because it is clear that if one can document Norwegian knowledge, one can get citizenship completely regardless of whether one has completed a 300-hour course, while for all other people we demand that an effort has been made. An effort has been made to actually want to acquire the Norwegian language in order to obtain a residence permit and to be able to participate in working and professional life here, and thus also qualify for Norwegian citizenship. I think it's the right way to go, the government thinks it's the right way to go, and the great majority of last year's debate on this agreed. The progress party has a different vision, and they have to keep having it. But I think it's a dimension to what's going on in citizenship, which is strongly underestimated. Many other countries realise – and I believe we in Norway also realise – that citizenship basically gives three rights. You get access to travel documents, you get the security to stay in Norway for the rest of your life, and the third thing you get is the right to vote. You shouldn't underestimate the inclusive significance of this. There is no doubt that we want people living in Norway who intend to live for the rest of their time in Norway to use their voting rights, and it is beneficial that they use them. Take my 18-year-old little brother – it is clear that he did not start to engage very much in politics and for the governance of the country before he would use his voting rights. There is no doubt that the possibility of voting in local elections for people with a minority background who have settled here actually has an impact on the involvement they have in relation to the management of their local environment and community. Then I believe that there is a fundamental reason, and it is fundamentally positive, that people who intend to live in Norway are also given the opportunity to participate with the right to vote and everything else, and it is desirable that they develop citizenship. And it has a clearly inclusive effect, in my opinion. It also has other positive sides. It is clear that the more people it is who get citizenship, the more people it is today – the Progress Party will limit this – and they actually intend to live here, the more security it creates for children born in Norway and growing up here, who will thus also have Norwegian citizenship. If this happens as the Progress Party suggests, that several of those who are illiterate should not have Norwegian citizenship, it creates insecurity for children who grow up in Norway, but may miss a Norwegian citizenship and thus only relate to Norway. It will clearly not have a positive and inclusive effect. Let me end with one, in my opinion, sweet story, just to show that citizenship clearly has an inclusive effect. I think, for example, that getting citizenship means that it may start to cheer on the football team of the country where you live and have citizenship. When Norway won 2–1 over Brazil in the World Cup, I was at Bøler. We went down to town and had the largest Norwegian flag I've ever seen. We went from the T-Bahn station up to Stortinget. Then we ran up Karl Johan and up to the King with the Norwegian flag. We considered going in, but we didn't. We turned and ran down again. It connected people all the time. There were a lot of people who had different minority backgrounds, but who all had it in common that they were jubilantly happy that Norway had turned Brazil down in the World Cup. This is what we achieve by giving more people citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e553	Although the President is enthusiastic about Brazil, the President asks the representatives to take care of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e556	The Christian People's Party wants an inclusive policy towards immigrants. As has been said many times in the debate today, the Christian People's Party also wants as many of our immigrants as possible to have Norwegian citizenship and to be fully included in our country. Language skills, knowledge of society and knowledge of society are important. As others have said earlier in the debate, we have received the law of introduction, which gives us the right and duty to important training. And we must have faith in this training! I am surprised that the Progress Party today says that the course and Norwegian training is not enough. Do we not believe that we are able to provide such good quality in the Norwegian training, the social knowledge education and the course to be organised, that it is enough, but we need something in addition to ensure quality? I believe that all those actors who teach immigrants today, and who will do so in the future as this escalates, are able to provide such a good teaching that the individual immigrants will benefit from it – and not just a good teaching, but an individually adapted education, because we are facing a group where there is great variation, which has very different assumptions for learning Norwegian and for acquiring knowledge of Norwegian society. This is a major educational challenge that I think our society is ready to take – even better than we've done before. We must have faith in this and not say that the course is not enough. It is very good with course, and good with right and duty. That challenge I think we're going to meet, and I think we're going to be proud that we're going to get a good package that makes it easier to be included in Norwegian society. It's not enough with just the first introduction package. We have to follow up all over the line. We need a lot of measures that can help those who need it extra, help them to make room for work. That's where our challenge lies today. We need measures to ensure that all immigrants can get work in Norway. We need their workforce, and we'll need it even more. We need to help them to become active in our professional life. There is the challenge, and not the effort in relation to the course. What I feel is that the Progress Party proposes with its proposal is a kind of admission test to get citizenship, a sort of sorting, because there's someone who's not going to get. It has been said in the debate that then they must work even harder. I have faith that those who are applying for a Norwegian citizenship do so because they want to be included in Norwegian society, and that's what we're going to help them want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e569	It has been a short time since the introduction of the new introduction system. Experience so far suggests that it has produced very positive results in integration work, not least in terms of participation in work or education. What is part of the introduction system is a clear implementation requirement for those who want to apply for Norwegian citizenship. There is also a final test as a motivation at the end of the implementation. The courses are very focused on both language, society and labour market participation, thus meeting many of the challenges facing integration. People who came to Norway a few years ago express envy at those who are now allowed to participate in the introduction programmes, saying that they wanted to be accepted together when they arrived in Norway. It's a positive sign. But it's a pretty big step to go from that kind of introduction system and end up with a knowledge requirement to get Norwegian citizenship that means that if one doesn't pass a test, one is kind of out of that possibility. Firstly, it must be based on a view that those who come to Norway and who have the objective of obtaining Norwegian citizenship do not put down the effort that is necessary, or that one expects, to get an offer to do so. I think that's wrong. I think those who participate in these introduction schemes, with the great diversity of background they have, are doing the best they can to take advantage of that opportunity. To propose to conclude something like this with a test that implies that someone does not achieve given results, which means that one does not get the opportunity to get the significant inclusion that it is to get citizenship, I think it is quite perceptive. I find it strange that the Progress Party in the vote writes that they ‘consent to the Government's policy that as many as possible of the country's immigrants are to be granted Norwegian citizenship’, while writing: ‘These members indicate that a Norwegian citizenship is a desirable privilege which can be used with great success as an incentive in the integration process.’ Here I see that it's actually a contradiction. If one does not have the goal that most of those who intend to live the rest of their lives in Norway, and establish themselves with family and descendants here, have citizenship, it means that one sees that it is an advantage that people who for various reasons do not achieve these results who are given become residents of Norway without citizenship, and become even more marginalized than they are initially. It is, of course, the very opposite of integration that is in reality the consequence of the proposals of the Progress Party, not least to the group that will have the greatest problems at the outset. I would like to believe that such a test as the Progress Party is calling for is a test that many Norwegian citizens might not have completed with their starting point either. This does not mean that these Norwegian citizens are not important contributors to Norwegian society in different areas. On the contrary, one may have major problems in reading and writing in Norway today and at the same time be an important contributor in its area of society. But just because one comes from the outside, one shouldn't be allowed to get the same rights, because a person happens to have problems expressing himself in a test of the knowledge that a person has acquired in whole or in part. That is why I would like to distance myself from this proposal, because in these cases – as in many other areas – the Progress Party is going too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e588	For the Left, it is obvious that nations and societies need the cultural and economic stimulus that immigration is. A diverse society is a good society. Immigration contributes to the development of society in a positive and diverse direction. It requires good integration, and we believe that those who come here want integration and respect Norwegian laws. It is an objective that all immigrants should be able to contribute their resources to the Norwegian labour force and society as quickly as possible. A key prerequisite for this is to have basic knowledge of the Norwegian language and basic knowledge of the Norwegian community. According to the Introduction Act, Chapter 4 provides for the right and/or obligation to participate in 300 hours of training in Norwegian and social sciences, to all persons who are granted a residence or work permit on the basis of permanent residence here in the country after 1 September 2005. The left is well pleased with the changes that the Cooperation Government has been working for in the previous period, and to which a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has joined. What is needed now is time to implement the new legislation and new measures. The individual obligation to participate in training for 300 hours and the condition for documentation of completed Norwegian training for the granting of residence permits under the Foreign Law and Citizenship respectively underline the individual's responsibility for seeking to learn Norwegian language quickly and to get involved in Norwegian social conditions. Training shall be provided by the municipality and shall be adapted to the individual’s competences and requirements. Training shall follow the new curriculum and have good progress and continuity. The basis for the curriculum is that democracy and democratic values are the foundation of all activities in our society. The individual's rights and obligations are balanced against the demands and obligations of society towards the individual. The main division of immigration and integration policies is now as before between the Progress Party and the others here in the Chamber. In this proposal on language and knowledge requirements for the granting of citizenship, the Progress Party has obviously taken inspiration from Denmark. But the Danish language tests must not be confused with language training. The tests intend to make the door into the country even smaller and needier. The overall objective of language training is to enable participants to achieve a level of skills in Norwegian that enables them to use or build on their acquired competences, in education, work and society for the rest. The Norwegian national documentation system consists of centrally prepared skill tests of three levels. Two tests are final and demonstrate an achieved language level. A sample is for en-route use, preferably for participants with slow progression. The aim of the training is to provide as many as possible for final examinations, in order to demonstrate their competence in this way. The performance grant, as an element among several grant schemes, is intended to motivate municipalities to carry out as many final tests as possible. The left considers it sufficient that the person is present and involved in the teaching. The rationale for this implementation requirement, as opposed to a knowledge requirement proposed by the Progress Party, is that participants in the training will have different assumptions and different school backgrounds and that training should be adapted to individual needs. In some cases, participants will be illiterate or have little or no education. The quality and pedagogical content of training will be crucial to whether learning actually takes place. Both the State and the municipalities need to focus on developing the quality of training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e612	I agree with many of the assessments that have come from the majority in this debate. I shall therefore not extend the debate unnecessarily. However, I would like to add that the Government's objective for the training now being provided is that it should be individually adapted and effective, and of high quality. Participants shall be able to achieve basic skills in Norwegian and a level of skills enabling them to use or build on their acquired skills in the professional and social life of Norway. The aim is to include as many as possible final examinations, in order to demonstrate their competence. The introduction of specific tests as a condition could mean that no one would have the opportunity to acquire Norwegian citizenship even with considerable individual efforts in training. It would be unreasonable for them not to be able to mark their relationship with the country through Norwegian citizenship. The system of right and duty of training and the condition for documentation of completed training for applying for citizenship are precisely in place. The system should have worked for some time, so that we see how it works, and what effect it has, before we may consider changes. With a goal of individualised training, which has continuity and high quality, we must assume that the vast majority of those who conduct 300 hours of training in Norwegian and social literacy reach a linguistic level and have a knowledge of the Norwegian community that enables them to participate in professional and social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e628	State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated to Memo earlier this year that immigration and integration policy are one of the greatest challenges of our time. I quote: ‘Is the immigration issue the biggest political challenge of our time?’ – Yes. In 50 years, we will probably have about one million non-Western immigrants in Norway. If they become residents in ghettos and do not have a job or are well integrated, a separate subclass is created. It can evolve into a social bomb.’» This is exactly the challenge. We are facing major challenges in integration policy. After the debate we have had today, it is obvious that there is no willingness to see the link between integration policy on the one hand and immigration policy on the other, which is regrettable. If the Council of State does not really see the potential problems to be faced in the future, should it start by limiting immigration and limiting the distribution of Norwegian citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e640	Although the representative Amundsen repeats his theories countless times in this room, I no longer agree with him for that. I believe that the solution to the major challenge properly outlined in Memo is not to introduce a test related to citizenship. On the contrary, we would then be able to experience that people who work here in the country, who do a very important job – which perhaps many Nordics would not do – who have lived here for years, who have family here, and who have children at school, do not get citizenship because they do not pass the Progress Party test. If the representative of Amundsen believes that it will promote integration and solve the challenges outlined here, he will have to do so. But fortunately, the majority in this room does not believe the same as Amundsen in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e645	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e650	The granting of Norwegian citizenship should not be subject to cohesion policy. By that I believe that there must be some absolutes; in order to achieve successful integration into Norwegian society there must be some absolute demands at the bottom. When we come up with this proposal, it is to be able to provide a positive incentive, so that individual immigrants themselves have something to go after. The individual immigrant himself must have a clear assurance that I am doing well and standing here, and it can be rewarded with citizenship, when the other criteria are met. So it's a positive, not a negative, that you try to represent it all the time. Then there is also a short ending here, especially at SV. SV says that it is very important that individual immigrants have the right to vote, and that citizenship must therefore be given. So they're willing to give the right to vote to an immigrant through citizenship, without setting the requirements for knowledge and understanding of Norwegian society that are so important when using that vote, which is a fundamental, essential part of participating in Norwegian elections. So you're willing to use your voting rights as an inclusive factor without making any demands on how to deal with it. That's what I think with respect to reporting is alarming. We're going to provide training. We've been saying that all along. The public shall provide the training that individual immigrants need. We are going to facilitate this, but the requirement in the two-way issue of Norwegian integration policy is that individual immigrants themselves are on and show that you can meet the requirements that are actually being imposed, and that there is not only a training offer, where you really do not demand anything in retrospect. These things are interrelated, and it is not until the day this room realizes that the requirements that must be at the bottom of the integration policy are a prerequisite for successful integration into this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e661	I just feel the need to inform the Progress Party that neither reading and writing is required nor understanding social issues in order to have voting rights and citizenship in Norway. It's not like that for those who have it, and neither can we sort other people who are going to get Norwegian citizenship. I think this debate has been quite monstrous when I hear what kind of views you have on your fellow human beings, what kind of status they should have in society, when you're going to rank them this way. In fact, there are many old people coming to this country. In fact, many disabled people come to this country. In fact, there are quite a number of injured people coming to this country. They shall have the same opportunity to exercise their civil rights when they live here and have been here for a long time. That they get citizenship is a very good incentive for more people to do it. I think this whole debate and the previous one have been very revealing with regard to the human vision of the Progress Party, and it may be a good thing that it has been said from the Parliamentary Chair, so that we have it answered in white.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e670	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e686	The proposers behind Document No. 8:50, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Kenneth Svendsen, Harald T. Nesvik and Robert Eriksson, highlights a problem in today’s system of popular peace. Paragraphs 12 to 2 of the Law on Population Security require membership of the population during the last three years before the disability period in order to be entitled to disability benefit. This is unfortunate for some who have been working or staying abroad for five years or more and who have become unemployed after returning to Norway before they have started to earn the right to a disability pension. For people who have previously been members of the population, it may seem unreasonable that they lose a right that they have previously paid and contributed to. This shall not apply to persons who have been a member of the population for at least one year immediately prior to the submission of a claim for a pension if (1) he became a member of the pension before the age of 26 and then was a member of the social security fund or (2) he has been a member of the social security fund after the age of 16 with the exception of a maximum of five years. The proposers stress that the proposal should relate only to the group currently affected by the provision of three years' residence before social security rights recur after residence abroad. The proposal that is being promoted is: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on Population Security [[People's Security Act]] State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's opinions on the proposal must be considered positive, since he himself made proposals on how to formulate any legislative amendment. That is why an overall committee is behind the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals in connection with the 2007 draft budget for changes to the requirement of three years’ residence before social security rights reoccur after residence abroad.’ As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Joint Action Committee for its work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e705	This case has its source in a headline in Dagbladet earlier this winter, a notice that I responded to, and which I wanted to follow up. The matter is basically about people who have paid social security contributions over a long life, and thus been a member of the population's security. If, during a long life, the same persons have worked or studied abroad for a total of five years, they are not at risk of being entitled to disability if they are sick or injured before three years have elapsed from their return to Norway the last time. This rule has had fatal consequences for some people, who have actually received no other offer than referral to the social office. This is seen as very unreasonable, not only by those who are hit, but also by the people most. We have many laws, regulations and regulations in our country to ensure good health and well-being for everyone. Unfortunately, we see from time to time that a few fall outside all the rules and rights that exist, and these simply end up on the bar. This case is such an example. I am both happy and grateful that a unanimous committee supports the views of the Progress Party that the legislation in that case should be amended. There should be a difference between one who comes to Norway for the first time, versus one who has previously been a member of the population and has paid social security contributions for many years. The Progress Party believes primarily that changes should be made to the law in such a way that the workers who have paid the premium to the population benefit over many years before leaving Norway are entitled to benefits that are proportionate to the social security charge paid. I am very pleased that the Council of State is favourably opposed to a change in the law on popular security for people who do not comply with the requirement of disability because they have not been a member of the population in the last three years before disability occurs. At the same time, I have recorded that the Council of State also mentions a similar issue in relation to the survivor's pension, where it is required that the deceased be a member of the population in the last three years until death. I hope and ask the Government to address all known issues covered by the three-year rule when the matter is dealt with. There is an overall committee that now asks the Government to come back with proposals for amendment to that law, which promises very well for the further work that is needed to achieve a law that captures the few who have been affected by today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e742	The poor in Norway are a diverse group. The group includes people who are drug addicts and people with mental challenges. There are also people who have difficulty in keeping the structure of the economy and people who have been in a difficult situation because of unfortunate circumstances. However, common to them and to many poor people is that they have a low income and that they have had it for a period of time. In addition to low income, several have a significant debt burden. In the TV programme Document 2 we last Monday met two brave representatives of those who are struggling with great debt: Jon Schou and Tore Lende. Their stories affect, and their cry for help requires listening to. My hope is that today's interpellation debate will help make life easier for those who are struggling with low income and high debt. Norway is a welfare society – and we should be proud of that! However, Norway is also a consumer society where the status and reputation often depend on money and material values. This is a feature of society that is worrying. Not least, it is worrying because it causes social exclusion, feelings of inferiority, illness and, in some cases, a subsequent heavy debt burden. Many cannot say no to the innumerable offers of consumer loans and purchases of credit that are almost thrown at us consumers. It is difficult to accept offers of unsecured loans that allow mobile phones, clothes, vacation tours and furniture, which others have, and which we would like to see. However, in the longer term, the demand for repayment from card companies and credit buy-in payments could make the economy and the life situation even worse. It is an important starting point for those who have undertaken a commitment to settle separately. We must therefore be careful to put in place mechanisms that are conducive to this important principle. But at a time when banks are aggressively marketing their offers of unsecured credit and credit purchases are offered unsolicited, I believe there is good reason to consider whether the risk associated with non-refundability should to some extent be transferred from the debtor to the creditor. We in the Christian People's Party have several proposals for legislative changes and measures that we believe will make the situation poor with major debt problems easier. I want to explain several of these and I am excited to hear the Council's feedback on the individual proposals. The Christian People's Party has been negative to introduce a system of personal bankruptcy to compensate for the debt regime law. The main reason for this is that we are skeptical about whether such a scheme will help those who are least resource-intensive. In England, where there is today a system of going personal bankruptcy, it is largely up to the debtor himself to take the initiative and have the bankruptcy carried out. However, experience from Norway shows that many with major debt problems require a high level of assistance in order to address the economy, and this need is an important one. In the Christian People's Party, however, we will carefully review this issue once again when the Government promotes its assessment and recommendation for the Stortinget. More nearby than introducing a completely new system of personal bankruptcy is making certain changes to the Debt Schemes Act. Several persons who have been forced into a debt arrangement experience difficulties in complying with the conditions. We know, for example. one out of four incurs new liabilities while they are under a debt arrangement. As I have said before, many of those who have a heavy debt burden struggle with different personal challenges, and it may be difficult to meet the structural and discipline requirements of a debt regime. Close follow-up is therefore often necessary during the period of the debt regime. However, no body has such an obligation to follow-up. For this reason, the Christian People's Party believes that a follow-up obligation to people with indebtedness should be laid down by law in the Debt Code. We also believe that the conditions for setting the term of the ‘zero’ debt regime should be softened somewhat. In addition, there is a need to consider reducing the general period of the debt regime from five to three years and tightening the scope for extending the period of the debt regime. We cannot live with a situation in which many people experience the period of debt settlement as a more severe punishment than the punishment imposed on those who have committed serious crime. It is important that the law balances the consideration that individuals should deal with society’s duty to help people who have been in a difficult situation in a good way. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the duty to help those who find it difficult should have a greater impact on the debt regime law, and we hope that the Council of State will evaluate our proposals for changes in this very law. Several banks grant large unsecured loans on the basis of a short telephone call. This is a very good store because the interest rates charged for the loan are extremely high. There is no doubt that those who agree to this kind of credit have a heavy responsibility to assess the possibility of a refund. But I would like to make it clear that credit institutions should bear more risk of non-refundability. I believe that an absolute limitation period for consumer debts of five years could help to reduce the violent increase in consumer debts that we have seen recently. It is also important to introduce a so-called deterrent into the Credit Purchases Act. This will give banks and credit institutions greater incentives to warn against large consumption loans in cases where the ability to repay is limited. However, in the event that the deterrent obligation under the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act are to become effective, credit providers must be able to obtain sufficient information to assess the creditworthiness of the customer. We in the Christian People's Party therefore believe that a new and more comprehensive register should be created, where debt burden and other relevant information are made available to banks and credit institutions in a better and more comprehensive way than today. There are many everyday heroes in the social services, in the legal aid measures and in the pediatricians who provide very valuable daily help to people with financial problems. It's dangerous to highlight someone above others, but I think there's extra reason to give homage to the Juss-Buss juss students who, with great commitment and knowledge, help poor people get their lives straight. I have also been impressed by the human knowledge and warmth that representatives of the law enforcement in Oslo have conveyed to us in advance of this interpellation. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the auxiliaries of people with debt problems are too poor. The municipal economic consultants help a lot, but need more resources. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that this advisory service be extended and integrated into the service function of the new NAV offices. It will help lower the threshold for seeking help and being an important prevention measure. Economic problems can be difficult to talk about in a society where most people have more money and greater values than they strictly need. However, it is very important to provide early advice and advice to people who are in the process of experiencing financial problems. Many today do not have family and networks that play this role. I therefore believe it is also necessary to establish a green number for an economic and debt information service. Many people are getting more and more knowledge on the Internet. The information on debt regimes currently available online is, first of all, difficult to find, and it is fragmented and incomplete. I would therefore challenge the Council of States to set up a user-friendly web portal to inform both about how debt problems can be prevented and how it is possible to deal with the situation when the debt burden has become unmanageably high. An aggregate increase wants to eradicate poverty in Norway. In the Christian People's Party, we are convinced that the fight against poverty must be conducted with a wide range of instruments – not least, it is important to take action against people with a high debt burden. I have now presented several of the Christian People's Party's proposals for action, and I look forward with excitement to hearing how the Council of State assesses these.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e784	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and most of us have a high standard of living and good living conditions. Nevertheless, we know, as the interpellant also pointed out, that there is a minority in our country living in a situation of poverty. Poverty in Norway today is quite different from poverty in an international context. The extent is also small compared to other countries. Traditional poverty is virtually eradicated. However, living in social and material distress in a welfare society with a generally high standard of living will often be perceived as very difficult. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that it will eliminate poverty by, among other things, strengthening the public security network. Poverty in our country today affects individuals with different backgrounds. The reasons we know are different from person to person. Our welfare systems help to prevent larger groups from falling into poverty because of unemployment, sickness, disability or other things. Nevertheless, some fall outside. Therefore, poverty challenges cannot be addressed only through general welfare schemes. In addition, targeted services are needed to adapt to the specific situation and needs of individuals. This applies, inter alia, to: to those who face economic difficulties as a result of an excessive debt. Debt problems among private individuals were seriously put on the agenda at the beginning of the 1990s, when we experienced an increase in unemployment and housing prices that fell, and we saw that many Norwegian households were facing major economic difficulties. Fortunately, since then, a number of relief measures have been established in this area. We have the Debt Regulations Act and the Municipal Debt Advice, both of which were implemented in 1993. In addition to the 1990s and until now, these measures have been continuously expanded and further developed and are currently the pillars of tackling the debt problems of private households. The Debt Regulation, for which the civil servants have exercised responsibility, belongs to my department, while the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is currently responsible for the debt advisory services in the municipalities. Both the Social Services Act and the Debt Regulations Act require municipalities to provide financial advice. The idea is that indebtedness and indebtedness advice should function side by side, so that the debt regime should be reserved for those who have the most serious problems, or those who are “difficult to fulfil their obligations”, as the law states. Indebtedness advice or financial advice in municipalities is designed to address minor financial problems. Economic advice may, for example: provide guidance on how to deal with economic problems in practice. Assistance is also provided to negotiate with creditors. Many who ask for help with such counselling also get help with social problems. We don't have enough statistics on how many people have received financial advice in the municipalities since the scheme started, but there are several thousand per. years of assistance in this way. In the area of the Debt Scheme Act, the figures from the Debt Scheme Register show that more than 27 000 persons had been admitted to debt negotiations under the Law at the end of 2005. We feel that the amount of the case has increased in recent years, and is now approx. 2 700 things per day. years. A thorough revision of the Debt Schemes Act was carried out in 2002. The basis for this work was the experience that had been gained after the law had worked for nearly ten years. The legislative review led to changes that led to a simpler and faster procedure, while clarifying some parts of the law that had created interpretation problems. It was also made significantly easier to achieve a debt regime vis-à-vis public creditors, in particular with respect to tax creditors. The new rules led to more people being helped. This is one of the reasons why there has been a marked increase in the number of cases in recent years. With regard to the Debt Orders Act, which is my responsibility, I believe it works pretty well. In this way, I don't think we need a complete revision of the law right now. But it is clearly important that we go through it and look at opportunities for improvement, and I want to say that the interpellant was very constructive when she pointed to many important things, as the Government fully shares. It was also very useful to hear all the constructive suggestions for improvements made by the representative. But the feedback we have received on the functioning and functioning of the law itself is that both the officials and users of the Debt Order Act are satisfied with the arrangement today. Although, as I said, the law works well, there may be room for improvement. Not everyone knows that we have a law of indebtedness. Many are uncertain about how they should proceed to comply with the law, and what is actually happening under a debt regime. Our department is therefore in the process of developing a guide that will provide consumers with good information about the law and the rights and obligations it entails. The recipient of a debt arrangement must normally wait five years before the debt is extinguished. The idea behind this is that he should pay as much of the debt as he can during this five-year period. This is intended to create a balance sheet and to work fairly – the one who is being cleared of large claims must at least pay back what is possible. At the same time, the law allows for debt to be extinguished within a short period of time or immediately. However, more recent studies from SIFO show that most people who have a debt arrangement today have no means of paying creditors. Current users of the Debt Scheme Institute have largely low incomes and often face health problems and social problems. Just a minority – about 30 pst. – is in paid employment. Questions may be raised as to whether it is necessary for those who are unable to pay anything to their creditors today or for the future to wait five years for the debt to be extinguished. Right now this actually applies to the entire 70 pst. by those who have a debt arrangement. I would therefore like to consider whether the Debt Regulations should be adjusted somewhat at this point, so that it can be easier for some groups of debtors, where special considerations apply, to cancel the debt sooner than after five years. This will be where special consideration is given, e.g.: where the debtor is chronically ill, unfit or elderly. I have also noticed that it may take a long time between applying for help, until a debt regime comes into effect. This is in some cases related to the fact that the law requires the debtor to try on his own to come to an arrangement with the creditors. In many cases this does not succeed, and the matter is drawn out unnecessarily in time. I would therefore like to see if the law can be simplified somewhat at this point, so that people with debt problems can decide the matter more quickly. We also see that more and more Nordics live abroad, and some have major debt problems. Such the Debt Code is today, you need to move back to Norway to get help — at least for a period of time. When we have a review and look at opportunities for improvement, we will also look into whether it should be made available to applications from foreigners. In conclusion, I would like to comment on some of the proposals that the representative had. The proposal for a green number I think has a lot to do. It's a suggestion I want to take with me. When it comes to getting improvements on the Internet, it should just be missing. If it doesn't work well enough, we just have to clean it up. The question of a debt register of our own is probably a matter for us to have a round in the government to make different assessments of such a type of action. Because it is also important that we take care of people's legal certainty, and we should think carefully before creating such a debt register. So it'll be a balance that the entire government college has to do in a proper way. When it comes to cutting down the time perspective from five to three years, that's what we want to look at naturally. But I believe it is important that we stand on the law that we have today, which gives feedback to the good functioning of all – both those who are helpers of the system and users. But the government's starting point is that, of course, in every context, we need to keep looking at whether there are clarifications we need to do, so that it becomes even more adapted to the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e820	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It looks like we have a common understanding of the problem, and I also hope that we will come up with common solutions, so that we can help those who are struggling with big debts. For the Christian People's Party it is important to give everyone an opportunity for a new start. I am pleased with what the Council said about a supervisor who is now being sent out so that everyone can get good information, and I also think it was good to get positive feedback on a free green number where people can call in. I support the Council of State that it is important that we create a public safety net for those who have problems. Then there was also a great deal of emphasis on financial advice in municipalities, and also with opportunities for foreigners. I thought that was very inclusive. I want to go a little further on it with guidance, because it is important to prevent debt problems by getting access to individual advice. The creation of a free guidance phone and easily accessible information through the Internet are instruments that I think are positive. But prevention is the most important thing, although, of course, it is also, as I have been told, essential to have good help for those who have come into an unmanageable economic situation. I use the opportunity, in particular, to highlight an important prevention task carried out by many of the municipal economic consultants, namely the voluntary management of the economy of individuals. Persons who are unable to pay bills in a timely manner and who may not be able to distribute the monthly income so that they stay until the next salary or pension payment can be helped to manage the economy for shorter or longer periods of time. However, because there are no systems for this kind of assistance to people who are unable to keep track of their own economy, the work is often less rational and costly. I would therefore challenge the Government to develop good and nationwide practices for this type of social assistance. In my opinion, it may be appropriate, for example: establishing a national unit for invoicing, so that economic consultants can spend all their time in contact with individuals in need of financial advice. I would also like to highlight the importance of providing basic economic and budgetary education to all high school students. This could prevent economic problems for many and be an important preventive measure. I am happy to see that more representatives from other parties will participate in the debate, and I am happy to get those recordings as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e831	I just want to say that I support many of the assessments for the interpellant. I also want to mention what the interpellant initially mentioned in his post, namely that this is about people who are in a serious crisis. That is why I believe that the interpellant dealt with an individual follow-up is very important. Of course, it is important that we focus on prevention, and that we try to help people not to get into such a situation, but I also think that the interpellant was involved in relation to a close personal follow-up is very important. When we know that many create new liabilities during the period of the debt arrangement, we also have to be concerned that we do not make ourselves an arrangement that only provides temporary help. It is important that we go in with gravity and help these people, who for various reasons have come into a very difficult situation. I want to refer again to the numbers that I referred to in my post. This shows that there are people who have come into a serious situation of life, who have been affected by unemployment, by serious illness, or who, in fact, because of old age are unable to serve the debt. But at the same time, there's also a balance here with the fact that we're not going to make arrangements that can be exploited, that the individual also has a responsibility for his dispositions, and here, of course, there's a balance also with what we're putting up with by the state, by the authorities. I believe that in this field it is not the big political disagreement, but I have to say that I want to listen to the debate and take constructive and good notes with me. We're going to evaluate them in a serious and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e838	We have a law of indebtedness, and after it has gone a few rounds with itself, it has become much better. In my previous life, before I got inside these walls, I worked for a number of years as a public-sector debt advisor. That is, I had my job in the social office. I'm not a witness of truth, but after working with victims of debt for five years, I actually think I have a certain understanding of how the victims are struggling. As one of my duties, I also had it to go home to a part of the victims of the debt, and I can assure the President that I have seen the poverty, poverty and hopelessness of more than one home, home furnished with pulleys for chairs and pallets on board. Very many of the victims have lost their job, lost their job, lost their marriage, and the consequence of this is that you may also have mental problems. Yes, every victim has his own story. But every single victim of debt also deserves respect. They've struggled, they've fought, and finally, as we heard now, 27 000 of them actually have a debt arrangement. And it's not just 27,000, it's probably 27,000 plus the families around that have worn out. I must add that not everyone gets a debt arrangement, and some, in fact many, give up along the way. In my years as a debt counsellor, I actually felt that three adults killed themselves in the process, and four youths with parents who were under the scheme couldn't live anymore. That should worry us. It might have happened anyway, I'm not going to speculate on it, but it's still indicative of how tough it is to be a debt victim. Maybe all the tough parties are for the kids and the kids who grow up in the home where you have to live from five to seven years under a debt regime, where all the extra expenses have to be applied for the reputable, and then you get to hope that the creditors agree to get a little less money one month, whether it's a confirmation or it's a funeral. But always saying no to children and young people who want to do something, we all know that is hard. For someone it didn't last. They have no money in reserve that most of us have. They also have no opportunity to get an extra job, because the creditors should have that money. It is the public debt that most victims of debt have had the greatest difficulty negotiating solutions for. Many of us saw the feature in Document 2 on Monday about what is happening to public debt. It just increases and increases and increases. Many of those who have been discretionary in this country would probably want us to reintroduce debt prisons. Then you'd have finished this debt and could go on with your life. Another thing is that when the majority of the debt is public debt, it is very difficult to get a debt arrangement. In most cases, you don't get it if it's just public debt. Thus, many have to live below the poverty line and are not given the opportunity to start again or to clean up afterwards, because interest rates on, for example. Tax payable is up to 18 pst. This year. This should be looked at by the Council of State. All public claims should be capable of being handled with discretion and not according to rigid rules, as they are today. In fact, private creditors, whether they're banks or other creditors, are much more benevolent than both the landlord and the loan fund towards them, for example. has contributions payable. It's about dignity. Then I would strongly warn against both talking about the debt regime as punishment, and talking about disincentives by taking control of their economy. I want to take a strong distance from it, because it's about dignity. It's about hope, and it's about quality of life. This should be done by the Storting and the Government to provide the victims of the debt in Norway, so that they can start a new life after the end of the system, including those who are in debt to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e857	I'm happy with the interpellation and for it to be focused on this topic. There is no doubt that finding better solutions than what we have today in this area will enable many of those who live in economic poverty and are in a hopeless situation to get out of it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Storting has just dealt with an attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the Debt Schemes Act. There is a unanimous committee on document No. the 8th proposal for 2003-2004, promoted by SV, as inter alia: were concerned with the establishment of a system of personal bankruptcy. The Committee has now unanimously reiterated its call for the Government to submit a proposal on this matter as soon as possible. There's an opportunity to get out of a difficult economic situation, when there's really no other way out. Especially if people are not at work, the debt law, as it is today, is not very applicable. Then it happens that as soon as one comes to work again, one loses the little one had. So it's the way that more people have been about, and Karin Woldseth was the last person who said it, that the public is often the toughest creditors. It's about the chemist, the state loan fund, and it's about the police. I have been involved in issues relating to young people who have had a difficult life situation, but who have entered programmes and worked up, but who have been working up, for example. I have been driving too fast with a car and got a simplified proposal that they are not able to pay, and then they end up in a debt situation. In fact, there is also a debt prison in Norway. If they are unable to pay this deposit, the option is to sit in prison, instead of being able to enter into courteous arrangements and get, for example, a type of social penalty or a possible way of paying it over a longer period of time. I think that would have been a much better solution both because you had got back the money that they possibly owe, and because you had been given a penalty that you were able to handle, and that you had understood. Now it is that such a public reaction pattern often helps to reinforce a situation, where the person may be even more stuck in an antisocial situation, where you distance yourself from society because you don't see any way out of what you've come up with. In addition to this, there is also an overall need to look at the deterrence of creditors under the Credit Purchasing Act. It is also important that those who borrow money should take responsibility for the money they borrow in a much stronger way than today. It is now that a person gets a loan offer clicking on the mobile phone. You can imagine that when you're in a very difficult economic situation, it's easy to seize such a loan that you can get there and then without certainty to get rid of the problems at least in the short term. We know that when people get up in difficult situations, they grab straws that don't carry them anywhere else than even deeper into the problems they have. So it's important, as many have said here, that social services, and it should probably be part of NAV, get good debt advisors for people. It's not easy to deal with professional creditors. We know that. It is not easy to deal with the private and not at all with the state. It is also necessary, as said just a few weeks ago by the Joint Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, to examine how public creditors should contribute constructively to the debt regime, where appropriate. There is too little happening today. You hide behind, as I've got examples of, both in the loan fund and in other people, that you're not allowed to do that. We have to go into that. One of the reasons why such a scheme is necessary with the possibility of going bankrupt in person is, for example: that in the scheme applicable to enterprises, creditors show far greater willingness to enter into chords, to contribute to the solution for them and to bring the debt down in such a way that it can be handled, because you risk losing everything if you do not enter into such a scheme. Therefore, there is a reason to put in place a system of personal bankruptcy. But what you can do before it's done is that the public seas that the creditor behaves far more comprehensible than what's done today. Here Stortinget has recently entered this field and made unanimous recommendations to the Government, which I hope they will continue to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e872	There's a lot of single-handed people who, for different reasons, have become debt slaves. This we see can go very hard on the people it's in, and on the family as well. It may be spouses, it may be children who grow up and suffer from one parent becoming a debt addict. It does something to those who grow up with this, and it does something to the self-image of those who have come into a difficult situation. the extent to which you believe that a person should be able to move forward. Here it is important to configure one. By the time the debt regulation law was signed, the target group was to a large extent people who returned with large debts after the housing was sold. There is today an entirely different group that has a debt arrangement. In spring 2005, the SIFO Report on Debt Schemes in Prosperity Norway came. The study showed that in the group that had a debt regime, there was a strong overrepresentation of people with mental problems, illness, who were drug addicts and unemployed. In view of the developments in this area and the fact that banks and other credit institutions provide highly unsecured credit without examining the ability to pay to the customer, an assessment should be made to ensure that the same person can obtain more than one indebtedness scheme in the course of his life. A great deal needs to be done today before a person becomes indebted to scheme No. 2nd@item: inlistbox However, we know that one in four incurs new liabilities during the period of the debt arrangement. Many debtors struggle to get a voluntary debt arrangement with their creditors. Several of the people who have spoken have been in this particular point, which is very important. Both municipal creditors, added to the principal, lawyers and debtors, report that public creditors are often on the backbone of voluntary indebtedness schemes. There is a need for a clear instruction to various public creditors on how to deal with debt regime requests. This seems to be the Christian People's Party. It is very important that the Council of State intervenes. We also see that more people have been interested in it in their posts. We know very little about how things work with those who have got a debt arrangement. A research project should be launched to provide us with more knowledge of this. Such knowledge could contribute to new measures and to improving the systems. Many of us have met single-handed people who have told their story, and that makes sense, but I think it's very important that you also get a good and thorough research on this. We also need to take preventive action to avoid people having debt problems. Youth is a particularly important group to promote prevention. They are important consumers in today's consumer communities, and many products that can later create economic problems are directed directly at young people. Mobile subscriptions, bank cards and consumption cards, purchases over the internet, etc. has deferred this group more than before. Debts and notes on payments that are drawn at an early age are those that will have major consequences in establishing themselves on their own. For this reason, it is appropriate, inter alia, to: the school addresses issues such as consumer rights and consumption patterns, including: to make young people even better equipped to meet the challenge they face in everyday life. We've got a society with a lot of focus on material values. One advertises that buying things will make you more happy, and that it will be easy to do it. It's a big advertising press against children and young people, and one can easily get access to money to buy things. This makes it a major challenge for children to grow up in today's society, and it requires much greater awareness both of us growing up, in order to help them meet these challenges, and of the school, which can be with and inform about user behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e893	First came the jap era, and then came the debt law. It's kind of the kind of spectacular approach to what we're talking about, that this is about happinessists who have to thank themselves for the way it has gone. I think the debate has illustrated in a very good way that the problem is much more complex than that. It's also true that those of us who sometimes take a slightly higher risk than we should have, might have done it based on assumptions that we didn't have any special opportunity to know about. It has been mentioned that the Debt Code was in a way a married child of the home-crack during the transition between the 1980s and the 1990s. It had consequences that were very difficult to predict. It's also the way we stimulate people to start businesses, to be entrepreneurs, to use their creativity to get started, and we have some of us meet people who feel stimulated in one phase, but completely forgotten in the next. So indebtedness is a very complex group. Some are lucky people who may need a little reprimand, but very many are people who have come into a situation where it's really hard to say that you should understand this, this is your own fault. And that's also the way it's been said here, that there's families connected to any debt sacrifice. I see that the Debt Code says something about how children and children's families should be taken into account in the arrangements they come up with – it should be lacking – but it is also a social stigmatisation linked to this which is very difficult, and which simply confronts us with demands, we who are public authorities and have to function in relation to it. I record that there may be some different perceptions here, but we are going to come back to that – i.e. this with the debt law versus opening up for personal bankruptcy. We'll have the opportunity to get back to that. I think we should first of all look at what opportunities we have to get a law of debt regulation that is so optimal that it works in relation to the ambitions we are going to have. But I've also met people in that poverty discussion, with the challenges they've had, who have just pointed out that this personal bankruptcy was the opportunity they had seen to put things behind them. In the case of bankruptcy, it's probably someone who can speculate in it, but never those who are most unpredictable, and who are in the difficult situation -- the individual human being who's made all his efforts to get to something, and who later feels that it's going wrong. Then I am glad that we are not just talking about the relief, that is, how we are going to get a law that works, but also about prevention. A lot of people have been into it. One thing is the prevention of individuals, but I really hope the Council of State will also take up the challenges that lie here with regard to how we, as the consumer authority, view the way credit is offered today. Those of us who are old enough to remember what the housing situation was like 20 years ago, can get a catch from seeing what's going on today. Now we've come up again in a situation of rising housing rates, but we have low interest rates. So, falling housing rates combined with slightly higher interest rates have to create dramatic situations for very, very many. In addition, we have this marketing of consumer loans that is happening today, which we are a few years old, which seems to be totally shocking compared to what we thought was possible. And you ask, who's really at risk here? It is clear that there are some creditors who assess the risk as low and that it is the debtors who are sitting here with the bill that they can market at almost any premise. Here we should simply look at what kind of legislation we have, what kind of assumptions you have to offer credit to people who don't have special opportunities to see what it is you're beginning to have. It happens that here in the Storting – after six months I record it – we have debates that point primarily to common challenges and where we have common goals about what we are going to achieve. It's nice that it's in a case like this, that just goes about how we're going to create a welfare society that takes care of individuals in a situation where it's really hard to stand alone and be an individual who stays alone with the problems. So I think the debate suggests that the interpellant has received a positive response, and that these should be opportunities for good dialogue, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e910	Here in Norway we are so lucky that we have a society where most people have it very well. However, we must not forget those who, for various reasons, fall outside and become part of the poor of Norway. Poverty is the biggest health problem in society. The impact of economic distress on mental and physical health is one of the greatest social policy challenges we have today. Poverty has many different faces, and this debate has focused on those who have been in debt problems for various reasons. Many of those who have debt problems are entrepreneurs. Our society needs and wants people who take a risk of creating their own or others' jobs. But then there must also be room for mistakes along the way. There is no shame in failing, and as long as you have not done anything illegal along the way, you must have the opportunity to get up again. With today's debt regime, this is difficult for many. We have a debt sacrifice arrangement, but it does not come into force until after five to seven years. In the meantime, many lose homes, families, friends, and greetings. Debt victims have a lower life expectancy, a higher suicide rate and many more physical and mental plagues than the average in Norway. Although many of the victims have jobs, it is not easy to support themselves and any family when the demands for payments are too harsh. I'm not saying we're going to erase the debt that these people have, but the arrangement we have today doesn't work well enough. Many end up either as social clients or as performers, and it costs the state more money than if they could get an opportunity to pay off the debt in a different way from today. Much of the problem here lies with the state. Many of the debt victims I have talked to say that the problem is not with the creditors or the banks – which many people have been involved in – but with the county tax office. The creditors and the banks are willing to enter into agreements with the victims of the debt, but the state follows its principles and chooses to uphold the principles of the system, instead of seeing man. I believe that this has to be a major change of attitude. These are measures that cost little money, but will mean a lot to the people who are going to meet the system. We politicians should take a settlement with today's system and pay greater attention to the dignity of people who come into economic ruin. Even if you owe money, you're still a human being. Providing help and advice to people who are in the process of facing major debt problems, or who have already come so far, I think it is very important. Knowing that there's someone there who knows the system, and that can help, means a lot. Because when you get into a debt situation, you stand on a barbed hill. And what you need most of all is help get on your feet again. Getting into an economic mess is largely self-inflicted. But why shouldn't you be able to help these people, in line with other people who need help? The left will work for people with debt problems to be informed of their rights and the places where they can go to to get help. Advice is a place to start. Although there is today a system of such advice, in many cases it is too poor. Such advice can be both prevention and a place to address those who need help to get out of the debt situation. I mentioned earlier that today's debt regime is not good enough. I have no fasitant response to what a new system will look like, but that something has to be done is quite clear. I am positive with the guidance the Council of State referred to in its statement earlier today, and I think it is good that the Council of State is willing to look at whether today's debt regime can change – as she also said in her statement – so that people who come into economic activity are given a chance to live a worthwhile life again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e944	I first want to praise the interpellant for bringing up a very important theme, a theme that I unfortunately think is going to come up quite many times in this room, and that has been up several times in recent years. Among other things, the Judicial Committee had a Document No. Eight proposals for treatment a little over one year ago, a proposal from SV, which just dealt with debt problems. We have to remember that debt problems arise for a lot of reasons. They may arise because of unemployment, that you suddenly cannot pay your rent, or because of long-term illness. But there may also be completely different reasons, such as that you have taken a little water over your head and simply had payment problems. It's also one side of it. We see that we have had a huge lending growth in recent years because we have a relatively low interest rate. Much of this loan growth is due to loan-funded consumption, credit card loans. We also see that high housing prices make people have to raise high loans to serve their mortgage, which means that many people take up loans far above the pipe. What is perhaps the most important thing in the cases I mention here is that we conduct a sound economic policy that makes interest rate rise no more than it has done up to now, and that we avoid a barrel and driving policy such as that. The Progress Party has recently been in charge, where it's just spending and using the state's money, without any consequences. It will have consequences if we spend too much money in this society, among other things. We get higher interest rates, which have dramatic consequences for the people who have raised very high loans. An important measure to prevent more people from having debt problems is to ensure that people do not take over loans. One of the main reasons for debt problems is to raise over-lending in relation to the ability to pay. Therefore, it is important to ensure that banks and other financial institutions carry out a sound credit assessment. They do that in most cases, but we can still read ads in the Evening Post and in other newspapers where credit card companies and loan institutions market loans without security. You can get a loan of up to NOK 200000 without having to provide any guarantee or security for it. The Council of State said in its statement that she wanted to look at the Debt Regulations Act. The system we have today has become much better in recent years. But she said she would look at the possibility of getting rid of the debt at an earlier time. I think it's very important that we get a review of just that, based on the fact that 70 pst. by those who have a debt arrangement are unable to pay any of their loans. But I would also ask the Council of State to look at a proposal that was promoted by the majority of the Judicial Committee in connection with Document No. 8:66 for 2003-2004, which was a private law proposal from SV, where the majority asked the Government to investigate access to personal bankruptcy, with the cancellation of debts following the pattern of US bankruptcy law. Another side that I think we should also focus on, and which I think as politicians we have to take in and take on some maritime criticism, is the state's fee policy. We know that legal fees have increased sharply in recent years, and that the multiplier on legal fees has also increased significantly. When people have debt problems, many end, among other things. to open the envelopes and leave to pay. As a result, they get the debt collection companies on their backs. They have fees that make the debt bale on, and then the matter ends with the landlord. There are new fees, and after a few rounds with the landlord, it ends up with a small loan becoming many, many times more expensive. This can result in people getting debt problems. Some of this is due to the state-run charging policy, which has increased heavily in recent years. I think it is important that we review the charging policy, so that we do not contribute to making the situation even more difficult for those who have fallen victim to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e964	First, I would like to say to the last speaker that the Progress Party does not stand for any tune and driving policy in its alternative state budget. We spend a little bit more oil money than the government does, but we have a completely different device on the policy, which means that there is no danger to the interest rate level. I would also like to remind the representative that when the Progress Party had a hand on the steering wheel of the economic policy in Norway, Norway’s bank interest rate went down from 7 pst. To 2 pst., while she now, after the red-greens have gone over, is at full speed up again. When it comes to this interpellation, I thought it was a very important theme that's being taken up here. I note that both the Council of State and several of those who have spoken focus more on how to act after a debt situation, to make it easier to clear debts under the Debt Regulations, and that debt advisors must do a better job in relation to the problems that have already arisen. I think it's at least as important to prevent these problems from happening. Here, the public has a special responsibility because very many debt issues arise from you, having public creditors who, as many people have been involved, do not use common sense at all, but are subject to demands, refer to paragraphs and regulations and do not take human interest. One has many special arrangements for public creditors that the private creditors do not have. In many cases they are strangers, so that they can go much faster to interpret. They also have a very own fee. It is due to both the State's loan fund, the annual tax on cars, etc. So there's a fee that private creditors can't charge. There are also others who have been involved in the Document 2 programme, which was a gripping story about two people who had come up in a disaster. Here we have tax authorities that depend on the individual human beings, and they don't have to prove anything when they look like each other. It seemed to me to be an unfortunate system, and it is also contrary to the general principle of law. It's just that, in the legal system, if you're going to put a burden on someone, if you're going to judge someone to pay, you're going to have to prove that it's right. The tax authorities are letting this go. They can look like each other without having to prove anything. I want to refer to both England and the United States, which have completely different rules in this area. There must be evidence in relation to comparison, and I also thought we should consider Norway. Otherwise, of course, the build-up of debt has taken place in recent years. There's something we have to take seriously. The Progress Party has proposed that at least one should consider the creation of a debt register, for today it is so that if someone applies for a loan and does not disclose any other debt that they have, it is not that easy to figure it out, at least not if the debt is signed up after the last self-notification that is public. I found it natural to have a debt register, so that a better overview can be obtained, and that potential borrowers do not question both themselves and the creditors by saying that they have less debt than they have. This is at least something I think the government should consider and come back with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e977	I thank all those who have contributed to a constructive debate. I am particularly pleased that it has not been a party political mark. This commitment and burning desire to make life easier for those who have been in a difficult situation, makes me more optimistic than before. I expect that the Council of State's attendance will lead to changes in the Debt Regulations Act. I noticed that the Council of State is willing to assess, simplify and improve today's system. It's very positive. The Christian People's Party also looks forward to a case of personal bankruptcy. I have said in the past that we need to assess it constructively. We also took part in the unanimous comment of the Control Committee. I think it's important that the Stortinget quickly get a case of personal bankruptcy to assess. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a need for changes in the Debt Scheme Act, so that this law reflects more closely the need of today's indebtedness victims. The risk of unsecured credit must rest somewhat more on the creditor. Therefore, an absolute limitation period should be considered for this type of credit. It is also appropriate to facilitate the provision of adequate foundations for the assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer by banks and credit institutions. Provision of financial advice must be included and strengthened in the work of the new NAV offices. More attention needs to be paid to the prevention of debt traps. Nominees should be given a follow-up obligation during the period of the debt regime. A free advisory telephone should be established. And students should be trained in economics and budgets. At the beginning of today's debate, I mentioned Jon Schou and Tor Lende, who have given a face to those who are struggling with great problems. Both say that the meeting with the public creditors has been very problematic, in addition to the high fees. We have to take this seriously. It may not be that one places more emphasis on getting money into the country than on helping, being flexible and showing humanity with people who are struggling. These people have waited long enough to get a new start and to be able to live a decent life. I hope today's debate can help in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e988	I again want to thank Stortinget and the interpellant for a very constructive debate. I believe that this debate has highlighted important aspects of what this actually involves, and I would like to make a final comment on some of the comments. Many have been involved in the role of the public, and I believe that we must take this seriously. It is also important that we take seriously the individuals who stand up and give a picture of what they experience from the help agencies. We have to take that seriously, and I can promise that we will follow up. The Debt Code applies to both tax and tax debts and it applies to discretionary settlement. So this will come under part of the measures that the debt regime currently provides for. Of course, the Debt Regulations Act also applies fully to the unemployed. Here, Stortinget made some clear improvements in 2003. The representative, Mr Hagesetter, said that the debate may have been a lot about what happens after a crisis. Clearly, the demanding question for all of us is what can we do to prevent and prevent such a situation from occurring. The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad was, among other things, in the school and wanted more knowledge of consumer information in the school. I think it is very important today for many different reasons. But this is also about how much we're going to go into and regulate a market. How tough do we dare to be from Stortinget's side to say no to advertising, in relation to saying no to aggressive market players? Are we as clear when we meet ourselves at the door in part of those debates? This is complicated, because today we are also acting within a market that has become incredibly liberal. I feel that when you talk about consumer policy, and there's a lot of what this is actually about, it's not always as easy to do what's necessary, because this is also about very powerful actors in our society. I just want to say it. In terms of personal bankruptcy, I would say that the government is working on that point. I know that SV has had a strong commitment to this for a long time. That's what we're going to take with us. And all the concrete input that emerged in the debate, I can promise that we will take a close look at it. This is a matter we work on continuously, and I hope that people will notice that we are getting improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1001	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1019	Many children for whom the Child Welfare Service takes care have lived in a stressful care situation over time. Several have developed vulnerability and need special attention and effort. A new NIBR study shows that child-restraint children are more likely to commit suicide or die of accidents and illness than other children. Deaths and mortality are an important health indicator. The talk from NIBR researcher Lars B. Kristoffersen has done shows that there are dramatic differences in mortality between child protection children and other children. When taking care of the child, the child protection service shall adopt a plan in relation to the child’s care situation. The care plan shall contribute to the coherence of further efforts and decisions and provide the basis for a more systematic follow-up work. Children who need child protection measures for a short or longer period should be provided with the help device for conversation in order to put words on their experiences and experiences. This call provision should be provided for as long as the child is in the action, with the possibility of being able to easily contact the auxiliaries if necessary. Parents should also have similar opportunities for conversation. In 1998, the Child Protection Act was amended to require child protection to assess whether there is a need for post-criminal protection after the age of 18. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that more and more young people between the ages of 18 and 23 are being protected. Many foster parents and juvenile institutions are aware of how tough it is to have no room to come back to when the ‘adult process’ is sometimes tough. The second paragraph of Section 1 to 3 of the Children's Protection Act provides for the possibility of maintaining measures beyond the age limit of 18 years, or replacing them with other measures listed in the Act, until the youth reaches the age of 23. In principle, any type of action by law will be able to be maintained. This may, for example: relate to foetal home or institution placement, or to relief measures pursuant to § 4-4 of the Act. But for placement in child protection institutions, there are rules of their own. Such placement cannot initially be maintained beyond the age of 20, cf. Paragraphs 9–4. It is important that the childcare service, in good time before it reaches the age of 18, informs young people about the possibility of maintaining interventions after it reaches the age of 18, and that a person clarifys with the young person what he or she wants. The childcare service must make a health assessment of the situation of young people on a case-by-case basis and decide whether action should be maintained. If the needs of young people cannot be met equally well by measures or services under other legislation, such as: Under social services law, this may mean that measures under child protection law should be maintained or replaced by another measure under the law. The aim of providing measures is to enable young people to manage themselves. The Child Welfare Service must be encouraged to demonstrate flexibility and creativity in the creation of measures that address the specific needs of individual young people in order to provide assistance to their adult life. An indication of the children’s particular needs helps to underpin the responsibility of the child protection service to meet the needs over time. If the plan is for the child to grow up under the care of the child protection service, it is particularly important that the care plan makes it clear that the child will need special support in the event of important transitions, including: the transition to its own building situation. Most young people have a long period of delinquency in relation to childhood homes and families. They gradually gain greater freedom and then finally stand more or less on their own legs. This is not the case for young people moving from foster home or institution at the age of 18. Psychologist and researcher Elisabeth Bache-Hansen has pointed out that it is a risk factor in itself for children's protection not to have a family for life. These young people are faced with much greater demands that they do their own thing. Other young people who move from home have a long phase in which they still come home. Young people in child protection also need a long time, and their main project is to get something that can stand by. Jan Storø, child - protection educator and well - known spokesperson for child - protection children, has conducted a main subject study on the transition of child - protection youth to a self - centered existence. He has given the study the title «To walk over burning bridges» – an expression one of his informants used about the great transition. Norsk Fosterhämsforening is also among those who have indicated that enforcement practices are too poor in many municipalities. Several of the foster children are not allowed to succeed, even if they want to, and foster parents are not given sufficient follow-up. Lack of after-care may lead to the child’s work until it reaches the age of 18 being destroyed. Young people who want to free themselves from feelings of lack of freedom until they reach the age of 18, often say no to post-protection, and when they undo, it may be too late. That's when child-restraint burns, and they're being pushed over like social clients. We have to avoid this, and I hope that the Council of State will address this issue. Fortunately, many child-restraint youth are doing well after they leave child-restraint. In Storø's investigation, two thirds of the young people were quite successful, while the rest were poor. He learned that when the young people had reached the age of 22, they were more open to talk about their situation and to reflect on what they needed and what they wanted. These findings indicate that a follow-up period of up to 23 years can be a good tool to help and support young people up to the age required. It is therefore unthinkable that the public burn the bridges between the young and the child protection. It should not be irrevocable and irreversible. Both foster parents and environmental workers should be a anchor for sustainable support. Some children's protection states that they are waiting to close the book to deal with the matter in case the young person is going to change his mind, but this is very variable and is based on the understanding of the individual municipality. So for those who close the case in Child Protection, there's a part that can't bring things up again. There are also young people who want post-protection, while a municipality thinks he or she doesn't need it. Sociologist Elisabeth Fransson is doing a doctoral thesis on post-mortem protection. In her work, it was found that most of the girls wanted to move out, while the boys would like to be. One of the girls said that ‘it’s like when you go on vacation to a foreign country and you have to learn everything there. You only have yourself to trust." In Fransson's investigation, one-third of the young people moved into their own homes, and three-quarters of them thought it developed negatively. Half reported drug and alcohol problems, and many reported mental problems, practical problems and problems associated with the institutionalisation they had experienced. Many also had a problematic relationship with their family. Fransson found out that approx. 50 pst. after her removal, her informants received post-clearance protection. The most problematic thing is that ‘problem youth judges’ did not receive aftercare. Non-compliances with the rules will result in a loss of post-protection. This applies to young people with, for example: substance problems. Several of them were rejected by the rearguard. This is serious, and it must be dealt with. Youths who have taken care of their children often have a less and more vulnerable family network than most youths. For this reason, the need to have fixed plans and to have them carefully in relation to this group is particularly important. The Child Protection Service shall, in good time before the youth reaches the age of 18, draw up a plan of measures in cooperation with the competent authorities, as set out in the Annex. the fourth paragraph of Article 4 to 15 of the Law on the Protection of Children. If young people live in foster homes and e.g. shall move on to the hybel or public high school, foster parents may be important support players in the follow-up of the youth. It is therefore important to allow foster parents to participate in the planning work. The same may apply to others in whom the youth has particular confidence, for example: to the institution in which the young person has bid. It is not unusual for young people not to want to take action from the Child Welfare Service after the age of 18 years, but to change their mind after a period of time. The action plan should therefore be designed in such a way that the child-resistance service can again provide for action under the Child Protection Act, even if contact with the youth has formally ended for a period of time. Research shows that many child-restraint young people face different problems when they are between 18 and 23 years of age, and there appears to be a need for new interventions. The statutory right to follow-up until 23 years is a possible grip. Another step is to pay foster parents for a certain period after moving out, because many foster parents want to keep in touch, and they would like to be of help. What will the Council of State do to ensure the protection of those who wish to do so, and to provide a right-wing option for young people who break child protection on their 18th birthday?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1072	First, thank you to the interpellant for raising an important question. First of all, I would like to stress that there should be no doubt that the Government recognises the importance of well-functioning post-protection. The reason for this is also that post-protection is specifically mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. Regardless of this, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has had a special focus on post- protection work in recent years. In this connection, we have, among other things: given full guidelines on the practice of the after-sales protection system. These have been very well received in the municipalities as well as in foster homes, as they have been informed. Those guidelines state that, in good time before the age of 18, the Child Protection Service shall inform him of the possibility of maintaining measures under the Child Protection Act after the age of 18. At the same time, the child protection service shall clarify with the young person what he or she wants. The guidelines point out that the inclusion of the various relief measures in the Children’s Protection Act is not exhaustive. Therefore, the Child Protection Service is encouraged to demonstrate flexibility and creativity in the establishment of measures that address the specific needs of each young person for assistance to adult life. As the representative Molvær Grimstad also points out, it is a fact that many young people who have been under the care of child protection have a smaller and more vulnerable family network than the most young people have. The need for planning and predictability of this group is therefore particularly important. Therefore, in good time before the age of 18 and in cooperation with young people, the Child Protection Service shall draw up an action plan for each individual. For example, the action plan may include the continued residence of young people in the foster home if formal care ceases or it may be that the youth should have the foster home as a base, a place to come home for a transitional period. In any case, foster parents could be important support players in the follow-up of youth. The guidelines on post-protection work therefore encourage foster parents to participate in the preparation of the action plan. The same applies to others that young people have particular confidence in, for example: staff of the institution in which the youth has lived. It is true that young people who have been under care do not want to receive measures from child protection services after 18 years of age, but that they change their mind after a period of time. It is therefore also explicitly stated in the Guidelines that the action plan should be designed so that the Child Protection Service can again offer measures under the Child Protection Act if the contact with the youth has been formally concluded for a period of time. If the Child Protection Service rejects the youth’s desire to maintain the measure or replace it with another measure under the Child Protection Act, the Child Protection Service shall inform the youth that the refusal may be appealed to the county. Nevertheless, questions can be asked about whether the right to appeal is well known to all concerned. Municipalities are obliged to draw attention to the right of appeal if an application for action is rejected, but it is uncertain whether this is always done. The Ministry will therefore take the initiative to inform municipalities of the obligation to provide information on the right of appeal. If measures under the Child Protection Act are not maintained, the Child Protection Service shall, in consultation with the youth and in good time before the termination of measures under the Child Protection Act, examine the need for other measures or services. If such measures are needed, social services will have a specific responsibility under the Social Services Act. In these cases, the Child Welfare Service must inform the social service of the needs of young people and, where appropriate, assist the social service in finding the relevant measures. In this respect, I would like to mention that it seems to be a widespread misunderstanding that young people in need of assistance under the Social Services Act cannot be offered relief measures that are traditionally perceived as a child protection measure. It is, of course, fully possible for social services to offer similar measures. Neither the Social Services Act nor the Child Protection Act precludes cooperation between the agencies as long as the applicant consents. In the guidelines on post-closure work, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Child Protection Service therefore calls for greater cooperation on the organisation of actions for young people in need of public assistance. During the spring of 2006 and up to the early autumn, the Ministry will receive reports from two committees entrusted with the specific assistance of child protection measures. One mission focuses on bringing together research and documentation on aid measures available both at national and international level, including actions after the age of 18. The aim is precisely to develop new good measures and methods that can be used in the field of child protection. The second mission is a study on the use of relief measures by municipalities. The aim is to increase awareness of the aid measures taken by municipalities, the threshold of the municipalities for implementing relief measures, and the basis for the choice of relief measures. Through these reports, we want to gain a better understanding of where there may be a current failure in terms of post-closure protection and more documented knowledge of what should be put in place by targeted action. The Ministry will assess and specify further follow-up work when the reports are available. Among other things, an example collection of good post-protection measures is envisaged, which can be distributed to municipalities. In 2006, the Ministry also funded a film project on post-protection, under the auspices of the National Association for Children’s Protection and the Adults for Children’s Organization. The film shall focus on the experiences of young people and is intended to be a tool for dialogue between them, foster parents and child protection services. The final product will be a DVD to be sent to all municipalities in the country. There have been major changes in society in recent decades. It is held, among other things: greater requirements than in the past for education and qualification in order to establish itself on the labour market and in the housing market. Most of those aged 18 in Norway today attend high school. They still live at home or receive other support from their parents for a few more years. I believe it is important that this is also reflected in the measures taken by child protection in the case of young people over 18 years of age. We know that the transition from child to adult is a vulnerable phase for all young people, and that children in child protection are a particularly vulnerable group in this way. I would therefore like to follow up this work further, in order to help make this transition the most positive experience for the young people for whom child protection is the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1111	I want to thank the Council of State for the response to the interpellation. I look forward to the two reports on child-restraint relief that the Council of State told me about. Then we get even more knowledge and information. What is very important, and what the Council of State was about, is that the action plan to be developed for young people, not only should, but in a way must be designed to bring about a return to protection. There are different practices and different interpretations of these in different municipalities. Maybe one has to be even more accurate, so that everyone can take it up again, so that everyone can make it right. It should not be a mere "should" handle. I wonder what the council thinks about this with foster parents, because it's clear that it's a challenge. When a child is 18 years old, it's legitimate. Everyone who has children knows that once one has a child, one has a whole life. The contact is between parents and children: if the children are 20 or 30 or 40 years of age, they are in a way still their parents. Many foster parents may have had the foster child from the age of two to the age of 18. Once the unborn child has become an author, foster parents have no right to receive information about the unborn child, even if it is in a way their children. We know that most parents feel that the 18-19-20-year-old comes out on the inclined plane, so they drag out and look for him or her, while foster parents have no possibility of demanding information, even if they are equally happy with these children as their parents are with their biological children. These are difficult problems, because many foster parents still want to be able to help. At the same time, one of these dilemmas has movie wonders. If the child says that I am now free – many people may become rebellious at the time when they are going to separate themselves from the adults – it may still be good to have some adults who care and who may be in contact. When they get older, they find out that it is good to have foster parents who care about them, even after they have grown up. There are many foster parents who want it, but they feel that they are cut off from it. When it comes to economic welfare: although young people move on and study, there may be a need for a gradual compensation scheme for foster parents, so that they can stay at home and receive these young people when they want to go home for Christmas and Easter. I know that many foster parents who have had many foster children may have many foster children home, who will be with that family. Then you might want to look at that page as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1128	I want to say that the government will do its utmost. We want to turn each rock to help the children who have come into a difficult situation. I want to repeat what I said in my post, that 18 year limit many times maybe is a little bit artificial, when we know what reality is. That's why it's also important that the public system in our country, which perhaps gives some of the best rights in the world, where we have clear laws that give us rights almost in every situation, manage this wisely, and that we also exercise a great deal of flexibility many times. Because what we're experiencing, and I feel that the interpellant was inside, is that there might be different practices in different municipalities. That's why I think it's very important, almost whatever field we're talking about, that we focus a lot more on how we can reach out to the population about what rights it actually has. I also want to say that after all these years that I have been in Norwegian politics, many of the stories that individuals have given about meeting with the public have made a big impression on me. We have to take that seriously. That's why it's also important that we give those who work on these issues competence, so that they are qualified to address these difficult situations and provide the necessary help and support. Interpellant was also concerned with problems related to foster homes. I want to say that everything related to foster homes is now going through the government. We know that there are major challenges. We need more foster homes. We know that there are many who are struggling in relation to the conditions. The interpellant was involved in another important issue, linked to the after-sales protection. I just want to say that this is a problem we're working on now, and we're going to get back to it more concretely. As I said, we are waiting for two specific reports. When they are available, I feel that I want a much better decision-making basis than what I have now. We will then come back and see what kind of measures and instruments we can put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1141	Children and young people who are or have been under the care of child protection are in many cases people who carry with them a heavy should in life. It is therefore very important to keep an eye on the laws and regulations applicable to this group and on the handling of the same legislation. Today, under the care of child protection, young people can, if they want to do so, adapt support and assistance from the age of 18 to the age of 23, according to the changes introduced by the Children’s Protection Act in 1998. Some of the young people want this, while others will survive by the age of authority. So it's like the interpellant and also the state council have pointed out, that some young people who initially want to do without the help of child protection, perhaps after some time have to realize that it's not that easy to fly 'for their own wings' when you have a little too heavy should be in the luggage. It is therefore not uncommon for some young people in this group to change their mind after they have first refused post- protection measures at the age of 18. Then it is important to point out that it is fully possible for a youth who sees life becoming more difficult than he or she thought, to ask for help from child protection, as the Council of State also underlined. In the circular sent out on post-protection measures for this group, it is clear that the Child Protection Service shall seek to provide offers to a young person aged 18 to 23 who so requests, if it has not had contact with child protection for a period of time. If child protection is not found to comply with the wishes of the young person, the young person shall be informed of the available appeals. You don't have any clear statistics, as I understand it, on how many young people change their mind about follow-up from child protection. However, after looking at the situation in my own region, I have a clear understanding of the fact that child protection is aware of the vulnerable situation of this youth group, and that as far as possible good and adapted measures are being sought for the young person who, after a while, had to return to child protection with the need for help, seas, if it can vary greatly between municipalities and regions. It is also important to stress that it is fully possible for child protection to cooperate with, for example: social services to find the best solutions for this group of young people. These are adults, competent people who have very individual problems to deal with, and who will therefore need tailor-made solutions, whether they wish to live by sea or to be associated with any previous foster family, which, for many young people, is their real family. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State underlined the great flexibility it has provided for the post-protection of this group, and that it must also facilitate cross-departments cooperation in order to find the best assistance, as long as the youth agrees that this can happen. I am also pleased that the Department now has two committees to report on the various assistance measures available in the field of child protection. Here you will, among other things: gain insight and knowledge about the actions undertaken for this youth group in question, so that efforts can be made to improve both responses and methodology. Children and young people under the care of child protection are a vulnerable group, despite the fact that there are large individual differences. We know that many of those who have had a difficult childhood and youth are found in criminal statistics or as socially disadvantaged later in life. Finding good targeted measures for children and young people who experience parental or other adult care failure is therefore one of the most important tasks of this government when the fight against poverty is defined as job no. 1st@item: inlistbox I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State here has confirmed that the Government takes this task very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1161	It's a very important topic that the representative Molvær Grimstad addresses in his interpellation. When I’ve been out on ‘stands’, I’ve met many young people who have been under public care, who have just pointed out this issue and the great variations that exist between municipalities. That it can be difficult, says itself. Young people may no longer feel related to their biological family, while institutions are constantly changing employees and foster homes are having new foster children. Youth can then quickly feel over and unwanted, and that was hardly the intention of taking care of it. I would like to point out that most children with child protection also have a biological family – it has not been very much mentioned so far – and that although mother or father are unable to take care of youth, there is another biological family with which it may be important to keep in touch throughout the period in which the child is under public care. Very many foster children and institutional children are cut off from having contact with their biological family, because it's kind of hanging from old child protection, even though the Stortinge has said something quite different in its revision of the Children's Protection Act. They think this is not good for the child. But if there's something that's not good for anyone, it's feeling superfluous and unwanted. The Children’s Protection Act, as many have pointed out, states that for all young people before they reach the age of 18, consideration should be given to whether they need further placement or whether they need other relief measures. All too often, it is a sin against this. Children's protection is referred to the social office, to a completely different regime than they are used to in child protection. It is not surprising that the child can feel both lonely and helpless. In cases where the youth is placed in a shelter and is not followed up properly, bad habits and falls are quickly incorporated outside. Unfortunately, it turns out that not all young people who have been under public care are doing well. Many of them are either struggling with mental problems, with intoxication, or with both. I am not saying that this is because of child protection, as a rule this is a risk child, nor is it because of the care they have received in child protection. But that should worry us, and we should look at measures to prevent this. It is also stated in the law that those who wish to do so will be able to draw up an action plan on child protection. The problem is that very many child protection agencies — and we know this through the National Audit Office — do not even have action plans for the children while they are under public care. It is not entirely convincing that they will then be able to cough up a plan of measures after the children have left child protection. But I am very pleased that the Council of State has now asked for reports on various measures and plans for children's protection, both from municipalities and internationally. We in the Progress Party therefore have two proposals for solutions that we would like to contribute. The first is that we want to ensure that under public care, young people stay in contact with the biological family. The reason is, of course, that it gives young people a sense of belonging and importance even after they are out of public care. The second is that we want to set up free and independent child protection services, which ensure that all young people receive the offer and the assistance they require under the law, and point out to those municipalities that do not offer such an offer to young people that they actually violate the law. Let's start with this. I'm sure this will be a good start. Even though it is a little worn out, I finally want to read one verse of Arnulf Överland's poem 'You must not sleep', for I thought it fit so intimately here: «You must not sit safely in your home and say, 'It is sad, poor them!You must not tolerate so intensely the field wrong that does not strike you!' I cry with the last breath of my voice: 'You are not allowed to go there and forget!'
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1204	Today we have another important interpellation, which SV is happy to be taken up. I don't think it's like some politicians are forgetting this topic. But it's hard. It's hard because the starting point here is children who have experienced very heavy care failure, perhaps violence. In addition, there is a loss situation, for which it is difficult to compensate. That's why I'm glad the interpellation is coming up. It might well remind us all of many of the reports we get from child protection that the state of child protection is not everywhere the way we want it. An important starting point that we have to bring with us all the way is that there's a lot left. But I don't think it's on – to say it like that – a lack of will or insight, when it hasn't solved itself. It might be economic in some cases, but there's someone who forgets this, I don't think so. What has been in focus here has been the difficult transition to adult life, which can be difficult enough in ordinary families with normal children. And it's clear that that transition can be experienced as being put on a bar hill – perhaps one also wants a sail for a while – and that the way back to child protection, if you need help from there, is not open and clear. Then I would like to stress what others have said before me, what is stated in the law and regulation that child protection in good time before the age of 18, should inform about and address this with access to child protection. I also want to say that I think there must be an overall assessment of whether action should be taken under social services or under child protection, because it is not obvious that it is important to be under social services then. It might as well be that you have to stay under the Child Welfare Service any longer. As it is today, there is no obstacle in the law that you can continue after 18 years if you have interrupted contact with child protection. But I feel somewhat uncertain about whether the signals that this is the case are clear enough outside, and then not only about the children involved, but also about the administration. We've got examples that the child protection measures haven't been good enough, and then those who work on this out there say they have financial constraints. However, the law clearly states that services should be provided here regardless of whether restrictions have been imposed on, for example: municipal budgets. It will then be important if the Council of State can say something about whether it also applies to these children who have passed the 18th birthday and, if necessary, be able to remain under child protection for a longer period of time. It is clear that there is economic pressure on many of these services, and it is important to have the same attitude towards child protection services after the 18th anniversary as they were before that day. It is not because these are children, but because there are young adults who are in a vulnerable period, who may need this contact more than anyone else. I want to put a special searchlight on a group that no one has mentioned today. These are unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. It's perhaps the group that's all, most alone in the world, and that almost has no network around it, other than any person who might be out to trick them into bad ways. Such people know we exist, and they have quite good antennas in terms of finding children and young people who are in a vulnerable and lonely phase and position in their lives. Therefore, it is so incredibly important to try to be clear about offering this follow-up after the 18th anniversary to all, and to pay attention to the lone minor asylum seekers. I also want to say that when it comes to this matter with foster parents and their right to and need to know, it is such that normal parents also have very limited access to such information after the child reaches the age of 18. That's the way it is. Finally, I would encourage everyone to read VG's article from April 29th this year that addresses the problems of child protection repeaters, and that tells of a reality that is such that most of us almost cannot think about it. But it's actually still like this. We therefore have a long way to go and a great deal of work ahead of us before the situation is safe for children who have difficulties at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1225	The inter-pellant should be praised for looking at a theme that is important on the agenda. We know that for many young people it's not that the faith for follow-up falls away that day one becomes 18 years old. The period from one is valid until the beginning of the 20s is a challenging time for many young people, and perhaps especially for those who have or have had contact with child protection. The poster protection may be decisive for the life of this group after the time during the child protection service. From the Centre Party's side, we are pleased that several young people aged 18-23 now receive an offer of follow-up. However, it is a long-term goal to reach everyone in this group who is in need of it and who has a desire for follow-up. That's why we share the intention that the interpellant has. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State stresses that the Government is busy finding alternative ways to provide information on the supply to young people. That is very important. It is of particular importance that the apparatus around these young people have knowledge of what they can benefit from after 18 years of age and that it is passed on to young people. It is also important that municipalities have both the competence and the economy to take their share of responsibility in this policy area. We know that a good local economy is not just part of ensuring everyone's follow-up. He's also involved in ensuring the quality of the service. Therefore, it was important that the government also implemented in the municipal economy in relation to this point. The Council of State has also said that this is a matter that is at the heart of her work and the work of the Government. It is also mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. It has been said very well in this debate, and I see no reason to repeat it all. I only want to put myself behind and support the intention to strengthen the protection that has been expressed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1238	It was very gratifying that the Council of State, on 2 May I believe it was, went out in the evening post and invited to a wide debate on child protection. But there was one theme I missed a little bit, which didn't come out that much. It was just post-protection. Therefore, I would like to support those who have thanked the interpellant for raising this important debate, and hope that the Council of State will take this and put it on the 'two do' list of those actions and they will look at what is related to child protection. Today, there are increasing numbers of children under child protection. But what happens when child protection takes care of a child? The answer is that the public is involved in the role that parents have had, with the obligations it entails. The difference between the public and the common parents is that at the age of 18, public care disappears. I have to admit that when I was going to introduce myself to this debate and look for information, I was a little surprised at one thing: there are very little facts and knowledge about this topic. It surprises me that in the time we live in, and with all the information we have, e.g. about the dust quality on Mars, not knowing more than we do about how children's protection are doing, and what happens when the public has disclaimed responsibility. An approximation, but one is not sure. The interpellant showed that two thirds of children's children are doing pretty well, while one third are not. If that's true, it's a situation that's not good enough, and we have to do something about it. I'm happy with the promises about the knowledge you're waiting for in the form of these two reports. As a child protection child, you grow up in an institution or a foster home. Institutional life is often influenced by different people on shifts. Foster homes can be very different. Some foster children are considered by the foster family to be biological children, while other foster families are depriving themselves of the obligations on the day the child reaches the age of 18 or on the day the family has agreed with the municipality or the public. Children’s protection often lack a stable primary family, and due to a lot of movement, many may have problems connecting to close and good friends. What does a primary family really use? For the vast majority of people, the family is something that lasts a lifetime, no matter what. It's the family that cares. There may be small and big problems – it may be difficult exams, one has had a tough first day at work, one has problems looking for summer jobs, meeting the first girlfriend, poor exam results or a need help buying a living. Whether a missing primary family, is missing a someone who cares. Some of the most important things being said in this debate must be that the need for support – as the previous representative said – does not disappear even if one passes 18 years. While the new 1993 Children’s Protection Act did not mention post-care, young people who have been under child protection measures in Norway can today be re-protected until they reach the age of 23. But it's not obvious, as many have said before, that they get this. It depends on how the municipality assesses them correctly. The law states that one has an obligation to assess the need for after-care, not that one has an obligation to offer it. This obligation to assess makes it very different practices from local authorities. While post-protection in some municipalities is seen as the same thing as successfully completing an engagement, the holding is completely different in other municipalities. Left wants to legitimize the right to protection to give these children what they need most of everything, care. It can't be that one – until one is 18 years old – is afraid to get the letter that says you're 18 years old, so now we're disallowing responsibility. The left believes that the state must take full responsibility, and that one does so by law. What we think is the right way to go. I would like to stress that post-employment must be based on voluntary and not coercive – that it is something that the individual youth actually wants, and not something to be coerced into. The question is, do you actually get it? I will end by saying that in 2000 it was approx. 8 000 people aged 16 to 22 who were under child protection measures, while between 18 and 22 years of age this figure was less than 4 000 people. There's a lot of thousands of people disappearing on the day they're 18 years old. The question we have to ask ourselves then. [[President clubs]] I would also like to thank you for this debate and hope that the Council of State will take this further and focus on post-protection. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1267	The President is asking for the speaking time to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1270	I would like to thank everyone for the debate we have had on this important issue, which we have been informed about. The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, was in contact with the biological family – it is for the children who are either in a child protection institution or in a foster family. Of course, it's very important that you focus on it. At the same time, one must focus on the child’s best interests. In some cases, they may come from complicated family relationships, with major drug problems or other problems, and it goes without saying that it is not best for the child to have direct contact. This has to be considered in the various cases. We've been talking stories from both groups -- someone's had too little contact with their biological family, and other places have been asked about how clever it is to have frequent contact, in relation to how it works on the child in retrospect. It's very important that that theme gets attention. The representative, Karin Andersen, was involved in single minor asylum seekers. It is quite clear that there are also major challenges to the extra ballast they carry when they arrive. When it comes to child protection, there are a lot of challenges. We could spend a lot of time discussing it. I chose to focus on post-protection, because the phase from being a child to becoming a child is very demanding, and especially for children's protection. I have listened to several researchers who have been involved in the consequences – what happens to them after they become 18 years, how it goes. In Sweden, there has been some research into how these work. Therefore, many foster parents may feel that part of the important work that has been done is being destroyed when their children are grown up, if they are not able to take care of them after they are 18 years old. As the representative Karin Andersen said, we don't have much to say when our children are 18 years old. This makes it hard, because in theory, they're authoritative. We know that those who have biological children and who hear rumors that the child has a problem are pushing out to look even if the child is 18 or 20 years old. As foster parents, a formal work is not actually allowed to be completed. I don't have any clear solutions to this challenge, but I think it's very important that the department discusses and discusses it: what does one do, and what can one do in collaboration with foster parents? Listening to them thinks I'm very important, so I want to encourage the Council of State to take this with her in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1285	Once again, we have had a constructive debate that highlighted some of the challenges, but also what it is important to focus on. Finally, I want to come up with a few things, including: what Karin S. Woldseth said about it with biological parents. There has been a change in child protection in recent years when it comes to thinking in that field. New methods are being used today, with more community-based measures starting from entering as early as possible to help the child — including the whole family — so that they do not experience a heavy and serious takeover. The whole thing that we're trying to do in child protection today is just to have it as a starting point. That's a very important point the representative took up, and I'm very concerned about that myself. The second is that point Karin S. Woldseth was inside that concerned oversight. I want to say that we are going to have a well-functioning oversight. The county should have the resources to go in and be very strict, and have the resources to supervise that also makes us confident that child protection delivers properly. It's important! As Karin Andersen was inside his post, in the VG there was a report from Oslo, which I think upset everyone. I want to say that the department takes it very seriously. We follow up very closely with the Municipality of Oslo. To what the representative Lars-Henrik Michelsen was talking about: we want a better decision-making basis once we have the two reports in the spring. Much of this is complicated, it's difficult to balance, and therefore it's important that we not only believe, but that we know, before we make political decisions. I conclude with that and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1300	So the debate is on case No. 6ths over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1306	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1314	During the debate, Bent Höie put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to implement more stringent maintenance requirements as soon as possible on the basis of completed consultation concerning amendments to § 19, § 24 and § 25 of the Foreign Regulation of 21 December 1990 No. 1028.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1340	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has tabled four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1387	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and carry out compulsory testing of the Norwegian knowledge of immigrants, knowledge of Norwegian social conditions, Norwegian history and Western culture where a certain level must be achieved before citizenship is granted. This level is assumed to be high enough for those who pass the test to have good opportunities to participate in Norwegian society.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1424	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-11.ana.ud1635e1454	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
