ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e18	The former alternate of the West-Agder County, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken the seat of representative. The representative Anders Anundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e26	I have the pleasure on behalf of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt, Bård Hoksrud and myself to propose the establishment of a free school material scheme for high school students, such as book and material cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e31	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matter is dealt with on today's map, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 15 to the current map has been completed. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e47	I am pleased that the Minister of Defence and I are being given an open presentation of the crisis in the Middle East. The fact that the Storting has been convened exceptionally for this debate shows the seriousness of the situation. It is the Government that takes decisions on Norwegian participation in international operations. When such decisions are taken, it is constitutional practice for the bodies of the Grand Duchy to be consulted. We have had good reason for this on several occasions. I am pleased that these consultations have shown that there is a broad dissension in the Storting about the Government's desire to contribute four missile torpedo boats – MTBs – and necessary military support personnel to the expanded UNIFIL force. An open account of an aggregate accumulation and broad publicity is an important anchor for the Government in such a central matter as this. For the military personnel who are soon on a demanding mission, it means a lot to know that there is broad support in the Storing behind the decision. The summer crisis began on July 12 when Hezbollah attacked an Israeli patrol on the Israeli side of the border. The UN Security Council held responsible for the outbreak of the war at Hezbollah. In the battles that followed, more than 1,000 Lebanese civilian lives were lost. Many were killed when they tried to escape the fights. In Israel, about 40 civilian lives were lost. The government immediately condemned the attack of Hezbollah on Israel and the rocket attacks on Israel. The government has underlined Israel's right to defend itself against the attacks of Hezbollah, but at the same time we have condemned Israel's massive bombing of Lebanese infrastructure and other civilian targets, even outside areas where Hezbollah has been active. Israel's reaction, in our opinion, has gone beyond what has been necessary and proportionate. The civilian victims and suffering are disproportionate to the threat faced by Israel. This war also directly affected us because many Northmen stayed in the area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reduced a crisis loss on 14 July which immediately initiated the evacuation of the northern men from Lebanon. The Board of Governors also met, and a number of departments, agencies and organisations contributed to the action that followed. It worked to evacuate most of them in the course of a little over a week. The Norwegian authorities assisted more than 1000 Norwegian citizens and others with a valid stay in Norway to leave Lebanon. More than 1,000 people from other countries also received such assistance from Norwegian authorities. In view of the serious developments in Lebanon, it was important that the UN Security Council reached agreement on Resolution 1701 a month ago today. It took a long time, with difficult negotiations. Now there will always be aspects of such a text that you might want to change, but it is of great importance that the entire Security Council could end up with the decision. The decision helped to put an end to the fighting. This demonstrates the central importance of the United Nations in addressing serious threats to international peace and security. Resolution 1701 provided guidelines for the resolution of the conflict in Lebanon and may at the same time affect the region as a whole. When a single Security Council thus supports the resolution, it means a common responsibility for the United Nations Member States to contribute to its implementation. The government has taken it the most seriously. The political follow-up will take place at the UN Security Council, initially when the Secretary-General will soon report on the implementation of the resolution. I am pleased that we have now been given decisive clarifications on the tasks, composition and exposure rules of the operation, i.e. rules governing the use of power. On this basis, the Government has been able to participate in the Norwegian participation. This was confirmed to the United Nations on Tuesday last week. The Minister of Defence will explain this in more detail. Let me stress that there are still contacts about the detailed provisions for the mission of the forces, including on the maritime force. The government follows these closely and will be ready to continuously adapt its decisions to the nature of the mission. The Lebanese Prime Minister, to me, welcomed the Norwegian contribution to UNIFIL. There is no doubt that Lebanon wants an enlarged UNIFIL, but there is still a need to clarify the operational mandate of a Marine Force. It is positive that Norway can now participate in an international mission with the contribution of the marine. I would like to stress that participation in Lebanon will not be at the expense of our commitments in Afghanistan and the opportunities to contribute to any future UN force in Darfur. It is important that so many European countries have agreed to participate in the UNIFIL operation. Overall, these will account for about half of the planned extension. It gives the strength of credibility, political and military, while at the same time showing the willingness of European countries to contribute to solutions to a serious conflict in one of Europe's neighbourhoods. It is a good thing that Europe is now taking greater responsibility and that it can also be implemented at political level. It is also important that the strength is broadly composed geographically. It is increasing the weight of the operation that Muslim countries will also contribute strengths. Continued work is ongoing with Lebanese authorities to put in place effective border control. This is essential to prevent the illegal supply of weapons. To succeed, we must have control both at sea and at Syria. There are still some clarifications here, but it can't be decisive that we're not already ready to participate in the operation. The government has been — and is — committed to ensuring broad support for such an approach in the EEA. The summer crisis in the Middle East is one of the most serious in many years. At the same time, we have a worrying development in Iraq and increasing security problems in Afghanistan and Sudan. Iran has serious disputes with large parts of the world society and with the UN Security Council on its nuclear programme. This further underlines the need to address the serious situation in Lebanon in order to avoid greater instability in the region. We need a broad and inclusive political process to solve the serious problems facing this region. It is important here that moderate Muslim countries contribute. The situation in Lebanon is still fragile. However, we must stress that the truce continues to hold, and that the various elements of the resolution are gradually being translated into practice. It is positive that the withdrawal of Israeli forces continues. It is the first time in decades that the regular Lebanese army is now operating all the way south. It is important for the territorial integrity of Lebanon. It is also positive that Hezbollah has left his positions south of the Litani River. Complete disarmament of Hezbollah is still a difficult question — yes, there is little doubt that this is one of the main challenges in the future. Success requires continued political progress in the internal political dialogue in Lebanon. I am pleased that the Israeli Air and Sea Bloc of Lebanon has now been lifted. An enhanced UNIFIL in place shall be capable of enforcing the arms embargo against Hezbollah and other armed groups. Without the blockade, reconstruction work could be easier. The question of the Israeli soldiers in the custody of Hezbollah will also affect the relationship between Israel and Lebanon. Norway has condemned the abduction, is in favour of immediate release and has called for a broader dialogue on release. It is uncertain in what direction Lebanon will develop after the severe crisis this summer. It is nevertheless essential that Prime Minister Siniora has the power to hold the government together through the war weeks. We have given him our strong political support through these weeks, and we have also sought to be early out with humanitarian aid for the war-torn population. The main task now will be to help stabilise the situation and to restore the country in the long term. Here, the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1559, if so. Disarmament of Hezbollah, stand central. Furthermore, we need a broad international commitment to secure and build stability in Lebanon. Reform and strengthening of the security sector, including the Lebanese army, will be an important lever for the moderate forces in the country. In my opinion, NATO can also play a role in this work. From the Norwegian side, we will work towards Lebanon being invited into NATO's Mediterranean dialogue. It will also be essential for countries such as Iran and Syria to engage constructively in a lasting peace in Lebanon. The UN Secretary-General has recently received assurances both from Syria and from Iran that they will respect Resolution 1701. This is a good start, and it underscores the value of the diplomacy of Kofi Annan – yes, it shows how important the UN has been both in advance and after the ceasefire. It is necessary for Syria and Iran to comply with their obligations under the UN Decision. Iran's nuclear programme is here a complicating factor. The country’s attitude to this issue is alarming. The Board of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA — where Norway is represented — is now meeting to discuss this issue. The IAEA does not exclude Iran from carrying out a weapons programme in addition to the civil programme. At the same time, we know that Iran is continuing to enrich uranium, contrary to the demands of the UN Security Council. It is important to avoid Iran building a nuclear capacity. This will further weaken the stability of the region. From the Norwegian side, we have underlined the need for Iran to comply with the demands of the international community. At the same time, we have underlined the need for dialogue with the Iranian authorities to find a political solution. This message will be repeated in connection with the IAEA Governing Board meeting today, and we continue to support the negotiations conducted by the EU. It is important that the international community can identify approaches to engage and commit countries such as Syria and Iran in a political process. After the ceasefire in Lebanon, the humanitarian situation has improved. However, there is a great need for humanitarian aid, in particular support for the returnees who are currently in temporary shelter. We also know that unexposed cluster munitions and unexploited mines pose a major threat to the civilian population. Norway is making an important contribution here by supporting the clean-up process through, inter alia, Norwegian People's Aid. This results in results. Several hundred unplayed items are rendered harmless daily, but the problem is huge, and it will take a long time to remove it. Norway was one of the first countries to contribute to the UN emergency appeal and is one of the leading donors of the Lebanon appeal. We also contributed through the UN Emergency Aid Fund. Total assistance to Lebanon this year has risen to 200 million. NOK, which includes 10 million. oil spills caused by the war and Israeli oil refinery bombing near Beirut. The Norwegian oil protection equipment was immediately inserted into the clean-up process and has been highly valued by the Lebanese authorities. The Stockholm Conference on 31 August showed wide international support for the reconstruction of Lebanon. The participating countries committed themselves to giving $1 billion to the first reconnaissance phase, and that is twice the goal of the conference. Nor must we help to normalize the situation in Lebanon – yes, strengthening the authority of the Lebanese government is essential to ensure peace. A long-term Norwegian exposure should have a clear nation-building and stabilising dimension. An unstable Lebanon could threaten peace throughout the Middle East. The serious development of the Middle East region is reinforced by the continuing unexplained situation in the Palestinian region. The suffering suffered by the civilian population in Gaza as a result of the Israeli military action is totally unacceptable. Israel has the right to self-defense. We have condemned the abduction of the Israeli soldier and have joined the demand that he be released and that the missile attacks on Israeli cities from Gaza cease. At the same time, we believe that the destruction of infrastructure – here, as in Lebanon – is out of proportion to the violation of Israel when an Israeli soldier was kidnapped in June. Israel's use of power will create new, deep wounds to a population that has already been hard tried. It will again pose a serious safety risk to Israel. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict must return to the negotiating table. It is positive that Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas now seem to agree to meet for political talks. We have supported President Abbas on the Norwegian side in establishing a political basis that is consistent with the demands of the international community. It will be important both for the situation in the Palestinian region and for the region as a whole that we can resume normal international cooperation with the Palestinian authorities. Norway has the premise to contribute, both through our historical commitment and our current contacts with all sides of the conflict and through our chairmanship of the donor coordination group. In addition, Norway has been asked by the Palestinian President to contribute to: the situation in Gaza is being resolved that a new Palestinian government can have a political platform that opens up new cooperation with the international community to establish normal economic and political contacts between the Palestinians and the international community on the basis of political contacts between the parties in order to achieve long-term solutions; Norwegian diplomacy and political work will seek to contribute along these tracks, as well as maintaining close and continuous contact with Israel and other parties and actors that are relevant to the development of the region. We have also strengthened our humanitarian commitment to the Palestinian territories. The government initiated a donor country meeting in Geneva on 14 July, which Norway, together with Sweden and Spain, followed up with a meeting in Stockholm on 1 September. Here it was mobilised over $200 million for humanitarian action in the Palestinian region. Norwegian support for the Palestinian population through the UN and voluntary and humanitarian organisations accounts for about two thirds of our overall assistance to the Middle East. In response to the growing humanitarian crisis, Norway has pledged exceptional EUR 150 million during July. kr. This year, Norway will provide about 300 million. kr to the Palestinian Territory, which is thus one of the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian humanitarian aid. This is in addition to about 350 million. kr in development aid for 2006. There is reason to say, as the Prime Minister pointed out in April, that Norwegian support for the Palestinian region in 2006 is as large or larger as it was in 2005. Now we see that the answer is that it gets larger. The Middle East conflicts have long historical lines that capture side conflicts and affect peace and stability worldwide. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is centered and must be resolved so that the occupation can cease, so that the Palestinians can have their own state, so that the people of Israel can live in security, and that both states can evolve within internationally recognised borders. Israel claims that the purpose of the action in Gaza and Lebanon is to ensure its own security. However, unilateral use of power and continued occupation will never give Israel lasting security. The reaction of Hezbollah's attack, as well as the military response of Israel in Gaza, is disproportionate to what triggered the reaction. It will take generations to rebuild what is destroyed in Lebanon, not only materially, but also psychologically. Hezbollah, who claims to fight for Lebanon's independence and independence, is also responsible for unacceptable attacks that endanger the lives of innocent Israelis and Lebaneses. I am convinced that the way this policy is conducted will only create greater distrust, strengthen polarisation and consolidate the hatred between neighbours who need to learn to live together. In addition to the right to self-defence, a military solution to the historic problems of the Middle East will not be feasible. It creates ground for more violence, insecurity and extremism. And it's worth remembering it on this day we're meeting today, September 11. Moderate cancers are marginalized. The long-term effects will be that any attempt at democratisation in the region will be undermined. New diplomatic peace initiatives must therefore be launched as an alternative to military logic. In addition to providing guidance for the resolution of the Lebanon crisis, Resolution 1701 should trigger diplomatic initiatives for regional negotiation dynamics and focus on solutions along what is left – both of established tracks and initiatives to follow new tracks. It's happened before. The Gulf War led to the Madrid Peace Conference in 1991, the subsequent Oslo Agreement between the PLO and Israel in 1993 and a number of other agreements in that part of the 1990s. It is positive that the UN has now taken the lead through Resolution 1701. At all, summer events show the crucial role that the United Nations was going to play. This was not the time for a single country. No single country outside the region could sort it out. It was the United Nations, with its mandate and legitimacy, that gave the framework for a ceasefire. And it's the United Nations and the UN Secretary-General who's run the shuttle diplomacy. The implementation of the resolution can be an important contribution to creating momentum in the work on solutions also on other outstanding issues. We need a long-term political solution that includes all the parties in the Middle East. Today’s incoherent and piecemeal strategies will not lead to the breaking of the spiral of violence. If the international community is to maintain its credibility, a regional agenda must be set. A common security initiative must be taken. We need to have a diplomatic process that involves rights and obligations, and the key to ensuring lasting peace is to develop political systems that provide room for moderation and democracy. Norway will be active in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e171	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has already explained the general situation in the Middle East and Lebanon and the general lines of Security Council Resolution 1701. I would therefore like to concentrate in my presentation on our concrete plans for the contribution to an enlarged UN force and the leadership of Resolution 1701 for this force's composition, tasks and rules of use. Resolution 1701 is the very basis for the ceasefire that exists today between Israel and Lebanon. In order to maintain a lasting ceasefire, it is essential that UNIFIL be able to provide effective assistance to the Lebanese authorities in a military manner, so that they can ensure the security of South Lebanon, and prevent the area from re-establishing hostilities. The Security Council, through Resolution 1701, authorised an increase in UNIFIL from today's 2000 to 15 000 soldiers. At the same time, the strength has been given a number of more robust mandates than before. Among other things, it opens up all available resources and takes action to prevent their responsibilities from being used for enemy activity. However, the operation is still considered to be a Chapter VI operation. The mandate of the resolution is further clarified by the operational concept and supported by robust and clear rules for the use of power. Following feedback from Norway and a number of other countries, over the past few weeks, the UN has made substantial further development and improvement of both the concept of operation, the command conditions and the rules of use of power, especially on the maritime side. The maritime force shall, in accordance with the concept, monitor Lebanese territorial waters and control and, where appropriate, ship, in order to prevent illegal weapons from being carried by sea to Lebanon. The territorial waters shall be checked according to the concept in such a way that Israel is not given any incentive to enter itself. This means that the strength must effectively prevent any armed grouping from operating in the area. Exposure rules have also been significantly improved and more robust. I would particularly stress that no rules prevent the maritime power from using power to defend itself. To give an example: if a foreign ship arrives at a Norwegian MTB at full speed, fails to respond to signs and orders to stop, and there is reason to believe that the ship intends to hit the MTB, the Norwegian force or other UN force may both shoot alerts and, in the extreme case, lower the vessel before it comes close enough to harm the MTB or crew on board. The rules on the use of power will also provide the strength with sufficient credibility to carry out the task of controlling ship traffic into the coast of Lebanon and to prevent the illegal transport of weapons or other military material. Firstly, the exposure rules give the strength to use sufficient power against those who may seek to prevent the strength of their tasks. Secondly, the force is given the opportunity to use the necessary and proportionate power to stop, redirect, raise, table, inspect or search suspected civil vessels which do not voluntarily comply with the force's instructions. France has undertaken to extend support to the management of the UNIFIL operation until February 2007, after which Italy has agreed to take over. UNIFIL headquarters shall be significantly strengthened, in particular with a view to carrying out joint land, maritime and air-military operations. Until now, the United Nations has had little experience in managing such joint operations, both in the force headquarters, but also in the United Nations centrally. In addition, a UNIFIL unit will therefore be established centrally in the United Nations in New York. This unit, which will be around 30 people, will be run by Italy first and then by France. This is a very positive development of command and control arrangements, which will better enable the UN to conduct complex joint operations. Germany has offered to manage the maritime strength component, which is planned to consist of four frigates, ten MTBs and three supporting vessels, as well as maritime surveillance aircraft. A number of countries, including Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Turkey and Greece, have signalled willingness to participate by ship. The Norwegian contribution is likely to be coordinated in a German-Nordic framework. With regard to ground forces, EU countries have agreed to contribute between six and seven thousand soldiers. Furthermore, several non-Western countries have made great contributions in view of the UN. As a result, the UN has been offered a sufficient number of well trained and equipped military forces. With a clear and strengthened operational concept, more robust exposure rules, enhanced command structure and adequate strength contributions, the UNIFIL strength should be guaranteed the ability to resolve mandates and ensure its own safety in a military and legally sound manner. The government thus believes that the prerequisites are in place to send a Norwegian maritime force to a United Nations operation in Lebanon, as requested by the United Nations. The Norwegian contribution will be built around four missile torpedo boats in the Hauk class and will be subject to a maritime chief of command. Overall, this will amount to about 100 people. The offer of such a contribution from Norway was formally confirmed to the UN at a team contribution meeting last week. If so requested by Norway, it will also be possible to make further smaller maritime contributions, such as: specialized boarding teams and logistical and management elements. The contribution could also be supplemented by a small number of staff officers and military observers. Detailed design of our contribution will take place in close dialogue between Norway, the United Nations and the country designated by the United Nations to lead the maritime contribution, probably Germany. On 6 September the Prime Minister of Lebanon sent a formal request to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for support to control Lebanese territorial waters. However, there are still some uncertainties about the Lebanese request and these need to be clarified before Norwegian forces can participate in the operation. Such clarification is, of course, necessary for all countries to participate with maritime forces. Until vessels under UN command can be in place, French, Italian and British vessels will assist the Lebanese authorities on a bilateral basis. The four MTBs that will be sent are currently on standby for any resumption of escort operations in the Gibraltar Strait during NATO’s ‘Active Endeavour’ operation. However, vessels will be able to be redispatched and may be operational for the UN in Lebanese waters from the month-end of September/October. The Defence Manager has underlined that the crews are fully qualified to carry out the type of operations referred to here. Experienced command and specialists will be used in executive positions and critical functions. These will be supported by an approximately equal number of private parties to the contract. Vessels and crew are pre-designed and certified for NATO operations. I therefore have great confidence that our forces are well qualified to solve the mission. I can assure the Storting that security for my own soldiers – as always – will have very high priority. The provision of staff both during and after the service is also given great weight. The squadron sent to the Mediterranean Sea will include experienced support personnel, including: pastor, interpreter, doctor and anaesthetic nurse. If any medical, social or other reasons were to be sent home before the end of the mission, they would be taken care of and followed up by the MTB weapon organisation and the Marine Defense Support Team at Haakonsvermn. The Marine Defense Support Team will also conduct a thorough follow-up of the personnel after completion of the mission, with reception calls and medical checks, and possibly with follow-up 3 to 6 months after dissection. If some crews were to have problems that only arise relatively long after dissection, then the Swedish Defence Administration and national military outpatient clinic will always be helpful in any queries. We shall not try to conceal that the danger of a new armed conflict in the area is still present. Therefore, the government cannot stress enough that any Norwegian strength contribution will be carefully assessed against the current threat and will be trained and equipped in relation to it. As I myself have mentioned on a number of occasions, the security of our own soldiers has been given crucial importance in all assessments of participation in an expanded UNIFIL force. The financial framework for military participation in international operations in 2006 is 800 million. kr. This is entirely linked to the commitments undertaken by Norway in ongoing operations. The Government therefore assumes that the additional costs of any involvement in Lebanon amounting to 100 million. additional NOK is granted. The costs will depend to a certain extent on the support elements that Norway will have to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e215	The President will now propose that a debate be opened on the statements, but that the provision of Section 34a of the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure on the organisation of debates immediately following the presentation be waived and that proposals be made open. – This is deemed to be adopted. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 million minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e224	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence for the distribution and for this opportunity to discuss this matter openly. This summer we witnessed again that the spiral of power in the Middle East took new turns. Again there were great civil sufferings and losses. So got new mistrust, new fear, and new hate nourishment, and once again positive processes were stopped. Hezbollah's actions on Israel were totally illegitimate and can in no way be defended. The purpose of Israel's response to the country's attacks was to safeguard the security of its own inhabitants. It is a legitimate right that each country has. I'm afraid, however, that the methods and extent of Israel's countermeasures have contributed to the opposite of Israel's creating new enemies with its course of action and giving rise to new grobs for extremist groupings. Israel acted in breach of international rules to ensure that countermeasures are consistent with the commitments to which it is subject. The longer one in the Middle East believes that all problems can be solved by military means alone, the longer all actions will be answered with retaliation, the longer the ‘tooth for tooth’ and the ‘eye for eye’ seem to be the current philosophy, the farther away the peace is. The more one understands that problems and inconveniences in the Middle East cannot be solved militarily, the more one understands that one must live in coexistence with one's neighbours, the more a twinkling hope for a more peaceful future can be. The security of people living in the Middle East can only take place over time, through dialogues and agreements made at the negotiating table. Should a few lasting peace and stability, all must be taken along, and all must have their proper place. Instead of being a passive observer of the acts of war, the international community took responsibility. Through strenuous diplomatic work, pressure and negotiations, it was possible to help end the acts of war. Resolution 1701, agreed by the Security Council, provided a truce and a basis for repatriation. The UN's contribution to bringing an end to the fighting was invaluable, and the UN acted in such a way as to hope that the UN will work. Even if it has taken some time, we can also see today that the international community is taking its responsibility, setting aside the necessary military forces. It is good that so many countries from Europe stand up, and it is also good that several Muslim countries have said they are willing to join forces. It is an important signal that strengths become multi-national and multi-cultural. When the United Nations makes a unanimous decision, and when this decision relates to an area where Norway has historically shown great interest, it should, in my view, be very good grounds for doing so if Norway does not respond to a request to participate. Such a reason could of course be that we did not have the necessary military capacity in addition to the international missions we all participated in or have made ourselves available for. I am therefore pleased that Norway too can contribute, and that we can do so without jeopardising our ongoing work in Afghanistan, and in a way that also takes care of the promises relating to a possible contribution in Darfur. Of course, in each military mission that Norway participates in, the security of its own forces must be a priority. I notice that our contribution has become possible by having a mandate that allows both the preservation of their own security, and also provides the means to carry out what is the purpose of the mission, to control Lebanese waters and to prevent unwanted traffic. It is also important that Norwegian teams receive the necessary follow-up and assistance while in service and after they come home. History has many examples of how it has been easier to model support for military action, or presence, than for necessary humanitarian support and support for repatriation after a military conflict. Military presence in Lebanon is enough decisive to put an end to the acts of war and to safeguard the security of the inhabitants of both Lebanon and Israel. Should the weapon stand become permanent, I still believe it is urgent to stabilize Lebanon and get into business with visible repatriation. I want to pay tribute to the Government for having seen the driver's seat to get enough international support for an absolutely necessary effort to follow up the military presence with a visible improvement in living conditions. The gift meeting in Stockholm gave happy promises of large amounts for repatriation. Now it's important that this is translated into activity on the ground. A visible improvement in living conditions and the repatriation of infrastructure will give the people of Lebanon the understanding that the international community stands up and hopes to contribute to the continuation of the democratic process that started in Lebanon. It is important to give the government of Lebanon the support that is possible, and thus give her room for action to really govern in own land. A key to happiness is to disarm Hezbollah and other groupings in the country. The first step in such a process is to prevent the introduction of new weapons. Here Norway shall contribute on the sea side. But effective and effective border control on the Syrian side is also important. Even if it's urgent to get a disarmament of Hezbollah, I have faith that one can do this by military means. The processes that were in progress before the war took place must continue, so that one can integrate Hezbollah into the Lebanese community, and that Hezbollah sees himself tending to deliver his weapons. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like the world's media powers to see more than one conflict or disaster zone at a time. In the shadow of the war in Lebanon, the situation in Gaza and the West Bank has gone from bad to worse. The humanitarian situation is precarious, and normal social structures break down. Here too, the need for increased international involvement and international assistance is great. Here too, a few must be a diplomatic solution, and one must model international aid. The pressure needs to be applied to the parties, and help needs to be provided to those who need it most. Although the situation seemed hopeless, there is work to achieve a more normalised relationship between the parties. The president of the self-governed Palestinian territories must be supported by his plans for a new assembly government, a government that meets the international demands of today's Palestinian government. Israel must be pushed to the negotiating table. Once again, I would like to claim that this conflict cannot be resolved by military means either. The Labour Party gives its full support to the Government's efforts to contribute to peace and better conditions for its inhabitants in the Middle East. The Labour Party gives its full support to the humanitarian efforts directed against Lebanon and the Palestinian territories, and the work being carried out internationally to get more involved in this work. The Labour Party also supports our military support, as the representatives of the Government have done well. It has been a difficult summer in the Middle East. The situation has worsened, and hatred and suspicion have been given a new nourishment. However, the military presence and the promises of humanitarian aid give us a new situation. Let's all hope that the parties in the Middle East will see this, and that they will use the new situation to take new steps for a common and more just coexistence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e260	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e263	As probably everyone has come along, the Progress Party has been very sceptical about sending vulnerable short-service teams down to Lebanon where there can be sharp conflicts. The mission itself is good enough. Of the more than 100 people we're going to send down, a large part have earned only a few months of protection. My question will be whether the Workers' Party feels comfortable with such a situation, and whether the Workers' Party is absolutely sure that the crews we send are well enough to meet any armed conflict. The party of progress is skeptical and wants crews to have at least earned the term of duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e270	Of course, when Norway participates internationally, it is important that we provide with staff who are able to handle the job they have been given. What we have been invited to do today is discuss whether Norway should participate with staff in Lebanon. Then it is that the Storing has previously discussed the arrangements for the military forces in Norway, the construction of them and how they might be able to contribute internationally. I think it would be unnatural to make new changes in the way we recruit personnel in a situation that has arisen as a result of an international event. Therefore, it has been important for the Labour Party that we have discussed the principal issues relating to Norwegian contributions. When there is a situation where sending people off guard becomes a matter of urgency, we have this as a basis for the selection of the personnel. So we have full confidence that the people who are sent here by the guard are able to take care of the job they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e277	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e280	Today it is five years since the terrorist attack in the United States, which was also an attack on the free world. It must necessarily be seen in connection with the events of the last weeks in Lebanon and the reason why we are here today. On July 12, Israel was attacked. They were not attacked by Lebanon, but by an illegal paramilitary terrorist organization, known as Hezbollah, a militia that the UN itself has demanded to be disarmed. So on July 12, an illegal private militia crossed the border with Israel and entered the Israeli territory, killed several Israeli soldiers and kidnapped two. In addition, Hezbollah from his positions in Southern Lebanon launched new rocket attacks against targets in Israel. That was the start of the war in Lebanon, and it must not be forgotten in the discussions in the wake of this. So it was not Israel who started this, and Israel's reaction must, after all, be understood as an act of self-defense. Initially, I want to give praise to the Government, and in particular to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for how in the summer the evacuation of the North from these vulnerable areas was managed. It was done in an excellent way, and I think I deserve praise from the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But this is a war between the United Nations member Israel and an Islamic terrorist group that controls the southern part of Lebanon and has taken Lebanon as a hostage to further its goal of eradicating the United Nations State of Israel. Six years ago, Israel withdrew from Lebanon and the United Nations, through Resolution 1559 of 2004, decided that Hezbollah and the remaining Lebanese and non-Lebanese militia groups should be disarmed. It hasn't happened. I think it's an essential part of this discussion as well. The UN has a significant responsibility for the situation that has now arisen because the UN has failed to follow up a decision they themselves have taken on the disarmament of Hezbollah. And now we are in a situation, and I think the UN should take that responsibility and also recognise that they have failed when an operation is started in the area. Sending Norwegian soldiers on missions abroad is not an easy decision, and especially when it comes to a conflict zone with the potential to be particularly dangerous. Thus, the Norwegian authorities choose to send a significant number of personnel with four months of experience through protection obligations. I do not consider that to be experienced personnel, and I find it alarming that the government does not see concerns with this practice at all. In my opinion, it illustrates the general pressure that the Norwegian defence has now come out of after many years with the reduction of Norwegian defence budgets. I also believe there is reason to criticise the Government for the procedure here. The government went out publicly and declared Norwegian strength contributions long before consulting the bodies of Storting, as it is so well called, which I believe is critical, not least in the situation we are now facing, where – and it confirmed the Minister of Defence himself in his statement – there are still uncertainties about the Lebanese request. As a result, Germany, which seems to be one of our closest allies to the mission to be carried out by Norway, has postponed its formal decision on what kind of strength contribution to send. It's a powerful signal. We are facing a situation where we are still awaiting the formal clarification from Lebanon, and where we are running a significant risk, as long as this situation continues to be unsolved, for Hezbollah to be provided with new weapons, which of course can also help to make the situation even more dramatic and unsolved than it already is. It is a moment that I think the present state councils should be more concerned about later in the debate and that is worrying. I also think that the duration of this mission has been underestimated by the Government. When we first engage in UNIFIL, there's nothing to suggest that it's going to be a short-term assignment. And then the question is, how has the government planned to deal with it in the future? Is it now a practice to continue recruiting vulnerable persons with three to four months of defence experience, which will then expand its horizons by engaging in sharp conflicts – potentially sharp conflicts at least – in Lebanon? I think it's an unfortunate practice to put on if that's the Government's ambition. The Progress Party agrees that Norway has a responsibility to contribute to the UNIFIL team. We have many years of tradition and experience, but you have to be a little more critical of the personnel you send. I therefore allow myself to address the proposals distributed in the hall, which are general and relate to Norwegian participation in various types of foreign operations, not least in relation to addressing the need for our personnel to follow-up both health and psychosocially while they are on the job, but not least after they have completed their mission and come home, and then both in the short and long term. Sensation damage is often very difficult to detect early. It must be a professional system that takes care of the interests of our soldiers even after they have completed such missions. I also want to stay at another moment. The Government attaches considerable importance to the humanitarian assistance to be provided to Lebanon, but also to other parts of the area. But those governments consistently do not have ambitions to assist humanitarianly, Israel, which has been hit by this. I dare then remind the Government that under then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, in connection with the Gulf War, where Israel was also hit by rockets, Norway sent humanitarian aid to Israel. I wonder why the Government has now suddenly got some kind of principleal counter-representation against assisting the Israelis, who are also hit, exposed and struggling on the same footing with very many others in this region. I think the government owes me that. This is a serious situation. Of course, the government has full responsibility for Norwegian forces that are now being sent by farms. The Progress Party has repeatedly warned against sending very young, inexperienced personnel to this kind of mission and conflict, and we will continue to warn against it. But the government has to bear the responsibility for this, and if the government is sure that these personnel are well enough trained after so little experience, you get to take the government's word for it. However, I still think that in the future there should be a more detailed discussion of what kind of policy to put on from the Norwegian side when sending soldiers out in foreign operations. If we have come into a situation where the Norwegian defence is so hard pressed that we have no other recruitment option than to send so young and inexperienced people in potentially very dangerous and sharp conflicts, then the Norwegian defense has a problem. It should discuss this room in a completely different context, because it will do something with the confidence of the Norwegian defense and our ability to recruit crew over time. It's worrying, and that's why we should do something about it. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party, and I expect the Government to regularly inform the Stortinget about the development of the area, not least based on the possible continuation of the mission and how it is intended to be handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e308	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e314	During the Lebanon conflict in July, when the debate started on the possibility of a new and more robust force for South Lebanon, the defence spokesperson of the Progressive Party was high on the ground and opposed. I am very pleased that the Progress Party today supports the principle that we are now participating in the new, robust UNIFIL force. So I think it's right that we recognize that in earlier times, not least in Lebanon, the forces that we sent might not have been at the same time enough, and that they suffered damage. Today, the defense takes responsibility. I would like to ask whether Siv Jensen does not trust both the health of the defence and the defence to handle and follow up the soldiers we have abroad. And so: I mean, the most important thing when we're going to send forces abroad is that they're co-interest, robust and mature. Then, of course, it has to be voluntary, and they have to have a contract with the Defense. I would like to ask whether the Progress Party agrees that it is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e323	I agree with a lot of what Marit Nybakk says, I, but the question is whether she believes that a soldier with four months of training in the Norwegian defence can be defined as robust and evenly. That's what's the big question in this context. We do not, of course, doubt – to take what was also the question – that the defence has a genuine desire to follow up its personnel. But it's a fact that many former UN soldiers are struggling with major sensitivities to which they have not received follow-up. It's worrying. It is this hall that has the top responsibility to ensure that the defence gets sufficient funds to take care of this as well. I think we have a separate responsibility for that, especially when we send soldiers more and more around to different parts of the world and in a completely different kind of mission than what our defense has previously been exposed to. It does something about the psyche of people, and we have to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e333	I fully share the concerns about the solar data from all three proposals from the Progress Party. So we also know that it's proven that there's a chapter 6-mandate we're after. It is a peacekeeping operation, not a peacemaking operation. We know that the sharpness of this mission is not what we've been on and on. That's why I'm surprised that the Progress Party is presenting these proposals right now, when there is a peacekeeping operation, and not when we've discussed the sharper missions in the past. Is it that the UN is out here and is the peace operator, or is it the concern that is clearly expressed by the proposals, that the Progress Party is putting them forward precisely in this operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e340	I would like to stress that our proposals are general and concern Norwegian forces in all foreign operations, regardless of their flag. I think that's important, but I think it's a little naive of Jacobsen's representative to hang this on a chapter 6 assignment and thus in a way make it clear that any potential danger in this mission is gone. No, rather on the contrary: we are going into a potential conflict, which is mainly about disarming a terrorist organisation. I don't mean to joke about that. All the time that goes until this force is in place in the area is to increase the risk to all the soldiers who are to be present, simply because there is every reason to believe that Hezbollah now has a large supply of weapons that can be used against the forces, whether of Norwegian or other nationality. That should also worry about SV. I think it's a little naive to hang this on a chapter 6 operation and then say that the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e347	As the debate shows, there is a broad consensus to take care of the soldiers who contribute on behalf of the Norwegian state. But I wonder a little about the performance of the Progress Party in the debate on Norwegian strength contributions. In front of the war against Iraq, the Defence Policy spokesman of the Progress Party, Per Ove Width, went out offensively and said that Norway should contribute with special forces, marine forces or in any way in an offensive attack war. This is done when you do not have a UN mandate, but the day it is a UN mandate, and it is a peacekeeping operation, the Progress Party comes and expresses itself critically to contribute there and comes with many types of reservations. Is this really credible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e354	I think you might want to follow up on what we're saying. When the Advance Party calls for the sending of special forces, there is talk of crews with considerable experience and training who are fully capable of participating in potentially hazardous operations around them. It has always been the line of the Progress Party that we should not go too far in changing young people who are under protection, who do not have experience, and who can thereby also get hurt in order to be exposed to much, much, much bigger problems, even in retrospect, than we might overlook. I think we should be able to nuance this in a discussion about where Norway should be involved in various operations around the world. In fact, if our defense is so bad that we have to draw turns on soldiers with four months of experience, I think there are other parties in this room that have to go in themselves and think a little bit about the seriousness of the defence budgets, and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e363	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e366	It is important that Norway has the capacity and will to contribute to international peace, security and stability, both diplomatic and military. However, it is not an end in itself that the Norwegian flag should be on the ground as much as possible. What should be crucial is that Norwegian strength contributions are robust enough, both professionally and materially, for the soldiers we send out to be able to carry out the mission in a good way. Therefore, it will sometimes be right for Norway to respond to requests for military participation in international operations that we support politically. Sending Norwegian soldiers out in international operations should be among the most serious decisions a government takes. Norwegian life has been lost and will also be able to do so in the future. The authorities must therefore facilitate the proper training and equipment of our soldiers. In order for our soldiers to carry out the mission they are assigned to, it is essential that the Government assess whether the conditions for sending out Norwegian forces are present, both politically and professionally. Norwegian soldiers' handling of the attack in Meymahne in February testifies that we are well rusted, but is also a reminder that foreign missions are risky. I want to support the honor of the soldiers and the defense for the professionalism that they showed. Of course, it has not come about by itself. The situation in Lebanon shows the need for rapid deployment of forces. The UN did not ask for a strong contribution in a few months, the contributions were requested in the Middle East in the course of the week. Today, after the change of defence, we have a significantly greater ability to deploy forces in national and international operations at short notice than we had in the past. Protective and skilled have been introduced to new and better material, and the defense has acquired experience that gives us niche capacities that we are alone about in the NATO alliance. The fact that we do not have the capacity today to make contributions from the Army in Lebanon is because we have committed ourselves to contributing to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. It is crucial for our credibility that neither Lebanon nor any Darfur contribution is at the expense of the job in Afghanistan. It is not only about respecting our obligations towards the Afghan people or towards allies in NATO, but also to the greatest extent about the interests of the world society and the UN. We want to contribute in many places, but have resources that often work best if we gather our efforts more closely. I want to stress that it is the responsibility of the Government to draw the final conclusions about sending out soldiers. But you just have to do it on the basis of consultations with the Stortinget to assess whether the political spine is right. On the Right, in these last few months, we have made two important demands to support our participation in Lebanon. The first thing I've said is, it's not at the expense of our commitment to Afghanistan. I record that the government has given clear signals about it. The second is that one has to be sure that the mission becomes clear enough, and that the freedom of action in relation to the operation becomes great enough, that the rules of engagement that exist make it possible to ensure the security of Norwegian soldiers, but also that the force can actually carry out the mission it is assigned to. In my opinion, it is an obligation when the state asks Norwegian soldiers to enlist for international service, first to assure us that the prerequisites for carrying out the mission are there. There must then be a clear mandate. There must be a freedom of action that allows the job to be performed, and the training and equipment must be good enough to ensure and handle it unforeseeable. To assess this is primarily the responsibility of the Government, because it is only the Government that has enough information and enough contact to do so. But I also note that in this process, the Government has said that what we have called for, is fulfilled, that the exposure rules and mandate for the operation by the Government are considered to enable the task to be resolved within the security of Norwegian forces. Therefore, the Right supports our participation in Lebanon with four MTBs and the other required support staff. The Norwegian contribution shall be limited to the coastline. Here, Norwegian MTBs will be led by experienced command. The fact that fresh crews are managed by experienced command within the framework of a vessel is an added security. But it is a prerequisite that all the crews participating in Lebanon have the necessary training, necessary resources and sufficient freedom of action in the mission. I would like to stress that one of the major changes we have made in Defence is to make sure that in the international operations in which we participate, there are co-interested forces who have practised the mission, and that there are largely standing forces who contribute to the various engagements. That's the greatest security factor we have. The most difficult situation will arise when we have to summon personnel who are not conscripted with the others, and practice them up before we send them out. So security is in combination, security is that everyone knows their job, and that you're well-trained before you have to go into conflict. Then I would like to stress that the Middle East conflict cannot be resolved by military means alone. It is therefore also a responsibility for the Government at diplomatic level to ensure that the mandate of UNIFIL is fully followed up, and here I am thinking in particular of the border with Syria. If the Syrian border is not effectively monitored, this could encourage widespread smuggling of weapons, and the result may quickly be that we are experiencing new warfare in Lebanon, and that UNIFIL is being involved in such renewed warfare. In the current situation, it is important to remember that this conflict has two sides. Hezbollah has planned and provoked an unnecessary, devastating war with a neighboring state. There has been an arbitrary protection of Israeli cities and cities, and one has cynically exploited Lebanese civilians as living shields, with the fatal consequences it has had. Israel has the right to defend itself against such attacks. We understand that Israel cannot sit still and see its soldiers being taken as hostages and rockets counting down its cities. But Israel does not have the right to use unlimited military power in its defence. They are responsible for a disproportionate use of power that has resulted in the killing of hundreds of civilians and the destruction of vital infrastructure. It is not in relation to the actual threat from Hezbollah, but rather leads to further radicalisation and destabilization in Lebanon and the region. We assume that the Norwegian diplomatic effort in the Middle East – together with other countries – will continue, and that the Government will ensure the necessary resources. The Middle East is an area where we have great competence in Norway, and it is good that it can still be used to help the parties find a solution. I also think it is important in the situation in Lebanon that we support the reconstruction of Lebanon, not because we must necessarily go into all areas where there are conflicts and we see the need for reconstruction, but because it is now vital in Lebanon that it is the Lebanese Government that builds up and that consolidates all the territorial areas of Lebanon, so that Hezbollah's ability to provide local support is reduced and that the dismantling and disarmament of Hezbollah can become more real. We can afford to contribute to the resolution of many humanitarian crises. To a greater extent than today, we should also be able to contribute militarily. But we expect when we do that, that we don't do it based on enthusiastic support for different types of organisations. When we send out Norwegian soldiers, it's based on an understanding that they're going to have the opportunity to do the assignment, the mission is going to be meaningful and it's going to be possible to solve, and we're going to make sure that those who leave are well enough trained to actually be able to solve their problems. Norwegian soldiers shall not be used for a political marking exercise around the world. They are to be used because military instruments are what are needed to resolve the conflict they are going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e404	SV is pleased that this debate is taking place in transparency in Stortinget. This will allow us to have a public debate about our international commitments – a anchor, but also more votes, which may be important when making decisions. This summer there has been a wide mobilization of forces here in Norway which have protested against Israel's brutal behaviour both in Lebanon and in Gaza. It shows that there is a lot of solidarity in the Norwegian population with those suffering in the Middle East. Such protests against the war are not a support to Hezbollah. Hezbollah differs decisively from, for example: SV's policy on important issues. We distance ourselves from the shooting of rockets, which have hit arbitrary civilian targets in Israel, and we also distance ourselves from the attack and abduction of Israeli soldiers by Hezbollah. Then the Security Council has also placed the responsibility for the outbreak of the war at Hezbollah. But the main responsibility for the development of the war – the background of the war – lies, however, with Israel, who repeated attacks in a very disproportionate way, attacks that led to great suffering for a country and a population that has suffered great suffering before. A large proportion of the killed are children. Large parts of the infrastructure are destroyed, and many are internally displaced in the country. I am pleased that the Government has so clearly condemned Israel's violation of international law, both in terms of disproportionate retaliation and attacks against civilians. History so far has shown that there will be no solution in the Middle East without a fair peace for all parties. The security that both Lebanese and Palestinians and peoples in Israel are entitled to does not come without leading forces in Israel putting aside the threat that bullets and powders will be able to solve the problems they face. There was some of the essence of what the foreign minister said, and that also several other speakers have mentioned. A paradox recognised by several of the architects behind Israel's Lebanon policy in the 1980s and 1990s is that Israel created its own enemy far along the way among Lebanon's Shia Muslims through the IDF occupation of South Lebanon and SLA's assault on the civilian population. This is how Israel has created revolts and opponents in the West Bank and Gaza. Thanks to the Israeli occupation from 1992 to 2000, Hezbollah has been given a strong political position in Lebanon, and this has also given Iran strong support players in the neighbourhood. The attack of summer has not weakened, but strengthened the position of Hezbollah. Not only because of this, but also because of this, it is important for the West to show strong action in relation to reconstruction of the infrastructure and to provide assistance to those in need – help now, as the Stockholm Conference also showed great willingness. So it's about shopping. But there must also be a willingness to solve the main issues that are constantly behind in order to ensure fair peace in the long term. SV supports the Government's decision to send four MTBs and 100 soldiers as a contribution to a larger UN force. It was the UN that provided the resolution that was the basis for the ceasefire. For us, it is now important that the UN takes responsibility for supporting under a shaky truce, because the truce is fragile. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to commend Secretary General Kofi Annan, who has been an important actor both before and after the ceasefire. There are some promising processes that need to be supported in Lebanon. Firstly, for the first time in many years, the Lebanese army has occupied positions in the south. This is a supporter of the authority and integrity of the Lebanese State. Secondly, Hezbollah has left the positions south of the Litani River. Thirdly, Israel's maritime and air blocks are almost lifted. Fourth, Prime Minister Siniora has the power to hold the Lebanese government together. Fifthly, Syria and Iran have assured Anna that they will respect Resolution 1701. For the SV, it has been essential that the UN force has not been given a mandate to continue where Israel failed, but is welcomed in Lebanon. A disarming of Hezbollah is one which has stressed the need to take place on the basis of political processes, and that is the primary responsibility of Lebanon. The strength is broadly composed. There are also countries there like Indonesia, which Israel would not want in the first place. The UN forces have a peacekeeping mission – with the maritime right to defend themselves and with mandate to power if the UN is actively prevented from doing the work to be done by the UN in accordance with UN Resolution 1701. With a UN force present in Lebanon, it can at least make it politically more difficult for Israel once again to enter Lebanon. Not least, it can provide spaces for civilians, such as: Norwegian People's Aid, to clean up the large number of class bombs that Israel dropped in the 72 hours before they knew a resolution would be adopted. There are 100 000 unexploded bombs, and it is clear that this is a great danger to the civilian population and can mutilate people every day. Clearing these class bombs is important for the Lebanese people to grasp their lives. No one knows how long the forces can last. First of all, we commit for six months. Then we have the opportunity to evaluate the situation, but as long as a United Nations force and our contribution have confidence in the Lebanese people, as long as we do a reasonable job, we have to be there. But it is not primarily a military presence that can ensure peace. Contribute to construction and a daily life with which the Lebanese can live is essential. But more importantly, this must be the start of an international effort to ensure justice for the Lebanese and Palestinians. That is, not just Resolution 1701, but the many resolutions of the United Nations on a two-state solution for Palestine and Israel, that Israel must respect the boundaries adopted by the international community, with the possibility of some minor adjustments, that Israel must withdraw from the occupied country, both in Palestine and in other parts of the Middle East, and finally that one must now begin to work for the 750,000 refugees displaced by the formation of the State of Israel to have some solution, return home or compensation. It is important, as the chairman of the Committee said, that we must now stand behind the possibility of getting a joint administration in Palestine. But if we are to do so, we must also get even stronger in order to release the Members of Parliament and the members of the Government who are in prison today. This Parliament in New Zealand has just made a call for it. EU parliamentarians have done the same. It is totally unacceptable for elected representatives to be imprisoned. It is not an easy decision to send soldiers to a war zone or to an area of so much dissatisfaction. We are going to take seriously the concerns people have about what can happen, and I believe that at least the proposals are no. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party address those concerns. Now it must be said that the Minister of Defence has explained that the Government is taking the concerns seriously. But for those of us who have seen the sufferings of former soldiers when they come home, with post-traumatic stress disorder and what it can mean both for a sail and for others, it's important to see if there's even more we can do. The government will do its job, but I see it so that in the proposals of the Progress Party there are intentions that will make it right to send them to the Government, so that the Government can look at what more can be done. I should like to ask that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities submit proposals. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e438	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e441	Experience from previous participation in international operations has unfortunately shown that many of our soldiers have suffered sensory injuries and psychological consequences after the service. At the same time, we know that the defense has had a very poor follow-up of the UN soldiers. This was also recently confirmed by the head of the Defence Sanctity Department. Is it comfortable from the Socialist Left Party to send our young people out when the follow-up is so deficient, and what will you do on the SV side to get the follow-up up to an acceptable level?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e447	Before I really answer this, I think it is quite remarkable that it is only during this operation that the Progress Party addresses these questions. I know that it has been done on a general basis before, also by SV. I have also met many soldiers with late injuries – some close to me – and I must say that it has made a strong impression. In the past, there has been a poor follow-up of the soldiers, but not least through pressure from both the Progress Party and SV, this has become much better. That is, we can never put our concerns aside. We have to see if we can do even more. One of the things we could have done was to see if the project Berea could be re-created. That was a good move. And then we have to look at other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e454	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e457	Once again, the Middle East has been struck by a tragic war. Once again, there is a need for assistance for those affected. Once again, the world community is being called upon for a peacekeeping operation. Norway must contribute to both — both reconstruction and peacekeeping. The Christian People's Party will give wholehearted support for this. But we believe that our solidarity must go to the victims both in Lebanon and in Israel. As an expression of this, Norway needs to provide assistance for reconstruction in both countries. And we believe that military effort is not enough. A broader approach is needed in the peace process. UN Security Council Resolution 1701 contributes to such a broad approach. We now have to make sure that it is implemented. We must prevent it from brewing a new war in the same area. But then we must also analyse the conditions that triggered this armed conflict. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence have provided good, comprehensive and useful information in their briefings. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will raise some important points for the success of the peace process. This war brought great suffering and destruction to both countries, it was precious to both of them, and it was not initiated by any of them. In practice, Lebanon and Israel have no border conflict between them. It cannot be strongly stressed that it was neither Israel nor Lebanon that triggered the war, but it hit them both hard – both economically and materially and by the loss of human life. Both countries and their people have our sympathy. It says a lot about the complex security situation in the Middle East that there was a third party, the non-governmental terrorist organisation Hezbollah, that caused the crisis and triggered the war. The concrete act that triggered the war was Hezbollah's raid into Israel on July 12, when they kidnapped two Israelis and killed even more in the strikes that followed this terrorist action. Hezbollah has built up his own arms power in South Lebanon, in violation of clear UN decisions. Let me just refer to the Security Council Resolution 1559 from two years ago, where the United Nations demanded that all military groups in Lebanon be wound up and disarmed. Many followed up the UN decision, Hezbollah did not. On the contrary, they built up their weapon power. That Hezbollah could do this is because Syria's involvement in Lebanese politics and extensive financial and military assistance from Iran. Hezbollah's dependence on these connections is a key to understanding what has happened, and to understanding how we can prevent it from happening again. For Syria, Hezbollah has been a piece they can use in the unresolved conflict with Israel over the Golan Heights. But the background for Hezbollah's terror against Israel is far deeper than that. The connection to Iran is no coincidence. The President of Iran has officially declared that Israel must be removed from the map. Hezbollah as an organization also has this as one of its two main goals; the other is to transform Lebanon into an Islamic state. In addition, Hezbollah is about to make Beirut a kind of capital of antisemitism in the world. The denial of the right of the State of Israel to exist in the Middle East – as they see it as Muslim territory – unfortunately they also share with Hamas, who used to have government power in the Palestinian territories this year. The Christian People's Party believes that this must have important leadership in today's debate – both on the peacekeeping operation and on aid for reconstruction. There cannot be lasting peace without Israel's right to exist as a state being accepted by their Arab neighbours in the Middle East. Egypt and Jordan have for the longest time gone ahead and signed peace agreements with Israel. There should also be more. A peaceful negotiated solution with Syria can become a rescuing key. We must encourage this on the Norwegian side. In this way, it has been interesting to meet politicians from the area who see hope in the situation that has arisen and who see that the need for more parties to take new action can contribute to a movement throughout the situation. Nor can there be lasting peace in the Middle East as long as Israel’s neighbors give refuge to militias who terrorize Israel. We have seen that for a long time in Lebanon, but also in the Palestinian territories. There can be no lasting peace until Israel negotiates a solution with the Palestinians. But then Israel must have a party to negotiate with – that is, a Palestinian government that is prepared to accept the State of Israel's right to live, which takes away from terror, and which accepts the agreements concluded between Israel and the Palestinian authorities, including the Road to Peace. These demands have been made by the United Nations and the international community to the Hamas administration in the Palestinian territories, but Hamas has not accepted them so far. Both Israel and the Palestinians must be willing to compromise politically when such negotiations come, but negotiations are not possible until a change is made on the Palestinian side. I perceive the Minister of Foreign Affairs there today that this is still the line of the Government. We want to support Norwegian participation in the UN peacekeeping operation, but we stress that the operation cannot succeed without Lebanon's army – and not irregular military groups – controlling South Lebanon. Hezbollah must be disarmed and terminated as a terrorist organisation. This was reaffirmed by the UN when the Security Council adopted Resolution 1701. The movement, like others, must find itself in acting as one among several political parties and in adhering to the rules of democracy. The UN peacekeeping forces are not set up to carry out this disarmament, but they are important to prevent new weapons supplies to Hezbollah. Disarmament is now becoming the demanding task of the authorities and defence of Lebanon. If they are to succeed, Syria must be moved to participate, and Syria must accept a UN control to prevent the introduction of weapons across the Lebanon border against Syria. As far as I understand, this important assumption is not yet confirmed. It would be interesting if the Foreign Minister could comment on this particular point, because in so many ways it is essential for this to be a successful operation. Norway will contribute four missile torpedo boats and 120 personnel. They can help prevent weapons from being smuggled into the seaway. However, this military contribution to the UN peacekeeping forces will only be meaningful if it comes to an end that arms supplies are smuggled across the Syrian border. If the United Nations forces succeed in their mission, it will contribute not only to peace across borders but also to the internal progress of the fragile and important nation-building project that Lebanon is now in, after a tragic civil war and after Syria has finally withdrawn its forces. We have noticed that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence have today assured the Storting that the mandate of the United Nations force is good enough, that the rules of engagement, the command structure and the composition of contributions make the strength robust enough to carry out the tasks and ensure its own security. Of course, the security of Norwegian soldiers is also a prerequisite for the Christian People's Party, and we have noticed the clear words that have come from the government's representatives here in Stortingen today in this way. But, as I said at the outset, military contributions are not enough. We need contact and dialogue between peoples and nations, based on mutual respect. We need negotiations between Heads of State, based on mutual recognition. We need assistance and trade, based on a mutual desire for economic development, and a humanitarian attitude in which people are treated equally, regardless of their nationality. That is why the Christian People's Party is opposed to proposals for boycott by Israel. That is why we support Norwegian aid for reconstruction in southern Lebanon, but we believe that there must also be aid for reconstruction in Israel. We find it incomprehensible that what was legitimate after the 1991 Gulf War, namely to support reconstruction projects inside Israel, where the destruction was far less than the destruction is today, is no longer legitimate for a workers' party government. We should show solidarity with suffering people in both of these countries. That is how we strengthen our general position that mutual respect and recognition must be achieved if peace is to be ensured in the long term. The people of the Middle East deserve peace and reconciliation, economic development and protection of the human rights of all peoples. Both Lebanese, Israeli and Palestinians have suffered too much. The UN's new peacekeeping force can help give the Middle East people a new hope and a better future. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, this force should have Norway's clear and strong support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e506	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for a thorough presentation here today. There is reason to express optimism when the ceasefire in Lebanon is now in place through UN Resolution 1701. However, we must note that the truce is fragile, and it is therefore important that the international community, and not least the parties themselves, help to bring peace to the area. At an early stage, from this summer onwards, the government indicated that Norway is in favour of providing an international strength in the area, and has also signalled possible Norwegian contributions. This is in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, which places particular emphasis on strengthening the role of the United Nations in the world society, and on increasing our participation in UN-led operations. In this process, until today's orientation in the Grand Duchy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence have provided good information in a very complicated case. Some have asked questions about Norway having the capacity to participate in a UN operation in Lebanon in view of our long-term involvement in Afghanistan and plans for further participation in Darfur. I believe that Norway is contributing a maritime contribution to the UN operation in Lebanon with four Hauk-class missile torpedo boats and a crew of about 100 will not conflict with Norway’s commitments in Afghanistan or with any strength contribution in Darfur. During the last few weeks and today we have also been prepared, among other things. the concept of the operation itself, the exposure rules and the contributions of other countries. In my view, the assumptions, even if they remain, are in place to enable Norway to contribute strengths. As I have understood it, the maritime force under the concept shall monitor Lebanese territorial waters, control and, if necessary, ship in order to prevent illegal weapons from being transported by sea to Lebanon. To achieve this, it is proposed to establish three control points outside Lebanese territorial waters for vessels intending to call on Lebanon. It is intended at an early stage to reveal whether it is a ship which opposes voluntary inspection. The territorial waters shall be checked according to the concept in such a way that Israel is not given any incentive to enter itself. This means that the strength must effectively prevent any armed grouping from operating in the area. Exposure rules are important in such a situation, where there are several parties to deal with. It is important that no rules prevent the maritime power from using power to defend itself. The rules of use of power will provide the strength with sufficient credibility to carry out the task of controlling ship traffic into the coast of Lebanon and preventing the illegal transport of weapons or other military material. The rules of exposure allow the strength to use a minimum of power against the person who may seek to prevent the strength from discharging his duties, and at the same time give the strength the power to use the necessary and proportionate power to stop, redirect, raise, table, inspect or search suspected civil ships which do not voluntarily comply with the instructions of the force. The Defence Manager has underlined that the crews are fully qualified to carry out the type of operations referred to here. Furthermore, experienced personnel, officers and specialists will be employed in senior management and critical functions. Vessels and crew are pre-designed and certified for NATO operations. I therefore trust that our forces are well qualified to solve the mission. It is important that the security of your own soldiers is always a high priority. Norway shall be a clear peace nation. In line with our objectives in the Soria Moria Declaration, the government will strengthen Norway's contribution to the prevention, dampening and resolution of conflicts. The Soria Moria Declaration states that participation in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Charter and have a clear UN mandate. The UN is the only international body that can legitimize the use of power. There shall be a high threshold for the use of military power. Norway shall not engage in preventive attacks not authorised by the United Nations. Through our commitment, we contribute to peace and demonstrate solidarity with the international community, while ensuring our own security. Norway has long traditions to provide forces when requested by the United Nations. Norway is politically highprofile in the Middle East, and the UN is one of the pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. It is therefore natural that Norway should provide forces when the United Nations so requests, just in the Middle East. Our decision to participate in the UN Force in Lebanon is a good example of the implementation of the Soria Moria Declaration in practice. It will also provide a good basis for the diplomatic field work that will be necessary to achieve lasting peace in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e546	The left will praise the Government for consulting closely with the Stortinget on the deployment of Norwegian UN soldiers in South Lebanon. It is of great importance that there is a broad political consensus on such contributions, not only for the sake of this specific operation, but also for the sake of future operations. The left wants a significant Norwegian participation in UN operations, which we regard as an important arena for our foreign policy. A clear UN mandate is a general rule in international operations. Furthermore, it is desirable that they be led by the UN, which has the best competence to carry out integrated operations. By that I mean operations involving military as well as humanitarian and developmental elements. The left is particularly concerned with the humanitarian aspect and wants to give priority to operations where humanitarian needs are greatest. If NATO is to carry out operations outside NATO territory, a UN mandate must be in place. Military intervention without UN mandate will only be able to support in extreme cases, such as preventing genocide. Demand for UN operations is expected to increase in the future. In view of this, the Left believes that on the Norwegian side we should assess whether we should prioritise the expansion of our capacity to participate with crews and materials. The Government’s Defence Policy Selection, appointed in August, should take a closer look at this, including whether increased participation in UN operations may be at the expense of other priority defence tasks. Darfur is a new possible area of input for the UN where a Norwegian contribution can become relevant. Since the political and humanitarian situation in the area is very precarious, a UN effort can be very demanding – and dangerous. This underlines the seriousness of sending Norwegian UN soldiers into conflict areas in remote countries. It is the responsibility of the Government to assess requests from the United Nations, NATO or the OSCE for strength support, in terms of the objectives of the operation, what Norwegian soldiers can contribute to achieving the objectives, and – not least – the dangers to which we expose our teams. Our competence has been primarily to meet the local population at a human level, build trust — and contribute to humanitarian efforts and reconstruction. However, participating in sharp missions where we expose our soldiers to more danger is a problem we are likely to have more to deal with. In the case of the Norwegian intervention in South Lebanon, the Left is behind the Government's arrangement, i.e. four MTBs and 100 UN personnel. A clear UN mandate through UN Resolution 1701 gives the operation a safe grounding of international law, including with regard to exposure rules and operational concepts. The left would have preferred the UN force to be a piece of a broad political process with a view to lasting peace in the region. As this does not seem to be the case, we hope that the strength can help prepare the basis for such a development. We encourage the Government to use every opportunity to contribute to this. The left is concerned with the training of our United Nations soldiers to be deployed. Although the time is now short for those who are going to South Lebanon, they should be given a thorough introduction to all aspects of international law related to the service. This applies in particular to dealing with refugees and local people, and the rights of those affected in the field of mandate. The left is also occupied by the soldiers' woes and well. Everyone who is going out should be prepared for difficult experiences that can meet them. Furthermore, they should be made aware of the risks to which they are exposed, particularly with regard to the vulnerable teams. The left goes in order for each soldier to be followed up better than before after the end of the service. Psychiatric post-effects of military foreign service were only widely known after 2000, although a large study was carried out in 1993 that reported ‘stress reactions, such as sweating, sleep difficulties, nightmares, guilt and re-experiences of service incidents’. The study also showed that the number of suicides and other violent deaths was higher than expected. Anxiety disorder post-traumatic stress disorder has also become more evident. The left therefore goes in so that all returnees get an offer of conversations with a psychologist. They can process their experiences here and identify the need for any further follow-up. Sending Norwegian soldiers abroad for action in an international force is a very serious decision to make, both for Norway and for individuals affected by this decision. The left is concerned that the soldiers sent out have full support in the Norwegian people, which should be clearly expressed here in the Stortinget. Furthermore, our soldiers should be able to perform all the tasks assigned to them, in the best possible way and within the current mandate. This includes, inter alia: that if they are going to end up in sharp situations, they should have a sufficiently liberal mandate and sufficient means of defending themselves. This has not always been so clearly expressed by all representatives in connection with previous decisions to send Norwegian UN soldiers to international service. For the left, however, when we send soldiers for service abroad, we set up 100 pst. for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e576	Resolution 1701, which is the basis for our participation, is an important document for the region, it is an important decision by the United Nations, and not least it was important, at the time it came, to stop the acute suffering of the civilian population both in Lebanon and in Israel. A little bit more when our forces are going to be sent, and the question related to whether they are being sent. We believe that in the last few days the lack of clarification and still 'unclearness' – as the Minister of Defence said it – about the invitation from Lebanon is beginning to become strange. To the extent that the Foreign Minister or the Minister of Defence could shed some more light on it, it would have been interesting. The real political issue is whether problems have arisen politically, not least in Lebanon, related to it initially to the warm embrace of Resolution 1701. Both Syria and Iran are said to have given assurances that they will not stand in the way of implementation of the resolution. That should be reassuring. Nevertheless, it remains to be seen that prominent people in both countries do not necessarily see this resolution as a good instrument. That should worry. It should also worry us, which is going in. Of course, I am clear that Norway will not engage unless there is a clear invitation, but if this goes out, it will not benefit the political situation, either in Lebanon or in the region. I intend to spend some time talking about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also talking about, that the Middle East conflict has long historical lines. As he said, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is at the centre of the conflicts you see in the region, and it must find its solution. Several have indicated that it must find its solution before we can start talking about a lasting peace. I don't disagree. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a lack of a dimension in such an analysis, and that is the hostile image that has been established in the population – preferably on both sides, on all sides, in all, but which is perhaps more prominent in the undemocratic states, in the unfree countries, than in the more democratic and open. This enemy image is not just between Muslims and Jews, which are specific, perhaps, in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It also goes between Muslims, it goes against Christians, it goes against the Western world. It's unfortunately a picture where hatred and intolerance characterize much of the everyday life we see in the population. I can highlight the discrimination experienced by the Shia Muslims in Saudi Arabia, a cruel discrimination – in the labour market, in educational institutions and in the law – and not least the terror that is taking place between Sunni Muslim and Shia Muslim groups in Iraq. There is no backsliding hatred between Israelis and Palestinians, or between Jews and Muslims that we are also being signaled. So there are more basic issues that also have to be addressed. I want to go back to what we dealt with before the summer vacation, a happy recording that the Left made on contributing to dialogue, to conversations and to broader work in the Middle East to address these problems. I am afraid that when we talk about the situation – whether it's the relationship of Hezbollah to Israel, it's the relationship of Lebanon to Israel, or what the relationship should be – we become so politically correct that we don't have the ability to address these issues, that we don't call them what they really are. And when a group stands for hatred, when a group stands for total extinction by the other party, it has to be charged every time, every time. And when we know that there's one of the images that characterizes not only Hezbollah, not just parts of Hamas and not just Iran, but that it's far inside much of the region, we have a problem that might seem insurmountable, but at least that's something we have to deal with, and that also requires the attention of the Norwegian Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e587	It is, of course, conventional wisdom that when the Stortinget is called up early in September, it is because there is a dramatic and important reason why it should be called up. After listening to this debate, we must well note that this debate has just turned a stake in such an opinion. As far as I've heard, it's not said or suggested anything that has not been well discussed in the public debate we've had on this topic in the last few months. I am aware that there are many in the Storing who believe that an open debate in the Storing is more important than the consultations that take place in the bodies of the Storing, but after looking beyond the hall, I also find that a number of the most enthusiastic followers of that position have not had enough attention to cover the entire debate. What the Presidency should, of course, be discussing is that in September more use can be made of for plenary sessions. However, we can well see that the need, in the sense that it should affect the decision, has not been the most central issue in this debate. I should therefore not say too much, except for a few main points in the matter itself. However, I would like to say that in many ways I think that some of the most interesting reflections were the foreign minister dealing with the Palestine-Israel conflict. One of many tragedies is that at a critical time this with Lebanon overshadowed the necessary international attention to what was going on in Palestine and Israel. I think it is very important to get public attention and international attention as quickly as possible back to this conflict, because it obviously needs a much greater attention. The situation is, as far as I can judge, very dramatic. I would like to say that I do not share Siv Jensen's critical attitude towards handling this matter. I do not think that is a basis for criticising the Government for participating in the public debate on what Norway can do. And as far as I can see, all the necessary formal reservations have been made, so that there is no reason not to participate openly in the debate, rather on the contrary. I think it is very important that when there is a debate on the international contribution of the international community, it should be lacking that the Government does not clarify what Norway might be able to do, and the other parties also participate in the debate on the substance of such issues. It's been pretty much done, and I think that's what I've been doing. As for the main points of the debate, I just want to repeat the following: I think it is important that we in Norway recognise that we cannot be anywhere even if the UN calls. We have never been anywhere. There have to be some special assumptions, and not least that we know that we can make contributions. That is why it has been clear to me all along that it is not possible to contribute on the ground in Lebanon. I want to add one thing to that position, because the most important thing is, of course, that we should reserve capacity for Afghanistan. But when we see how it evolves in Darfur, where there are still problems to get the Sudanese government to accept a UN force, it becomes a question of how long to reserve forces for Sudan – not because it is wrong, but simply because it commits us not to do anything. At some point – possibly not now – we have to think about it. I note that the exposure rule after the government's assessment is now in order, and that's an assessment I don't have any grounds to disagree with. On the other hand, I was a little surprised to hear the Minister of Defence say that everything in relation to the Lebanese government is not yet clear. The question is what is involved. It is clear to me that UNIFIL must have the necessary extensive powers from the Lebanese government to ensure that one can be 100 percent effective in cutting off arms shipments into the area. If it's at the point it's hanging up, then there's a piece left before we can say that this case is in order. And then a closing remark. Some have spoken about the disarmament of Hezbollah, which is a clear UN requirement we naturally support. I agree that it must be a political process. But there must be a political process with sufficient pressure behind it, so that the political debate does not become an excuse, but an opportunity to carry it out. Now two years have passed without anything happening to disarmament, and there is some of Lebanon's tragedy in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e606	It is easy to be frustrated and blamed and discouraged over all the setbacks in the Middle East peace process. Nevertheless, there is good reason for optimism that the ceasefire in Lebanon is now in place through UN Resolution 1701. The truce, however, is fragile. It is therefore important that international society, and not least the parties themselves, help to bring peace to the area. I am therefore pleased that the government has said from this summer onwards that Norway is positive about putting an international force in place in the area, and early on gave signals about possible Norwegian contributions. This is fully in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, which places particular emphasis on strengthening the role of the United Nations in the world society, and on increasing our participation in UN-led operations. Norwegian participation in the UN operation in Lebanon is in line with this. Through our commitment, we contribute to peace and demonstrate solidarity with the international community, while safeguarding our own security. Several have asked whether Norway has the capacity to participate in a UN operation in Lebanon, in addition to our long-term involvement in Afghanistan and possible participation in Darfur. The Labour Party believes that as a rich country, we have a duty to support the UN and the Security Council decision on a significant strengthening of the UNIFIL force in South Lebanon and the deployment of Lebanese forces in the region. This helps to underline the territorial sovereignty of Lebanon, which will be important for a lasting peace settlement. The Labour Party believes that Norway’s contribution to the UN operation in Lebanon, with four Hauk class missile torpedo boats and a crew of about 100 persons, will not conflict with Norway’s commitments in Afghanistan or with any strength contribution in Darfur. Over the past few weeks, we have also been given a clear mandate and the very concept of the operation that provides robust and clear rules for the use of power and self-defence, especially for the maritime sector. Therefore, in the view of the Labour Party, these assumptions are in place in order for Norway to be able to agree to send forces, even if something remains. In terms of our strength contribution, it has, among other things, in the media were asked about the safety and maturity of our soldiers and whether our MTBs are modern, good and robust enough for such a mission. To date, it must be said that the Hauk class has recently been upgraded for a billion Norwegian kronor, and is now known as Super-Hauk. The boats are therefore modern, and there should be no doubt about their robustness to carry out the mission. So to the debate on the safety of the Norwegian soldiers on board the ships. Several have pointed out that young soldiers who are under protection should not be sent to such a mission. To this end, the level of training and exercise in the MTB weapon is at a very high level. Crews are of interest and have participated more or less continuously in exercises in Norwegian waters and with allies in the last 12 months. I believe the most important thing is that it is a team we are now sending to Lebanon. I would argue that the armed forces sent to Lebanon are among the most educated and trained we have in the Norwegian maritime defence today. It's also important to point out that for those who per. present for initial service, whether or not they will participate on a voluntary basis. Similarly, the status shall be changed from the excretory compulsory to the contract work for the period in which they are out. I assume that the defense carefully assesses the fitness and suitability of the individual. There must be no doubt that the security of our soldiers must be a very high priority in all assessments of participation in international operations. It is therefore important that we, as magnification, support our soldiers and contribute the necessary resources to the UN mission. The fact that this task is now carried out by additional appropriations must be a matter of course. The war in Lebanon was no one who could predict as late as in spring when the revised national budget was being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e623	I found it interesting that today we have seen the contours of a new anti-war party being shaped here in the hall. Of course, I am thinking about the Progress Party and the proposals they have made today. What they do is put forward proposals for limiting war, and there is no doubt that it may be necessary. I find it a little strange that they choose to present it in the context of a peacekeeping operation. But we know what happened in the last days of the war, when Israel used class weapons – not as class weapons, but actually to mine parts of South Lebanon. When a class weapon is used with 40 pst. In practice, the rate of blind-gathering becomes a mine. But I thought we should take these proposals seriously from the Progress Party, because they are involved in limiting war. There are rules for war, and humanizing and civilizing warfare is something everyone should take inwards as something positive. That's why I look forward to having several good debates of this kind in the future. If we look at what's obviously going on there, that the solar data should be guaranteed good training, have important assignments out there, and also get good debriefing when they come home, I'm very happy with what the Minister of Defense has said today. She has been as clear as any Minister of Defense has ever been, this takes a serious step. I also see the signal from the head of defense that we are serious about this. We know there's a court case going on in Trondheim these days that shows the consequences of war. It also shows that we need to take these after-effects and after-effects seriously. I feel confident that this will be seen in the high seat. But as I said, it's a peacekeeping operation, and not a sharp mission that we're out on otherwise. Now it's like the United Nations has stopped this war. The UN is the largest international operator in terms of peace-building and peace-keeping. The United Nations is We know that we basically got the acids out of Lebanon last year. We know that there is also progress in political work. And not even the UN believes that this operation will be a military success, precisely because there are no military solutions to the Middle East conflict. It is not the United Nations to succeed, it is not Hamas to succeed, it is not Israel to succeed, but it is the Lebanese government to succeed – and most successful in regaining authority in South Lebanon. The fact that Hezbollah is part of the Lebanese government, I think it's a good guarantee that it's possible to negotiate for good solutions. Then we also know that of those who live in southern Lebanon, there are many Palestinians, and of course Palestinian refugees, whether they live in refugee camps or otherwise in civil society. In all negotiations, all congresses, and all discussions on solutions to the Middle East conflict, that refugee question cannot escape. We know that there is an eternal problem that must come to one or another solution. I feel confident that the Foreign Minister will bring it, and that it is also a priority. Whether they should be entitled to return, whether they should be entitled to financial compensation, or what they should be entitled to, I don't know, but we must always bear in mind that this is also a good part of the basis for the conflict in Southern Lebanon. So a little bit back to that with the security of the solar data. What makes people sick? Well, of course, they've experienced things that no one should experience, but as we know, they can experience in war-like situations. We also know that this will be even worse if the assignment is not perceived as important by those who participate and do the job for us at Stortinget – do the military job. We also know that a good measure of how well a civilian will receive. We had a terrible event in our Maymaneh, where our soldiers, because of an event on the other side of the earth, were quite innocent actually attacked, not by an army, but by a half-military mob, we must be able to call it. So this only shows that the political legitimacy of each international mission must be good, and, of course, training and follow-up must subsequently be even better than it has been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e640	As the Højbrätten has already explained, the Christian People's Party supports the Government's decision. Important prerequisites for the Christian People's Party's support were that robust engagement rules are in place, that the operational plans are prepared – there is still something, according to what the Minister of Defence has said, and that she might say something more about in the summary, but we assume that of course we will get in place – and finally that the command structure is solid. The Christian People's Party trusts the Government's assessment that the UNIFIL force is thereby guaranteed the ability to resolve the mandates and ensure its own security in a militarily and legally sound manner. We assume that what the Minister for Defence has underlined today is truly a goal – that the equipment works as intended, that the crews are well trained, that security is ensured, and not least that the follow-up device is robust enough both outdoors and at home. The crucial thing for the Christian People's Party, however, is that we perceive the objectives of the operation as very important, and we think the means we can use are appropriate to achieve this goal. The overall objective is to end innocent people in the Middle East paying with their lives, and to create the necessary stability in the region as a prerequisite for peaceful coexistence. A truce is in place. It is, however, fragile. It is therefore important that the international community, and not least the parties themselves, contribute to calming the area. But the international community must be involved in creating security and stability, so that the fragile truce does not break. The alternative is war and conflict with incalculable consequences. Further conflict will create greater distrust, enhance polarization and consolidate the hatred between neighbors who need to learn to live together. War strengthens the position of those who consider terror the only effective weapon. It creates ground for more violence, insecurity and extremism all over the Middle East. The alternative to stability is the strengthening of the extreme groups in Lebanon, while the moderate forces are marginalised. The long-term effect will be to undermine any attempt at democratisation in the region. That's why it's so important that this mission succeeds. The Norwegian MTBs are Norway’s contribution to supporting UN Resolution 1701 and trying to prevent further war and the sacrifice of even more human lives. The Norwegian contribution is not large, but it constitutes a small piece in a larger picture, as the Minister of Defence explained, and it is requested by the United Nations. Moreover, the military contribution is not alone, but it is complemented by other assistance from the Norwegian side, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed. The very last and most decisive question for us in this debate is whether we believe that the objective justifies the risk posed by our contribution. Are we likely to recover from the risk we're taking? It's a risk. No matter how much we stress that the safety of our soldiers must be as good as possible, there is a risk. We must say clearly from the fact that the responsibility for taking that challenge rests on government and enlargement. A peaceful solution to the Middle East conflict cannot be found by military means. Only a political process, talks and negotiations can create a lasting and complete peace. A good solution must be found around the negotiating table. If a Norwegian military contribution can help to ensure peace and stability in the area, we are committed to making the necessary preconditions for progress towards peace and stability in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e664	Siv Jensen and Morten Höglund have, through the debate today, clearly expressed the position of the Progress Party in this matter, so I do not really need to elaborate on that. What we're very concerned about, and it's of course commented and noticed by everyone, is what kind of soldiers we're going to send out in these sharp missions. Once again, we're going to send soldiers into complicated and very dangerous foreign missions. We've also said and meant that, and bound ourselves to it, and in many cases it's absolutely right. But here's what kind of soldiers we send. That's where the big difference is, I think. The difference is that this time we're sending out protective soldiers who are in the middle of the compulsory period. Here it's important to separate from other places where we send soldiers, where we send professional soldiers. Some of these soldiers even have only four to five months of protection, i.e. young people who are barely finished with high school and without any experience in life, young people who have never earned any particular money and who are tempted by a good salary, young people who view this as a fairy tale — yes, some people have even expressed that they look forward to a trip southward. That tells me a lot. I don't blame them for this. But someone has to take responsibility, and stop them. I am told repeatedly that the Norwegian defence is based on a duty of protection, and that is right, yes. But that's not the same thing as sending almost schooling into sharp and deadly missions. This doesn't want the Progress Party, and it's upsetting us. If Norwegian soldiers are to enter this type of foreign assignment, the Progress Party believes that the soldiers must have undergone at least 12 months of protection plus special training. I have previously asked the Council of State to find the position, more adult personnel with competence for the mission we are now going to carry out, personnel who have already served the duty of protection and who have good competence in addition to it. There is, if the will is present. On several occasions, the Council of State has pointed out that the security forces are not to participate in sharp tasks such as boarding, but are to serve as radar personnel, cooks, etc. I have to say that this is a strange reasoning and a strange representation – because it snaps, it smacks. It doesn't help if you're in a gun or a look at the radar. Finally, I have to say that the government, in my view, takes on a very, very great responsibility in this matter. Earlier this summer I have heard representatives in this Chamber from the government parties used terms such as 'unripe soldiers' and even suggested that we should not have soldiers who are under 21 years old. I have not heard anything about this after it was decided that we should send soldiers, and at least not in this room today. I must say, I am amazed, but it may not be so strange anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e679	I am pleased with the broad support given by the Government today in the Storting for its management of the Middle East conflict in general – and Lebanon in particular – and also for the fact that the Storing is behind the Government's decision to contribute to the new, robust stabilisation force under UN command in South Lebanon. Norway has, I think, been sharper than any other Western country in its criticism of Israel's military actions. At the same time, the Government has been quite clear in its condemnation of Hezbollah's attack on an Israeli patrol on the Israeli side of the border. Norway has dialogue with all parties, which is also a prerequisite for the work we are going to do as head of the donor country group. We were all upset by the tragic acts of the summer war. Many civil lives were lost on both sides. Many people’s livelihoods were shattered. Buildings, bridges, infrastructure were leveled with the earth. Parts of Beirut and large parts of Southern Lebanon are crushed. Once again, the people of Lebanon have had to bleed in a war scene for the Middle East conflicts. Israel’s destruction in Lebanon was far beyond all proportions. The destruction both in Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories requires action on the part of the international community, and reconstruction must take place quickly. Israel, too, in my view, must bear part of the financial responsibility. Lebanon must be quickly brought to its feet – economically, politically and socially. A stable Lebanon can help stabilise the whole region. Strengthening the Lebanese army and the other security sectors is also important. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken the initiative to invite Lebanon into NATO's Mediterranean dialogue. At the same time, it is important that work continues to implement Security Council Resolution 1559, including: Disarmament of Hezbollah is central. During the Lebanon crisis, there was an early debate on more robust international forces in the south following a possible ceasefire. At home, there was disagreement both about the appropriateness of new stabilisation forces and whether Norway should contribute. Today, there is a broad consensus that we should also put capacities at the disposal of a robust UN force. In addition to the political and humanitarian work of the Government, contributions to the UN operation are an important act of solidarity. Although our capacities are limited, the Norwegian strength contribution is not only symbolic – absolutely not. The government has found a niche capacity, where we have special advantage, a maritime contribution which, as far as I understand, will be coordinated in a German-Nordic framework. This contribution will not affect our ability to participate either in Darfur or in the ongoing NATO action in Afghanistan. I share the Minister of Defence's opinion that Chapter 7 would have been preferable. But the strength has, after all, been given a much more robust mandate than before. We have to deal with Security Council Resolution 1701. The world isn't always ideal, but that's this resolution we have, and that's what we're going to use. And -- let's enjoy the fact that the United Nations has actually helped stop a war, as Bjørn Jacobsen also underlined. The UN once again shows that they can when things are acute. We're going to back up the work that goes on. At the same time, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must return to the negotiating table. The objective must be a two-state solution, an Israeli and a Palestinian state. Norway has been asked by the Palestinian President to initiate a series of political and diplomatic measures. As soon as possible, contacts need to be established between the parties – and of course, assistance needs to continue next year. It is important that we show that it is not just military support we provide, but that we provide political support, that we provide humanitarian support, that we provide support for infrastructure construction, and that we contribute with stabilisation forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e696	This summer we have witnessed the greatest crisis in the Middle East in many decades. This has been a crisis, and hopefully it has also been an awakening for the rest of the world. Conflicts in the Middle East contain a lot of explosive power, but when they connect, the image becomes scary and chaotic. The catalyst for all these conflicts is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The long-standing conflict between Israel and Lebanon flared up again on July 12. However, it is unlikely that what could have contributed to a moment of this escalation was Israel’s “Operation Summer Rain”, a massive bombing of the Gaza Strip in response to the attack on Israel’s border post and the kidnapping of one of their soldiers. This rapid escalation and spread of the conflict is one of the main reasons why I have been concerned about the situation this summer. I was myself and took a course on the West Bank for friends in the AUF's sister organisation when this «summer bill» started. One of the actions that was then carried out was the arrest of twenty legally elected parliamentarians. This unacceptable action informed us by the Norwegian authorities that it was no longer safe for us to stay in Ramallah. And it was with very mixed emotions that we had to tell the people we had been with for one week, that it was no longer safe for us, and therefore we had to leave them – a very special experience. So I can't even begin to imagine how those who had to leave family and friends in the bombing system over Lebanon had to feel it, or the frustration, horror and despair that the civilian population must have felt when the civilian areas were exposed to such a massive and ruthless bombing. But there is also no reason to underestimate the suffering that the civilian population in Israel has suffered. But I am very pleased with the foreign minister's clear statements that the Israeli destructions in Lebanon and Gaza are out of proportion to the acts claimed to have triggered these retaliatory attacks. It is with relief that I record that the situation in Lebanon now looks brighter. I believe that what has made this possible and that has made it possible for the UN to succeed in its diplomacy is that Norway and others have been clear in their condemnation of the conflict and expressed early on that we could contribute to a United Nations operation. I am therefore strongly responding to the fact that someone here today criticises the Government too early to have supported the initiatives of the UN and thus contributed to the fragile, but at least stable situation that we have today. I am also pleased that we have a government that sees the value of being ready and acting quickly, a government that shows leadership. We are now welcomed by the Lebanese authorities. So it's important that we also make progress and express ourselves in such a way that we continue to be welcome. It has been said by some that what the UN is now doing is completing the work of the Israeli army. I don't belong to them, but I'm concerned that we behave in such a way that we don't make their words the truth. It is very positive that the Foreign Minister is now focusing on the opportunity we have to continue working on peace in the region. The most important thing we should have learned from the tragic events of the summer is that, as many have said here today, we can never solve this conflict and the challenges facing the region with violence. When Lebanon opens its eyes with hope for a new future, it is because they see the possibility of stability and security, and also because the Israeli blockade has been lifted. A little further south we have another people, the Palestinian, who are also insecure and who are under a blockade and occupation. Now, when we recognise how much trade and supplies mean for Lebanon, this should involve us further to work to ensure that the borders also open around Gaza, and that Israel gives back the money they owe to the Palestinian people, so that the reconstruction there can also start. If we do that, we have taken steps in the right direction to get to the establishment of an independent Palestinian state side by side with an Israeli state. If we do this, we've taken a step in the right direction for the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e713	I will first be allowed to say that I am pleased with the broad support that has been given in this debate. It's not my lot to comment on how many people have been sitting in the hall, but what I'd like to say is that from the government side we can now talk about not just having broad support for the commitment, but that all parties support Norway's contribution to UNIFIL. It is an important main message, and I think that is not least important for those women and men who are ready to travel. As regards the question of transparency, which it has been focused on, and in particular by the Progress Party, which raised critical questions about the follow-up to UN Resolution 1701, I would say, as the representative of Wickholm did, that it was our responsibility to actively follow up Resolution 1701 in line with the spirit of the UN Pact. There is then a moving process, where there are questions about finding forces to fit in a larger game. When there are so many speculations about this, which will also affect the people who are going to travel, we thought it was right that we gave precise information about the assessments that were made along the way. These were thoughts we put forward in New York, and from New York to Norway's media it's short distance. To avoid double standards, we stressed that we made precise comments, but of course always subject to the decision not being taken, and that it was to be thoroughly consulted with the Stortinget. Then Siv Jensen raised the question of the disarmament of Hezbollah. There is, of course, a key theme in this conflict. But Siv Jensen said that there was reason to strongly criticise the UN for the fact that Resolution 1559 had not been followed up and Hezbollah had not been disarmed. But it is important to say that UN Resolutions 1559 and 1701 point to the responsibility of the parties for disarmament. The UN is nothing but the sum of what Member States can do, nor is it the UNIFIL mission to disarm Hezbollah. It is up to the Lebanese authorities to do so, and the United Nations must be involved in facilitating this. That's why it's so important that we now get a large UN force in place. It is important then to stress, as several speakers have done, that there must be a political process for such disarmament. I think what they experienced during the war was that the military tool of bombing Hezbollah away, it's not possible. Then it was taken up from the figures of the Christian People's Party and the figures of the Advance Party that they were made incomprehensible that Norway would not support reconstruction in Israel. To that I would say that from the Norwegian side we have expressed full sympathy for the civilian population in Israel and what they have experienced. We have been present politically through visits to the region. But it is the case that Israel has not sent a request for any help for reconstruction. We follow the UN's advice to provide support where the needs are greatest. I cannot agree that there is a direct comparison between this war and what we experienced during the 1991 Gulf War, where Israel was struck by missiles without being a party to the conflict. I have to say that there must also be a question, as some speakers have said, whether it is not necessary to assess whether Israel has a responsibility for any of the damage done on the part of Lebanon as a result of civil infrastructure bombing, which is out of proportion to the threat they have been exposed to. Then it was expressed by the representative, Höglund, the importance of constantly taking away from statements that were invoking violence and hatred – I fully agree with that – and not least statements that state does not have the right to exist, or to be taken off the map. It's been the government's focus on doing on every occasion it's been expressed. It is also important that the entire political environment in Norway does so. The representatives of Solberg and Høybråten were concerned with Syria's role. That, of course, is a critical point. From the Norwegian side, we have stressed a main message that Syria must be involved in this follow-up. Implementing Resolution 1701 without the withdrawal of Syria, which has its entire border with Lebanon, is a very demanding task. It is therefore important now to note what the UN Secretary-General and the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs have achieved through their visits. We need a broader range of diplomatic initiatives to involve Syria, not to give in to Syria's demands by putting Syria in charge of the crimes it may have been responsible for – I think of the killing of former Prime Minister Hariri – but I think it is possible to commit without yielding. You have to bring Syria. Then maybe we'll see if we've seen the beginning of it through Kofi Annan's diplomacy. Finally, I would like to point out that there have been references from several speakers about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the importance of holding pressure in it, the importance of being present quickly if there is movement in that conflict. Today, we have been given new indications that an agreement between President Abbas and the Hamas administration can be imminent. If that happens, and if the circumstances are what we can hope for, it is important that the international community, including Norway, is early out there and recognizes such a government and stands up with the necessary level of support, which it deserves if it meets the expectations of the international community, not least if President Abbas, the elected president, supports it. [[The ringing signal indicating that the foreign minister would speak continued to call during the entire post.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e737	The Secretary of State might get the impression that the clocks were ringing for him, but it was a technical mistake. Now it's fixed up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e742	I will first be allowed to inform you that the Progress Party will convert proposals No. 2 and 3 for transmission proposals – that's what it's done. I have two questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister says that the question of humanitarian aid to Israel has not arisen because Israel has not requested such assistance. If Israel requests such assistance, will the Norwegian Government approve such a request? The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not comment on the long pull that has taken place in order to receive the formal invitation from the Lebanese Government, among other things. as a result of which Germany has postponed its decision. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think of this as just formal matters, or is there a real political problem within the Lebanese Government related to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e753	In this case with a request, one shall not do too much of it. It is not Norway's opinion that we should use assistance for Israel in this situation. We are largely following the UN appeals, the UN assessment of where there is a need for support, and I do not think it will change as a result of a request to that effect. But I would strongly like to express sympathy, political support for the reconstruction and sympathy of the civilian population in northern Israel, who have suffered the disproportionate and arbitrary rain of the Hezbollah rockets. As far as the Lebanese government's request is concerned, I think the Minister of Defence might come up with that, but I want to say that in the formulations that I have chosen and that the Minister of Defence has chosen, we have underlined that this is still a process in motion. We have to follow it from day to day, with the degree of flexibility a government must have in such a situation. If this goes in a very negative direction, we have to take the consequences of it, but we see that it's going in a positive direction. In the case of the German decision, each country must find its processes and procedures. Germany's political decision-making process in relation to participation in the Middle East is, for historical reasons, a complex affair, due to the many conditions in that country in which we must respect. We believe that we have made a fundamental decision to participate. We're ready to do that, and then we get to follow the evolution from day to day, almost, until our people are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e762	I think it is worth noting that the Foreign Minister changes his argument when he is pressured on his arguments. He rejected humanitarian aid for reconstruction in Israel by pointing out that there was no request for it from the Israeli Government. When the representative, Høglund, pointed it out, it was clear that the request had no significance for the foreign minister's position. But does it not matter to the foreign minister's position that the victims of the war with whom he sympathize have actually suffered? 12 000 buildings are destroyed on the Israeli side. 90 000 applications for damages have been submitted to the War Directorate in Israel. There has just been a report by the Ministry of the Environment in Israel on very major and serious environmental disasters on the Israeli side. Why is Norway dependent on a request from the United Nations to show humanitarian sensitivities in the pact with its best traditions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e769	I have not said that a request is crucial to what we are doing here. It was an additional information, which at least illustrated that Israel has not appealed to the international community, as far as I understand, for help. I'm stuck with the argument I've used. It is about proportionality – where are the needs greatest, who has the opportunity to go in and do something in relation to those needs? Israel has declared that they will rebuild northern Israel, the destructions that are there, and that they have capacity and resources for it. Our limited resources, which will always be limited in relation to the damage that has occurred, are now being deployed into the Palestinian territories and into the Lebanese territories. I would again like to stress that it is destruction that Israel is largely responsible for, and we believe that they have used instruments that are out of proportion to the threat they are facing. Nor is it about UN appeals, but the UN is an important tool for us to understand where the support is most needed, and at what time. It's also been useful in this context, where we follow the UN's appeals on where to put the help.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e778	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e782	For this operation, the UN has done a very good job of preparing for both the concept of operation, the rules of engagement and the composition of strength, and also the command conditions, by strengthening them on the maritime side to adapt them to this particular operation. I would like to say that Norway has contributed in this connection to the recording and dialogue with the United Nations in order to get these clarified and as good as possible. What I mentioned in my presentation was that there are still uncertainties about the Lebanese request, and I want to say what it is about. It's essentially two issues. One is the size of the area in which the United Nations Maritime Force is to operate, while the other is about the extent to which the Lebanese authorities are to have control of the performance of the maritime tasks. But this is a relationship between the Lebanese government and the UN. We expect that there will be a clarification of these conditions in a short time. This is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said, a process that is moving forward. On our side, it will still be essential that there are no unacceptable restrictions on the ability of this United Nations force and the maritime force to solve their tasks in a credible way. It has been focused from the Progress Party on the use of protective agents in this operation. I want to say again, although it has also been problematized, that our defence is based on the duty of protection and the duty of protection. The four MTBs have been on standby for operation ‘Active Endeavour’, which is a NATO operation in the Mediterranean Sea. They could be called to the Mediterranean during this period — they have been on standby since 1 July and prepared for an operation. On the MTBs, about half of them are in command and half are in need of protection. Protective persons are selected in a comprehensive way before being selected for their tasks. They're getting good training. They are also interest-bearing with the order, and the order has a very great responsibility. The younger ones who are now came in in April. The duration of this assignment is six months, and then we have to decide whether we can contribute more. I want to say a little bit more about these MTBs, because it has been problematized if the staff is well enough prepared. It has been spent a lot of time, and therefore it has also been so important, because this is an operation that should start quickly, that we could prepare for a possible operation. I also want to repeat that when it comes to the broadcast of this operation in the area, both doctors, anaesthetics nurses and pastors will take part in the operation. The attention to sensitivities is something that the government takes very seriously. Just because you previously recruited more or less through advertisements in the newspaper and did not have a sufficient mandate for the tasks to be performed, you have experienced a lot of sensitivities. That's exactly why combining is so important. It's important that there are mature departments leaving, much more than the individual skills. They appear in the total sections. There is also the possibility of rotation in this assignment. The marine defense has put emphasis on good contact with relatives, both through newsletters and through the fact that the soldiers who are out of town should be able to contact their relatives by telephone and by e-mail. If someone was to be sent home voluntarily during this time, there is also a device to take care of the individual. We also have our own follow-up when they're out. If there were special episodes, such as: the one in Meymaneh, you immediately send a stress test team and, as I said in my statement, you also send a follow-up. Erna Solberg said that sending Norwegian soldiers into international operations is one of the most serious decisions Norwegian authorities can take. I fully agree with that. Therefore, I would like to stress again that I am very pleased, as the Foreign Minister also said, that there is broad support in the Storting for this operation. Because I am absolutely convinced that the best support these young people can get is from politicians. We know that there is considerable support in Norway for Norway to participate in the operation in the Middle East. I think there is reason to stress that it is important that there is also good support from Stortingen for this operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e813	I understand that it has taken time for the mission to be finally clarified, but I must also say that I find it very worrying that there is still no clarity in relation to the Lebanese government. After all, resolution 1701 was worrying because it gave the United Nations little autonomy to the government when it came to ensuring that weapons did not enter the area. And we all know that the Lebanese government also has Hezbollah among its government partners. The goal the government has to govern, I think, is that UNIFIL has received a blank mandate from the Lebanese government to do its job. I would like to have confirmed from the Council that this is what the Government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e820	As I said in my statement, it is important that we can carry out the mission. The UN has done a very good job on the operating concept, on strength composition and on exposure rules, as well as on the command conditions of the operation itself. But in the Lebanese government's request, there are some uncertainties, and there are two issues. It concerns the level of movement of the maritime contribution and the level of control to be exercised by the Lebanese authorities. I myself was at a meeting in the United Nations on Friday, and this is a matter that we have made very clear to the United Nations that they must clarify with the Lebanese authorities. That's still the one reservation we have. In terms of the UN and their preparations, they are in isolation good, but the relationship between the Lebanese authorities and the UN needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e825	We have been informed through the media that there have been problems with the MTBs. I hope it's just passing by, and that they're okay now. I would like the Council of State to confirm that. Then she has explained to us, in a straightforward and transparent way, the rules of use of power in the event that Norwegian soldiers get into sharp situations. But I must say that I am very surprised that the Council of State is so clear and sure that Norwegian soldiers with four to five months' protection will be able to deal with such a situation. It's not me. So another question. When we are now going to send the farm approx. 100 soldiers, is it going to roll because some of these boats might have to go home, that some of the soldiers have to go home, and in case we're encouraged to set up beyond the six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e834	In the case of the MTBs, there was a test of those who showed some faults. They're now certified. They're fine. They're ready to sail off farms. They'll be sailing off farms this week, probably on Wednesday. They're cleared. In the case of rolling and if we're going to participate for longer than six months, this is the six-month assignment. In the case of another roll for the crew on board, there are four boats we have in this assignment. That's four MTBs. We have crews of six MTBs, and that crew may roll during the period if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e841	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e849	The size shall now vote on case No. 1 on today's map. Before the vote, the President will inform you that the representatives Sverre Myrli, Åsa Elvik, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Marianne Marthinsen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e874	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposals Nos. In the course of the debate, 2 and 3 have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-09-11.ana.ud82e906	The President will propose that the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on Lebanon and the Norwegian contribution of strength be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
