ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e49	The amendments to this proposal are entirely the result of the EU's adopted amendments to the Schengen Convention. The changes to the SIS, which is an abbreviation for the Schengen Information System, are part of the EU's joint action to prevent and combat acts of terrorism. Norway is now obliged by international law to implement these changes in Norwegian legislation. The cancellation has agreed to such an amendment in its meeting earlier today. Some of the proposals to be adopted by the Odelstinget today have extended access to the SIS for the prosecution authorities and the non-resident authorities. Today, only the police authorities have access to the entire system, and the alienation authorities have limited access. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal for such an extension of the law, and we point out that this will increase the effectiveness of international police cooperation, thus clarifying more criminal cases with international ramifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e62	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e78	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e85	There has long been a need for a set of rules that clarify what rights they have for the purchase of power, and when it concerns the event of power failure or voltage failure. The new laws in the Consumer Purchases Act will allow customers to withhold payment, demand a price reduction or claim compensation. I am pleased that the Committee is in agreement with the Working Party that the regulation of power contracts should be included in the Consumer Purchases Act, so that the rules on power agreements become more accessible and more familiar to consumers. At the same time, there is a legalisation of complaints subjects, to which all energy companies must somehow be linked. The existing subject of each law should still be an important forum to find solutions outside the courts. There is a reason to point out that you must not close the current too soon, but not too late. The fact that you shouldn't shut down the current too soon is because closing it is a very serious step. The consumer no longer has access to the necessary goods. With the new amendment, one specifies that closure cannot happen if there is a risk of life, health or significant damage to things. If there is a blast, you can't turn off the current, for the simple reason that the wiring will freeze, and that can lead to significant damage to things. With this decision, we take care of both the consumer and the owner of the house. The network should not wait for an unmanageable period of time to close the stream, as the user will then process a substantial remaining power and an unmanageable debt before the shutdown is triggered. We are aware that some online companies have actually waited several years before they have closed the stream. In one case in the municipality of Nesodden, the balance was NOK 83,000 – debt earned over three years. Some would argue that it's actually being speculated about shutting down the stream late, by your social office anyway paying the entire balance, because otherwise there will be no current. Whether or not to end speculation; such a policy. The network has a very effective debt collection tool to be able to cut off the flow, and they are also monopolists. That's why we're clarifying the interpretation in a comment here. As I said, the legislative proposal therefore takes care of the need not to close too soon, for example. by requiring substantial breach of contract and further warning procedures. On the other hand, the bill does not contain any rules that might prevent a website from waiting for an untimely period before it shuts down the stream. Should this become a problem in the future, the Government should consider legislative measures to counteract such practices. An option here may be that in such a case, the transmission system operator may not charge a shutdown fee or an opening fee. It will be an incentive for companies not to expect unreasonably long. The Committee would also like to make it clear that the network operators do not have a first right to cover the current balance. The companies have a commercial risk when they deliver on credit, in line with others who deliver their goods on credit, i.e. that current residues fall under the coverage law and are unprioritised residues. This way, the network operators cannot demand to pay the full balance until they start delivering the power again – possibly withdrawing the threat of closure. It shall be a significant failure to close, and when the amount has been paid, so that it is no longer a significant failure, a few shall be supplied. This will always be the case where the user is unable to set up separately. We have already said that notice of closure should come in good time. We could have applied the practice they have in Sweden, with automatic copies to the social offices at second notice and at closing notice. However, the Committee has chosen to make privacy matters more important, since very many reminders do not give rise to a lack of ability to pay, but are equally likely to be forgotten. What we have regulated is that, in the future, there should be a clear indication of all the closure notices each one can seek help, and that one can seek help from the social office if necessary. A node that is not included in the comments is the network operator’s right to charge the user for fixed network costs that are not directly linked to the user when the power is disconnected. This should be taken up again by a review of the wedge arrangement. When the Stortinget now decides that the regulation of power contracts should be included in the Consumer Purchases Act, we ensure that the consumer's rights in relation to the power market are legalised, and that everyone in the industry must comply with the same rules. They don't have to do that. These changes will result in a clarification and improvement of the user's legal position. When Stortinget last dealt with consumer purchasing laws, it was an important point for the Workers' Party to ensure better legal protection for consumers. This will be followed up by this bill. I am pleased that the Stortinget – with broad support from all parties – is now entering in order to provide the consumer with better legal protection in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e111	It is also a pleasure for the Progress Party that there is an overall committee that places the regulation of electricity contracts into the Consumer Purchases Act. There is a great need for legal regulation in this area, and it is also important to have the rights of the consumer legislated. One sheep then strengthened the consumer role. We state in the law today that electricity is generally a product, and the consumer knows that he can find his rights in the Consumer Purchases Act. It has been a cold winter, and in several newspapers one has been able to read about various examples of power closure. It is important to clarify the rules on closure. Power is essential and it is important to ensure consumers in this way that the cut-off limit becomes clearer. With the clarification we are making today, no closure shall take place if there is a risk of life, health or significant damage to property, or if the consumer has objections to the basis for closure. The network companies are also obliged to inform the consumer that they can seek help from the social office. There has also been a debate on non-delivery in the event of power failure – whether there is a lack of delivery, or whether there is a delay. A power agreement is an ongoing agreement on the supply of electricity, and the few of us know well, or are able to understand, the difference between whether it is a power cut or whether it is a delay. In this case, the party to the progress believes that ‘lack of delivery’ is at least a much better concept than ‘delay’. Finally, this legal regulation should not be an excuse for the network companies to close up the prices of the network rental. In the hearing opinions and in the Ministry’s assessments, there has been little concern about increased costs for the consumer in terms of increased network rental. The Consumer Council itself said during the consultation that increased consumer rights cost money. With the cold winters – not to forget the cold summers, which we also have in this country – and with a notified power crisis, the Progress Party believes that this legislative regulation must also be seen in the context of a good energy policy, which ensures increased power generation and a sustainable charging policy. It must be the role of the State to ensure that consumers have access to power at acceptable prices. In this case, we in the Progress Party will refer to our alternative state budget, where we have proposed a reduction in the electricity tax, and also to a Document No. 8-proposal proposing a reduction in the electricity charge in periods of high electricity prices. We have repeatedly proposed a review of the calculations of the network lease and an intensification of NVE legislation in this area. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have also proposed a significant increase in the Cohesion Fund. The Progress Party is very positive in this regulatory process. Consumers are given rights that they are entitled to, but we will nevertheless be able to express a concern about increased costs to the consumer. The state must take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e130	The case rapporteur and the representative of the Progress Party have said the most that is to be said, so it would be a short cut of me to ‘be long’ in this matter. It is gratifying that consumers are given increased protection when purchasing electricity, in the pact with the work undertaken by the previous government, which has been incorporated into the bill presented by the new government and which is being dealt with here today. The preparation of that kind of rights was a central goal, because the conditions that have been too many consumers, and what they have experienced and still experience, are something that might remind you of texas states. The supply of electricity is one of the main needs to be met, and the consequences if the current is shut down or there is a delay may be great, not least for older people and for young children’s parents. To what extent this implies today the end or continuation of efforts to strengthen the legal position of consumers, the rapporteur said little about it. After nearly six months in government offices, sadly, the majority government has largely used its majority to ensure that the majority of people have not become easier to be consumers. Neither competition policy, modernisation policy, transport policy, education policy nor industrial policy have an active policy to strengthen consumers, but rather an active policy to reverse most of the issues and an active rhetoric to reveal what is being done. But the rapporteur's contribution today was to the extent of a small candle in the dark tunnel. Therefore, I challenge her on behalf of the government parties to decide whether they will ensure that consumers' position in the power market will continue to be strengthened in the future, and not least how. Is there any strategy to ensure the efficiency of network activities? How will lower network rental be ensured? And not least, do you have any plans to ensure that companies that operate less efficiently have fewer possibilities to flip costs over to consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e144	I think the case rapporteur has given a very good presentation of the case, and I had not really had to take the floor. The reason why I still do that is the articles of the Progress Party. It made me reflect on what is described here as a need to reduce Norwegian electricity and power charges. I studied abroad myself, in Germany, and experienced how enormously different the approach is in different countries in terms of the turnover of electricity, and measures, not least, to reduce the prices of the individual, simply because electricity in many countries is very expensive. In fact, it is quite reasonable in Norway. What you see is a much stronger consumer adaptation: in other countries, the light is switched off in spaces that are not in use, it is not always on the rise, etc. What I'm registering is that here you can walk in the basements of the settlements and see that the light is on all the time, you can go to the ceiling and see that it lights up. This is not a very strong indisium that the Progress Party is right in its hypothesis that the fees in this area are too high. On the other hand, there is a clear indication that in Norway we consume electricity in a way that is very inappropriate and that in turn results in an increased need for power. This should have been followed up by actions aimed at consumers, usually organised by the State, to achieve energy savings in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e151	I think this matter is so important that I want to say something about it. I don't think it's got its deserved place in the media 'in the sun', because this case affects all of us people who are using electricity, and that is, in practice, almost all of us in this country. Power is and is going to be a necessity, and electricity is bought and sold as a commodity in a market. It is therefore nice that we now also treat this product in the same way as other goods, and get contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity under the Consumer Purchases Act. In my view, this matter is important. And why? Yes, it will ensure that we as consumers are given enhanced consumer protection by clarifying and strengthening the conditions for closure, that we as consumers can, on detailed terms, make a payment, demand a price reduction or demand compensation if the network company breaks electricity contracts. And the fact that we now also have a legal dispute resolution mechanism helps to strengthen the legal protection of consumers. In addition, I believe that this law poses some challenges. One of them is how far consumers can expect the transmission system companies to go in relation to securing their network. What is certain is that one comes to a point where costs of securing the network against all possible conditions become socio-economically rational. I believe that the gap between what we as consumers can expect from deliveries and how much the network company can protect itself from natural phenomena such as lightning and extreme weather will be the challenge. So a little bit to what was the concern of the Progress Party about the fact that network rentals can increase. On this basis, I would like to make some comments on the comment they have written with the Right, where they say that ‘increased requirements for efficient and secure network operation must be made’, while expecting this to contribute to lower network rental. It's going to be in my head the same as saying, I want to buy Mercedes, but I just want to pay for a charge. It's not entirely related. But all in all, I am satisfied, because we now ensure strong consumer protection on such an important necessity as electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e164	It was the representative Dahl who provoked me to take the floor, because the President and the other debaters have mapped out and explained what the proposal involves. However, it does not mean that the red-green government now, as well as having parked the issue of consumer policy and rights – rather the opposite. If you go back in the history of what is the basic law on the issue of consumer purchase – the Consumer Purchases Act – that we are now tangential to, it is precisely these parties that are now in government, who were the perpetrators when it came to making it the best possible for consumers. I was the author of the case in Stortinget, and remembering how the borderline was in relation to those questions. Fair enough – it was the previous government that left the basis for the change we are now in, but it should not be drawn from the conclusion that the red-green parties in the current government should be less interested in doing something in relation to consumers. We have several consumer policy challenges that will come from the Government. The question of housing has already been raised by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. The protection of tenants and tenants in relation to the issue of non-conformities is also one of a number of areas where we believe that this is important legislation to address. But I have to remind you that when it comes to the issue of coming to Stortinget with concrete legislative changes such as: will strengthen consumers, proposals must be drawn up. We're going to have consultation processes that will last three months. I welcome the impatience that prevails from the opposition to consumers, but at least you have to let the work go, so that you can present it in Stortinget. There is no reason, based on this treatment, to say that the Government wants to deprioritise consumers — rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e175	This is very good. What is now, hopefully, adopted today will significantly strengthen the situation of electricity customers. The complainant mentioned a terrible example from Akershus. Unfortunately, there are many similar examples, where the network companies wait so long that the electricity customer recovers from debt in the ten thousand krona class. This is wrong. The person in such a situation is, of course, pushed up in a corner and finally has no choice. Many municipalities have reported back from the social service that this is a major problem for many. With what is being done today, hopefully we can guarantee the consumer better protection than he's had in the past. I am also pleased with what the Minister of Justice says, that a continuous look at consumers' rights on this issue. I want to add one thing, which has nothing to do with today's amendment of the law. One reason for many power customers to build up large debts is today's legislation in the energy sector, where the individual consumer, when moving to a new location – or in any case – has to subscribe to electricity from a power supplier. In addition to the network bit, on which it is a monopoly, the consumer must order electricity from a power supply. If he does not, the network company is obliged to supply electricity to him. I think it's called surrender, or something like that. Then the transmission company takes a price per cent. kWh which is astronomically much higher than the market price of electricity. Up to 60-70 øre per. kWh takes the transmission system operators from those who are not aware of this legislation. Many of those who have failed to process electricity, and who finally feel that the Internet service provider is shutting down the power, also have this problem that they are sitting and paying a very high price per hour. kWh. In the further work on consumer issues in the energy sector, one should also look at that issue and at least ensure that network operators are obliged to inform electricity customers in a much better way than they are today. I'm sure there are hundreds, thousands of subscribers around who are not aware of this, and who pay too high a power price to the network provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e190	I note that one does not want to answer a single question either from the Right or from the Advance Party in relation to consumer rights, in addition to what has already been presented, and that one is reluctant to answer the three questions that we have asked about what is to happen in the future – after promoting one matter that is only a blue copy of what the previous government has said. To date, the Minister of Justice has given signals about the vast majority of things in his area, but the Government is not giving a single concrete signal as to how to further strengthen the position of consumers in the power market, how to streamline network operations, or how to prevent costs from being passed on to the consumer. It has taken six months to promote one case, which is a follow-up to the case of the former government. Then I think it would have been nice if the Council of State could be somewhat specific in terms of consumer rights in the future, and not just look back.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e199	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e215	The background to this bill is the desire and need for a clean-up of the Code of Obligations in order to have a more transparent, comprehensive and up-to-date legal framework in terms of abstinence obligations and per millle limits. A comprehensive committee supports the transfer of remaining mandatory provisions for rail operations and road transport to sectoral legislation, by updating the relevant abstinence provisions of the Road Traffic Act and the Railway Act respectively. Similar changes have been made in the past with regard to abstinence provisions for persons with services in sectors such as aviation, maritime transport and defence. When transferring the abstinence provisions for road transport to the road traffic station, we also achieve that the abstinence rules will in future apply to Svalbard and Jan Mayen. It should be reassuring when we know how the population and activity of Svalbard in general and in Longyearbyen in particular has evolved. As a consequence of this last transfer to sectoral legislation, the Law on Obligations can now be repealed in its entirety. This means simplification for those concerned, because there are fewer laws to deal with. The Committee unanimously endorsed the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act and the Railway Act etc. in the case of compulsory abstinence. The aim is to enhance road safety and to protect persons and goods against the risks posed by professional carriage in a drug-induced condition. The Road Traffic Act has strict criminal provisions on drugrelated driving in general and for professional drivers in particular. In other transport sectors, the obligation to provide services has been limited to persons responsible for the transport of passengers and goods by industry. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessment that there is a difference between the function of road-monitoring staff and railway safety personnel, where the traffic management centre has a direct role in regulating and managing traffic itself. An overall committee is associated with the proposed intensification of the per mille limit from 0,5 to 0,2 per mille and with the prohibition of subsequent alcoholic beverages, etc. for the driver or performer of other railway safety-related tasks. This also means that the per mille limit for railway staff is becoming more consistent with the corresponding legislation for other modes of transport. The legislative proposal means the continuation of the 8-hour limit of the day, i.e. the maintenance obligation applies during the service period and for a period of eight hours before the start of the service. This provision is common to professional road, air, rail and shipping carriers. Furthermore, the Committee does not comment on the proposed definition of duty time and considers it appropriate to include it in the legal text itself. In order to ensure more effective enforcement of the new legal provisions and to enhance the safety of the carriage of persons and goods by road, the Committee supports the proposals for an authorisation under the Railways Act to perform alcotests, breath tests, blood tests and clinical medical examinations, and a general basis for establishing a certification scheme for driver and other safety-related railway staff, as well as the rules on recall, etc. of certificates. The proposal to authorise the police to perform alco-tests, breath tests and blood tests, etc. in the context of the monitoring of the rules on the compulsory provision of railway services, the continuation and extension of the provisions of the Law on Obligations of Carriage. The Committee, acting unanimously on the proposal submitted, does not comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e234	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e242	Then Odelstinget will vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e387	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e397	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e583	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e593	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e770	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e780	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16-lower.ana.ud2220e791	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require the word under Section 37(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's been cancelled.
