ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e38	From the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, an application for maternity leave is made from 2 November until the end of the spring session of Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e56	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e59	On behalf of Jørund Rytman, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e64	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e78	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Svein Gülsheth, for the case-rapporteur, who is ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e89	The development of E18 on the Langåker-Bomstadt route is an important project to improve road safety and accessibility and reduce the environmental impact of this route. Construction will remove one of the E18 bottlenecks between Oslo and Kristiansand, one of the most important tribal road sections in our country. The project covers the construction of approx. 8 km of four-field road on the Langåker-Bommestad section of Sandefjord and Larvik municipalities in Vestfold. Annual daily traffic is currently around 21,000 vehicles. For the last ten years, 10 people have lost their lives in road accidents on this route. Eighteen people have been badly injured. In addition, today’s E18 is located so that it causes noise and pollution to the local population, and there are occasional capacity problems with slow and steady queues. The project we are now invited to adopt is part of a major and important community. The goal is the coherent four-field E18 through Westfold, with all the benefits it brings to society and to each and every one of us. When the distance between Kopstad at the exit to Horten and Gulli at the exit to Tønsberg is completed in 2007, the E18 has a related four-field standard between Eik in Buskerud and Tønsberg. When the Kleivene tunnel at Drammen is finished the following year, the E18 is four-fielded from Oslo to Tønsberg. There is considerable agreement between the State Road Administration and the County Municipality to give priority to the Langåker-Bommestad route by further expanding the E18 in Westfold, although for a period this will lead to an intermediate two-way route, namely the Gulli-Langåker route. I think local assessments are quite correct, especially in terms of road safety. The whole E18 through Vestfold has been a major accident, but the section Gulli-Langåker is somewhat more modern than the section Langåker-Bommestad and is a safer road, with two-plane crossings and without detours. Centres are now built for additional securing of the distance. I'm busy not getting an unnecessarily long toll period. At the same time, the general rule of a 15-year toll period has been seen to have room for action in the event of an increase in costs or failure of the traffic base. The tolling period of 15 years should therefore be maintained, but the majority will be open to reconsider if developments make this necessary. Langåker-Bomstadt shall be financed by tolls and shall subsequently enter as part of the E18 financing facility through Vestfold. This means that for the first time we get distance-dependent tolls in Norway, as we are often used to from many other countries. The difference is that in Norway we will use modern insemination technology that is entirely in front of the world. I have also noticed that the Ministry of Transport will come back to Stortinget with a collection of plans for the further development of E18 in Westfold, based on a local policy position. In line with the Committee's recommendation, Langåker-Bommestad will be ready for autumn 2009. Then Vestfold gets a new and significantly safer and more environmentally friendly highway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e113	First of all, I would like to say that the assistant case rapporteur made an excellent contribution, which clarified the need to bet on the road in Norway. But it is of course necessary to add that I find it sad that the assistant rapporteur and the rest of the Stortinget do not see that the state has the overall responsibility in relation to that effort. I will also be allowed to quote the first paragraph of Section 20 of the Road Act: «Member States shall charge the costs of planning, construction, repair, maintenance and operation of national roads, including the costs of own resources interventions. This expenditure is requested by the county council for county roads and the municipality for municipal purposes.’» I think it would have been right and fair that the large majority in this room had been honest and sincere to the Norwegian people and proposed to repeal Section 20 of the Road Code. It is almost indirect such – a claim from my side, perhaps – that the large majority in this room violates the Road Act § 20, especially with regard to the projects that we have to deal with here and in the next case. So here it has to be financed 100 pst. with tolls. It is not a single initiative of either state, county or municipality in this project. That is why this is a historic day. It's a historic day because this is the first project in which the majority of this room will completely waive responsibility in relation to Section 20 of the Road Act. I'm afraid that in the future we will have a number of similar things. I fully agree with the assistant rapporteur that this area is very important. It's had a high priority, and it should probably have been in place a long time ago. But because of the disclaimer on the part of political parties, we are in the situation we are doing now. The Progress Party has an alternative proposal. I use the opportunity to promote the proposal, which is in the vote. We know that we will meet with resistance, because we want state funding for this, and because we want to spend more money building roads. It soon begins to approach a pain limit for the Progress Party, as long as the irresponsible majority in this Chamber builds up tolls of this size. For the time being, the Progress Party has decided, at least, to remove this toll liability when we may have a chance to do so. I think it's a little simple when you show in such propositions that both county municipalities and others are guarantors. Yes, it's very easy to be a guarantor of both 1, 2 and 3 billion kroner, when in the next round you open up that it's the users who have to be the security. It's the users who have to bear the risk, because in this case, as in all other cases, it opens up that if you see that traffic figures don't keep track, you can increase the retention period or increase the rates. Then it is easy to be a guarantor. Therefore, it is sad, I think, that no more see alternative solutions in financing the road structure in Norway. Finally, I would like to mention: there are parties that have criticised the Advance Party for unprofessional use of oil money. But I register in the media today that the same parties want to use both 100 and 150 billion kroner to build rail – within the rule of action for which they have decided. There is a clear signal that road should be given priority and that railway should be given priority. Because then there is also room for action, and that does not give the same pressure in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e137	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e140	Finally, I must remind you once again that a large majority of the committee seems to be gathering around when it comes to a modern high-speed concept in Norway, having first and foremost a competitive face against air traffic. It is a forward-looking travel system that will compete completely in a number of destinations in Norway. I am convinced that when the Progress Party receives feedback from people in the country, they will also join this when it comes to that. But that is not what we are going to discuss today. I have to make another comment on the last speaker – it concerns the toll system and the county authorities’ willingness to stand behind and guarantee the financing of such projects. I think it deserves our approval and commendation in this Chamber that such a responsibility – a shared responsibility with the state and consumers – should be taken regionally to get this done, and not criticism from this pulpit. Because that's not what the last speaker said, that it's easy to guarantee, and that you don't risk. Of course, taking a guarantee decision on a financial liability is always associated with risks. It is also true in this case. This parcel is a very important continuation of the E18. And with that we've come a little further to make one of Norway's most important traffic years more modern and – not least – more roadworthy. For many years, the construction of motorways may not have been entirely politically correct, but experience has shown, not least through Westfold, that it has been beneficial for both accessibility, mobility and, not least – once again, road safety. Many, many lives have been saved. There's no less four-field road we need in Norway, that's actually more. For this E18 parcel, a large majority of the county council in Vestfold – and Telemark – have asked that the performance time be assessed to be extended to 20 years, in order to avoid excessive bombing charges. We in the Right regret that we did not get a majority in the Committee on a proposal that supports the county council in this matter. But it's not going to darken the moment. We are very pleased that we have finally reached such a point that we are dealing with this matter in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e153	The next speaker on the list is Borghild Tenden – but the order has to do with the size of the parties, so the president first gives the word to Jan Sahl, who drew himself in the most recent team.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e156	I was in good faith that it was registered. I'm sorry. As has already been explained on behalf of the case rapporteur, we are adopting today the development and financing of part of the E18 in Vestfold, located in the municipalities of Sandefjord and Larvik. We've come quite far with the extension of E18 to the four-field road. When the expansion between Kopstad and Gulli is completed, the E18 has a continuous four-field standard between Eik in Buskerud and Tønsberg. There is no long distance today’s decision – only 8 km of four-field road, a new bridge over the Numedallaggen and an environmental tunnel. The stretch is not long, but it means a lot to those who for a long time have been struggling with slow and steady queues between Tønsberg and Larvik. It's been a bottleneck here, as it stands in the setting. E18 Langåker – Bombard is planned to open for traffic in the autumn of 2009, and many people are looking forward to the opening day. This project will significantly improve the accessibility, road safety and environmental conditions of the route. Especially important here is the safety aspect. A reduction in the number of fatalities is expected and damaged between 70 and 90 pst., with the greatest reduction for the serious accidents. The process of reaching an agreement on the financing arrangements for the Langåker-Bommestad section has been extensive, but now there is agreement between the State Road Administration and the County Municipality to prioritize the route in the municipalities of Sandefjord and Larvik by further expanding the E18 in Vestfold, although this will lead to an intermediate two-way route for a period of time. We are informed that the Ministry of Transport will come back to Stortinget with a separate case on a comprehensive approach to the further development of E18 in Westfold when the necessary local political clarifications are available. Unnecessary toll periods are not desirable, and it is right that the general rule of 15-year toll periods is set in order to have room for action in the event of cost increase or traffic failure. The general rule of a 15-year toll period should be maintained, but now it is the case that Vestfold and Telemark county municipalities have taken the initiative to investigate a financing scheme with a view to completing the deployment of E18 through Vestfold to four-field roads by 2015. We know that both municipalities in June 2006 were in favour of the extension of the E18 to four-fields from Gulli to the Telemark border being financed by several antenna points and based on ex post collection. We also know that the county council in Westfold is concerned that high toll charges at the antennas can lead to significant traffic leakage to the other road network. In order to limit the amount of toll charges, Vestfold County wishes that the announced case for a comprehensive scheme for the financing of the whole E18 should be based on a 20-year recovery period. The lowest possible toll charges are desirable, but most agree, but it is also desirable that the toll period is not unnecessarily long. We in the Christian People's Party will leave the final evaluations to the local authorities and state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e171	In this case, there is broad consensus in the Committee that the continuation of the deployment of E18 through Vestfold is important. The E18 Langåker-Bommestad project will, as has been said several times here, improve the accessibility, road safety and environmental conditions of the route. The development will remove the E18 bottlenecks between Oslo and Kristiansand, one of Norway’s most important tribal road sections, with a major impact on both the people and the business community. In particular, the left has taken note of the extensive local process of reaching agreement on the financing arrangements for the development. Local democracy is important to the Left, and this consideration weighs heavily on this issue as well. Vestfold and Telemark County Councils have taken the initiative in setting up a financing facility to complete the deployment of E18 through Vestfold to four-field roads by 2015. In June 2006, both counties welcomed the extension of the E18 to four-field from Gulli to the Telemark border to be financed by several antenna points and based on ex post collection. I noticed, in line with the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party, that Westfold County is concerned that high bomb charges at the antennas can lead to traffic leakage to the other road network. In order to limit the size of the toll charges, the Left therefore favours the request of Vestfold County that the announced case on a comprehensive scheme for the financing of the entire E18 development should be based on a 20-year recovery period. Any other assumptions in the financing arrangement should also aim at the lowest possible toll charge at the antenna points. It is mainly due to local conditions and local democracy that the Left joins with the Right and Christian People's Party and wants 20 years of toll financing on the route.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e184	The extension of E18 in Westfold to four-field road is presented at several locations. In the north of Westfold, the construction of the Gutu–Kopstad section was established in 1998, while the works for the Kopstad–Gulli section started in 2004. These extensions, together with the last part of Buskerud, provide a coherent four-field road from Oslo to Tønsberg during 2008. For the E18 Langåker–Bommestad construction starts at the turn of the year 2006/2007, with opening for traffic in 2009. The project covers the construction of approximately 8 km of quadruple road with 29 m of road width in the municipalities of Sandefjord and Larvik. New bridges, environmental tunnels and levellings are part of the project, which will improve traffic performance and improve road safety and environmental conditions on and along the route. The expansion will remove one of the bottlenecks on the very important E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand. As a result of the project, a reduction in the number of fatalities was expected and damaged by 70-90 pst., with the greatest reduction in the serious accidents. The governance framework for E18 Langåker-Bommestad is estimated at 1,260 million. 2006-krona. The costs include the construction of toll stations, as well as the means used for planning, land-use and preliminary work. The financing plan envisages that the extension of the Langåker-Bommestad route is to be financed by tolls and with State resources for remedial measures on existing roads. With a borrowing rate of 6.5 pst. and toll recovery has been estimated at 10 years for this project. It is a high priority to continue the development of E18 through Westfold. It is therefore good that Vestfold and Telemark county councils have taken the initiative to issue a collection and financing plan with a view to completing the construction of a four-field road by the end of 2015. In order to avoid delays, the Ministry of Transport believes that the extension of the Langåker–Bomstadt route can be started before the completion of a comprehensive plan for the construction of the E18 through Vestfold. However, the project is foreseen to be part of this joint arrangement. If no connection to a collection is made, the project will be sub-financed by a back-up collection of two toll station sections in the south of Westfold. The Ministry of Transport will return to the Stortinget with a comprehensive plan for the further development of E18 in Westfold when local policy clarifications are taken. I have noticed that both a majority and a minority in the Committee have comments on the length of the toll period. The majority believe that a 15-year toll period should be maintained, but will be open to reconsider if developments make this necessary. I also think it would be right to stick to what is the main rule today, the 15-year toll period, but will follow up the plural's remark if it were necessary. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's proposal to extend and finance E18 on the Langåker-Bommestad section of Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e205	I record that the Council of State in its statement says that this project will be financed with tolls – and 50 million. kr from the State for remedial measures. Then I just want to make it clear that in the proposition it is clear that the section Langåker-Bommestad is entirely financed by tolls, so that it is clear, so there is no misunderstanding there. But I have a question about the evolution that we are now seeing with this government. After this day, we will have dealt with six toll projects in Stortinget. The development is like this: the Bergen program 56,2 pst. toll proportion, Hardangerbrua 66 pst. toll proportion, Atlantic Tunnel 73 pst. toll proportion, Finnfast 79,8 pst. toll share – and now two projects with 100 pst. tolls. If the standard applied by this government is now that future toll projects will be 100 pst. funded without State responsibility? Or can we hope and believe that this government sees its responsibility and reverses this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e214	The implementation of road projects during this period follows the national transport plan, which was confirmed by the previous survey. The projects contained in the National Transport Plan with State resources will be built and financed by state resources and sub-funds where appropriate. Projects which are not part of the national transport plan during this period may be started if a local plan so wishes, by means of toll financing. It will then depend on the amount of resources contained in the action programme in the national transport plan, how much resources the country has to provide, if not to take funds from other projects. Now this government has increased the transport budget. For the first time, we are at the level we should be at, that is, at the level set by the Stortinget in the previous period, and that the Progress Party subsidized its support with the current government party – i.e. DKK 1 billion above what the former government parties thought was possible for road construction in this period. So the reason why we now have some projects that are toll-financed in their health, like this, or partly financed, is simply that a local desire to get them in line, will not wait until they would otherwise come into priority, with the funds that are in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e223	The Council of State was careful to mention in its statement that there is also a major boost for local authorities and for the users in the area. It's important that we always have with us. But then I also think it is important to have that recognition with me when looking at the financial assumptions, which are not the responsibility of the state in this matter, but of the local authorities. Then I have to ask the question: does not the Council of State think that the county council's decision to have a longer toll period should be given weight, all the time it is really taking financial responsibility? I registered a certain opening in the posts of the Council of State, but could she be something more precise and promise that she will engage in dialogue with the county council on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e228	I have recorded, as I said in my post, that both a majority and a minority in the committee have noted the length of the toll period, and of course take it with me in my further work. The reason why we have 15 years of collection time is that users, or those paying this value – that is when they are road users – should know that there is an end time within reasonable time, and that there should be a possibility if the traffic base fails or the cost of development is higher than foreseen when this decision was taken, that there should be a slack to extend the toll period afterwards. That's why the government has kept to 15 years, with the exception of the holiday relief project, which has a framework of 20 years. Of course, I've registered what the committee says here, and I'm going to take it with me in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e237	That's two things. So this government goes from partial crime to total crime when you break the main paragraph of the main law on road construction in Norway, § 20. Is the Council of State comfortable sending such signals to the Norwegian community, and especially to all users? The second is that for a government that itself says that it is engaged in betting on roads, there is, of course, no obstacle to increasing the framework beyond the national transport plan set up, or to increasing the state involvement in that plan. What's preventing it? Is there a lack of money? Is there a shortage of capacity in the construction industry? Or is there simply a lack of political will on the part of this government to take national responsibility, that is, the responsibility of the Government and the State, which it still remains, for building roads in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e244	On the first question, the Council of State cannot say that it is inconvenient to come to the local and regional board of directors' wishes to obtain a road project which is in line with local and regional developments. I have previously also registered the Progress Party's concern about road laws. I mean I've responded to it before in this hall. I mean, we don't break the law more than that, because of course we've done this before. Through many connections in this room, the size has a certain variety of toll projects. We do not consider it to be a lawbreaker in this room. When it comes to the government's lack of political will, I think it's enough to point to the last state budget, where this government actually has a political will to bet on road construction, as opposed to the previous government, which was held by the power with the support of the Progress Party, where the representative could then perhaps use his influence to get more to the point – if one wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e251	First to the last. At least in the last period, the Center Party had almost zero influence on getting more money for transportation. It's a pleasure today, both because you get a new, long-awaited road, and because it will also help to reduce the accidents greatly in relation to all the accidents that have been on this route in the past. However, I have to allow myself to ask the Council of State if she now chooses to place the entire bill on the drivers, in addition to the fact that the state will probably save quite a lot of costs compared to having a significant reduction in the accidents. And doesn't the Council of State think it's a little special that this way you push the whole bill over to the drivers, and then the government is going to make money so that you also reduce the number of accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e260	Yes, it's right that the representative says, that the central party in the previous period had little impact. It also showed the transport budget. During this period, the Centre Party has a strong influence, and it also shows the budget for transport. In the previous period, the Progress Party had a major impact on the budget, which did not show the budget for transport. In this period, the Progress Party doesn't have such a big impact on the budget, but despite that, or maybe because of that, we have a billion bucks for road construction in this period. To the question of whether it is wrong or wrong – it is then a bit of the same thing that I answered the representative Sandberg, and the explanation is exactly the same. We're going to stick to some framework, we're going to meet our national transport plan. There are no funds in there to finance this route. In spite of that, it's unbearable locally. They want to create a project. One takes it up and that tax. I will praise these municipalities and the county council for that. That is why we have this decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e267	The reason why I want a line is what the Council of State has now said in two lines – not what goes on who has power and influence, etc., but more towards what the Council of State has now said twice: this government's historic uplift in its budget for 2007. The only historical feature of the 2007 budget is that the country’s share in road construction is less than tolls collected. Can the Council of State show me where this billion for road construction is in the 2007 state budget? This is what the Council of State has now responded to in two lines: this government has granted an extra DKK 1 billion in 2007 to build roads. Where is this billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e274	This government has provided a budget in line with the National Transport Plan. What has happened under previous governments is that one has underfunded the maintenance. We have a follow-up on maintenance that makes the investment budget increase dramatically. So what we're going to do now is we're going to lead half a billion to maintenance. One might almost say that it is also an investment, because what we are going to do is to keep it going so that if we go further, at least the investment budget has to be turned up further. Just as when we sharded down our house and had to take it back from the ground, we now have a name that is so worn down that there will be a very slippery transition between investment and maintenance on that road network. I am very proud that we have submitted a government budget with an increase in the road budget of NOK 1 billion. That's what I'm saying is a historic commitment, because there's no government before that has fulfilled the NTP. That's what this government has done. And we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e284	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e289	This day, we from Westfold have waited a long time for us to be patient with Western folds that have worn away for far too many years with the path of so-called shame, where lives have been lost and many have suffered lasting damage, and where there have been major environmental problems. The consensus has not been the great strength in our state, and therefore it has taken time before the matter has come. But it's on the agenda of people who wouldn't give up, of the people's reaction and of politicians -- with a lot of meetings for many, many years. It's a good day for Westfold and E18 and too many, many who use the road. Because Larvik wants to, among other things, means that we can use a very high nutrient range on the Ringdal Forest. It's been in a jam, because we haven't had a exit. It means jobs to a region that is sorely in need. The Gold Coast isn't what it once was. Vestfold also needs new jobs. The small part that is now being built means great social savings. The driving time is reduced for businesses. We spend a lot of time on our way in our little Westfold. Sometimes there's so much traffic that we can actually go faster. We can go from roof to roof, and it won't get any better in the future. I think that can be confirmed by all the cabin people who belong to the South East, and by ambulances going to other parts of the county, who would like to pass by quickly. Although midpoints have reduced the number of accidents and improved their emergence, it is still rather difficult to get past them. The Sande thoroughfare shows that road construction is useful – there is a reduction in the number of accidents and injuries. That's what we want in the South. A side gain that we see when we're getting ready for a new path is all the excavations that are going on. It shows exciting results, and it confirms Westfold's place in history. It's also important to include in the part that we're talking about: road development. The story is below, and we should know a lot about it before we dig it under a new path. I think everyone would have a new path without a bomb, but we from the Workers' Party in Westfold are realists. We want to go, and take the boom with us on the purchase. The late payment helps. When people see that they've got a new, great way to drive on, it's not so bad to pay. Without a bomb, there will be no way – and not our turn now either. So once again, it's a good day for us from Westfold. Now it's just the rest. We're looking forward to 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e304	We are now seeing the start of a very important part of the four-field development of E18 through Vestfold, after this particular project has been delayed for a long time due to local disagreement about the bombing position on this parcel. At the same time, we see that this part of E18 is the first part of a financial line with automatic toll stations for the entire stretch from Gulli to the Telemark border. So it's also the first time we get distance-dependent toll missions in Norway, as we know it from a number of other countries. Then I want to add that the financing of E18 through Vestfold is in reality project financing as good as anyone, and a good example of how access to capital for road projects can carry out effective development. But maybe this will be the last part of the expansion of the four-field road through Westfold. There is a certain danger that the Progress Party may have a decisive influence on county policy in Westfold in the next autumn of the county elections. In that case – I take the Advance Party on the floor – the expansion of the E18 will stop this. There will then no longer be a basis for a local agreement on a toll financing scheme, because this lot and its frenetic resistance to tolls transcend all local willingness to pay and want to improve accessibility and road safety. I want to add that we are now meeting a four-field continuous road from Oslo to Tønsberg. We'll get collective fields from Asker and into Oslo. Unless we bet at the same time on the Vestfold track, we will hunt passengers from trains and over on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e317	It is a government task to finance the development of the tribal road network in our long-range country. The road network in Norway is in an impenetrable state and requires enormous costs. And the government boasts on every occasion that they're betting on the way. However, overall investment in the road sector will increase, but the country does not have the credit. Each driver shall finance the entire road operation of the Government on this route. This is, with respect to reporting, disclaimer – with great A – and it happens in an area where people have been waiting for a new road for over 30 years. I'm going to be careful to draw the comparisons too far, but this is a kind of political extortion, and I think the representative of Gullvåg's posts here today confirmed it further. Over the last few years, several families have experienced the loss of one of their loved ones because the state has not taken its responsibility and built a proper path. And when the road is finally coming, what is the Government's solution? Well, either you pay the way yourself, or there'll be no way. There's no other way to view this as just political blackmail. I regret the strong use of words, but this is so close to the maximum discharge you can get. While the oil nation floods with oil crowns and we lend money to expand bomb-free roads in other European countries, we do not take responsibility in our own. Only on this route have four people been killed since 2001. It cost the state just over 100 million. kr. In addition, 81 people are injured, many very serious. In other words, the state makes money to build infrastructure, by reducing accident costs. It will save human lives, which is the most valuable of all, and it will save many families for tragedies. And cynicism lies in the underlying threat that residents and users have to pay for everything themselves, or watch the road remain irresponsible traffic hazard. Think about big businessmen thinking the same way! I am very pleased, on behalf of the people of Westfold, that the road is being built, after 30 years of empty promises. But if we're still going to pay for all the way ourselves, why couldn't we be allowed to do that 30 years ago? What does the state really have to do with this, if they're not even willing to pay a single penny to save lives on the route? I'm disappointed in the majority. The Progress Party is proposing state full funding for this road section, and it should have unanimous support here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e332	The progress party is pleased with the road development that lies in both this case and the next case. It's necessary, and it's important. The Progress Party strongly regrets the funding. It's unnecessary, and it's immoral. So this government is not going to continue to be able to take over and take into account the cross-sectoral effects of road development. Here you run from the bill, but you take it smoothly. It collects savings on accident costs, which are actually used as one of the main reasons for building the road – saving communities and residents for accident costs. You let the inhabitants take the bill for road construction, and you pay for the savings yourself. It's simply immoral. It's also true that we're passing a division today. This government, which in the past has promoted four roadways with toll financing and partially committed a crime, partly a breach of Section 20 of the Road Code, is now committing a complete crime and, in both this and the next case, allows the inhabitants to take the entire bill. So here it's just in this case an extra tax of NOK 1.2 billion. So to the representative of Gullvåg, who in his contribution gave an interesting explanation of what is now this government's project funding. It is true that the promise and presentation of a project funding model from the government parties was central to the election campaign – and also after the election campaign when the first budget of the red-green government was approached. So the project funding that was launched with fire and bram has been put to death in the first budget of the Government. In the Yellow Book, on page 102, project funding, as presented in the election campaign and from the Government, is dead. Then we are told by the representative of Gullvåg that this project that we are dealing with in this matter is project financing. It's a project finance that we know too well. It is that a toll company is established that borrows money, and users have to pay the entire value. That's what's left over. The innovation we get in road financing with the red-green government is no innovation. What could have been a renewal is buried, scraped, by the Ministry of Finance, by the Minister of Finance of this government. You're left with serving more and more of the bills to the residents, in the form that they have to pay directly, and you cling to the old toll company solution. At the same time, it has been proclaimed that public private cooperation is dangerous, we should no longer use it at all, it should be completely eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e346	It is a pleasure to write a new chapter on road development in Westfold. You can get the impression from some speakers from the Workers' Party that it has been silent for very many years. It doesn't have at all, it's being built all the time. There was a good breakthrough during the previous government, in the previous national transport plan. I would also like to make a comment to the speakers of both the Workers' Party from Vestfold, who stress the local disagreement. I think I would rather say that I would stress the local unity that has now been in Westfold County, to get the Storting and not least the Council of State to address the same assumptions that the Workers' Party and a large majority in Westfold County have joined in on the future collection, the future model of the overall expansion that this, after all, is part of. I am disappointed, and I find it incomprehensible, that not the Council of State, and perhaps even stronger the local representatives, have been able to influence the Council of State and the Department to stand together on this matter. On a joyous day, it is a bad message to send back to their own country. Then I also want to link a comment to the concept of project financing, which was mentioned in the previous speech, was a major concept in the election campaign. It turned out when the budget came, to be an illusion. But the illusion artist Steinar Gullvåg has today pulled out of his hat what it really is. It is simply a toll company that demands money from road users and finance the road in that way. Very simple, and very easy. I also want to say that one must not forget that Bommestad-Langåker, which is now the most important first project to begin, is part of a comprehensive development plan for E18 through Vestfold. Sometimes you get the impression from the speakers here that this is a detached piece that is funded only by the users. You have to see the total expansion together, and then the state also has a contribution in it. You might want to discuss that too little. Now the west folds after long discussions and long considerations have found that this is how we want it, so we want to build it. Then we get the road instead of betting on solutions that are uncertain, such as: the proposal of the Progress Party, where we see no other funding than immediate action by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e364	It is clear that if the Progress Party has a decisive influence on county policy in Vestfold in the 2007 elections, the further development of the road in the county will stop, simply because this party is French fighting against all forms of toll financing. It is going to go just as it was in Tønsberg, when the Progress Party promised before the last municipal elections that we would get away without a bomb. The result was that we got a bomb, but not a way. I would like to know what the representative Sortevik means by project financing, if project financing is not to borrow money, to fully finance a project and pay it off afterwards. That is what happens through toll financing for road projects. This is one form of project financing. Another form of project funding is the OPS projects, which we also know. A third form of project funding is simply to equip institutions with over-arching powers. All these are forms of project financing, for the notification by the representative of Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e371	For the previous speaker, it should be noted that the latest version had been exciting for all those who now have to pay 100 pst. tolls. If the state equipped the department with powers of over- and over-the-counter, one could actually get a staged, complete expansion, instead of as today, when we files at smaller stages in a large corridor. It would be a renewal, but we haven't seen that renewal yet. On the other hand, we have seen the funeral of what was launched from the red-green parties as the great innovation in road financing. It's still not there. I asked for the word one more time to address a couple of quite different issues related to such a big issue as this – an investment in the billion class. It is still the case that, as a specialist committee, we do not receive the quality assurance reports from the Ministry of Transport. In the past, we from the Progress Party have called for them in several other projects, and then we have got them. This time we have chosen to be a little daring, and have recorded that we still do not get them. I repeat the call, and I find it completely irresponsible that the Scientific Committee on Stortinget does not have the quality assurance material developed for the major state investments. That's especially true when they're 100 pst. financed by tolls. It is also to emphasise – at least from the Progress Party – that when we now enter a regime with several toll projects of 100 pst. funded by users, we must be careful that good exemption is granted. There is reason to recall from this pulpit, because we do not have a common regulatory body for toll-financed systems. It's very random, and it's very varied across the country, how to grant exemptions to those living in the community and to cross tolling arrangements. There's a reason to remember here, and there's a reason to ask for the prescriptions. Even if we don't want to have tolls, we are concerned that this should not be misused, and that those who have to cross a toll-funded route for some reason in their community will have the opportunity to do so without paying tolls. Finally, traffic growth: in this proposition, there has been a strong growth in traffic in this area over the last ten years and other parts of the same main road at 4 pst. annual. The conclusion of the proposition is based on 1.5 pst. traffic growth annually. So it's still the case that the Ministry of Transport operates with totally unrealistic figures in terms of traffic growth. We note that, and we regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e382	It's probably some people who live by an old wisdom saying that attack is the best defense. I have a certain impression that the representative of Gullvåg has it as one of his rules of life. But that doesn't mean it's always right. I think that the tirad he is trying to target the Westfold Progress Party – without argumenting or justifying, but only by making a detached claim – is due to the fact that the representative Gullvåg himself about a year ago was very good at telling us how big and beautiful road and rail solutions we were going to get in Westfold just became a government shift. We have received a government change, and it is still the case that the municipalities in Vestfold are losing in terms of the distribution of municipal funds. They are still lost in the allocation of innovation funds, they are still lost in the allocation of funds to hospitals, and they are still lost in the allocation of funds to railways and roads. Then I might think that representatives who have previously tried to tell voters in the home state that everything is going to be so much better during this ageing period should focus on explaining why it's not going to be so much better, rather than attacking others with hypothetical claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e391	A lot has been said in this debate. But I think at least I'm going to bring some information to remind you of different things. One is that in fact it almost sounds like it's just in Norway there are toll stations. No, that's not it. There are many other places in Europe. I also believe that the representative Per Sandberg got a real aha experience when we were on a committee tour in South Africa, where we drove through a lot of toll stations. I just wanted to remind him. I think it's pretty amazing that the Progress Party is able to make as many angry uprisings as they do now. So now they've been supporting the previous government, both in the previous period and in some period before it again, and then they haven't managed to remove a single toll station – the number has just grown. There's a lot of excitement that you want to do road development this way. I think the Council of State prepared this in an excellent way, including what was in the national transport plan, for the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, in fact agreed on how to create a national transport plan. This year, compared with the previous government, 22 billion dollars were added in ten years. I think it's actually now shining through some kind of jealousy, because now you see that you're in the process of fulfilling your national transport plan, and that's historic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e403	I fully understand, and I fully sympathise with the representative, Mr Stroem, and the representative, Mr Gullvåg. It is clear that it is tiring for them when the government imposes burdens on their shoulders, for that is what it does. When these representatives are going to a new election campaign, it is not useful to say, as the representative Stroem says, that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinge on this development. Outside people, there is a broad consensus that we do not want this development, and this is where these representatives have a huge problem of credibility. To the representative Stroem: Yes, I got an aha experience in South Africa, because they had so good ways! New roads could be developed, but despite this, the population had an alternative with other routes that exceeded Norwegian standards in all possible ways. I've just been to Spain. Bombing routes are also being built there, but the point is that when new roads are being built, people have an alternative that goes far beyond the standard on Norwegian roads. In Norway, we build calls, call and call, so people don't have any options at all. To the representative of Gullvåg: I think this is interesting. I think the description of project funding is so interesting that I think the Council of State should now clarify whether she agrees with the Gullvåg representative on the description of project financing. For then, something has happened here since the Government stopped further development of the OPS project. The argument used by the Government to stop the OPS project was that it would bring with it a renewal of project funding in the 2007 budget. So what happened? Is it Gullvåg who has recorded to the Government and explained to the Government what project funding is, and that the Council of State has then been convinced? I absolutely believe that the Council of State could explain it to the Stortinget. And then I don't take it upon myself when the representative Gullvåg talks about the influence of the Advance Party in the County Municipality. If we get influence, the county councils don't exist anymore, so the problem is gone. But I'm recording that Gullvåg wants new regions. Lekkasjer suggests that the regions will then also be given responsibility for road and infrastructure in the regions. It will then be interesting to see if the representative of Gullvåg has any influence on building roads. He'll probably get it, because then we'll get even more toll projects, of course. Otherwise, Gullvåg's opinions only merge into a series of approximates from the Workers' Party, from Prime Minister to Finance Minister and other government councils and representatives in this house. They're just dealing with approximates, without having the facts to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e414	It looks as if our Grand President has been quite right in saying that the committees are well off the road. Several people today have talked about what we learned in South Africa, and there we actually learned quite a lot. I have to say I was impressed by the way they had organized a lot of their infrastructure development. Among other things, they largely used project financing, OPS companies and other types of road financing. I listened to Steinar Gullvåg's posts and must be allowed to say that there is an elegant way to make a belly pad. Project funding was launched – as honestly as I think we should be – because the OPS solutions were as successful as they were. Then there were many who raised the question of whether the state itself could not realise the type of major projects as quickly as they also had an overview of total financing of projects over several years — in an honest starting point, which was also supported by the Right in the budget comments last year. But then the Ministry of Finance comes and says in the Yellow Book that we don't want this, and then I think the Government should be honest enough to say: No, well, then we'll be based on the solutions we have! The solution we have is the one that we've always had, as Steinar Gullvåg said correctly. In reality, we have had project funding in Norway in all toll projects throughout all years, for the state has never followed up its appropriations for 100 pst. in the annual budgets. And so the toll company has had to shoot, so that this has gone on – absolutely right! The OPS funding is a completely different type of financing and can also be a form of project financing. But it has in itself that it also assigns much of the other responsibility to the company. I think that's a proper development. I hope we can move on to that line. And I hope we can actually get so far that we can learn from the new nation of South Africa in that field and maybe get so far that we can get our own concessionaries in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e425	I didn't think I would agree to extend this debate, but I have to say a few little things in relation to Per Sandberg's posts. No, representative Per Sandberg: We have no credibility problem, neither Steinar Gullvåg nor signed. What we've done, and what we're going to do, is we're going to follow local democracy and its wishes, as opposed to the Progress Party. There's been a lot of local consensus, and it's important to clarify it. What happened during the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, was that the slowdown was only increasing in relation to the national transport plan. To date, I have not been given a proper reason why the Progress Party – by being a supporting party for the previous government – was unable to resolve the bet, at least on the road side. It didn't happen, the opposite happened. This may be explained later. It only went one way, it went back with the appropriations. What we want to do now – under the red-green – is to take back the retarded and fulfilling the national transport plan, and that is what we are about to start. I think the Progress Party actually sees that, and you might not have wanted you to have done the job we're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e436	I was challenged by Per Sandberg to say what project funding is. Project funding is the coherent development of a transport project, so that one benefits fully from the funds invested, as opposed to, for example: the development that one has had when it comes to rail on the west corridor, where one has invested many, many millions, not to say billions, but still does not have a coherent network that makes society profit from the investments you have made. Had a start at the one end and built up the west corridor coherently, one had benefited from them. It's project financing, that's a coherent expansion where one starts on a project and has full pressure on the project until it's finished. Projects may be financed in different ways, such as OPS, financed by banks, financial institutions may enter and finance them, the State may finance them by loans, or the State may of course also finance and run this type of project management within the framework. It will also be project financing. Bombs can also come in as a piece of it. All of this is project financing. There is no reason, as the previous government did, to go to private, because if a project finance fund is to be financed on a loan, then the state can do it on its own. And then the question is, is there money we're missing, or is there capacity? Today the capacity is: how much money a person takes into the Norwegian economy, determines the framework, not just for transportation, but for health, education and for everything. So, we kind of look at the Norwegian economy, and then there's a priority within the framework of how much is going to be transported. As a result, the Government has given priority to increasing the frame. When it comes to my budget, much of the budget is tied up over the years to pay for the OPS projects that the previous government has launched. Yes, it was effective, and that was good! We're going to do that too, and we're actually going to do that right now, because we have full pressure on expansion by launching projects. Instead of starting up new tribal road projects with very small funds, as the previous government did, this government is fully pressurised to launch projects, just to get full community benefit from them. It's actually a new way of operating transport policy, and not as the Progress Party did in the previous period. With the small funds they got into the transport budget, it was worth 10 million. NOK here and $20 million. where heavy installations were rigged for a small bit. It is the very opposite of project funding, and it is a little efficient way to develop Norwegian roads. This government is investing in efficient expansion. Project finance with loans has been set aside per year. today. We shall evaluate the OPS arrangement and we shall return with the result of that evaluation, of course in a clean and good manner. We have raised a frame of $2 billion, and that means $2 billion a year in the next period. It means much more than the billions that were given as a one-time go-ahead to OPS and that now charge my budget more each year until one has paid down the OPS projects in x number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e447	This has become a relatively special debate gradually, when South Africa begins to be drawn in as a comparison to the debate on the E18 Langåker-Bomstadt. But I actually think, with respect to reporting, that South Africa may be in a slightly different situation than Norway. As far as I know, South Africa does not have an oil fund that is going to pass NOK 2000 billion in 2007, while South Africa also has a lot of other challenges that make it possible to give a slightly different priority. In fact, South Africa will spend NOK 370 billion on infrastructure over the next four years until 2010, when it will organise the football World Cup in South Africa. This shows that, in fact, there are countries that have completely different challenges, but that are really on the road. I want to bring forward another country that the Transport and Communications Committee visited, namely Ireland. That's where you're going to spend NOK 270 billion building infrastructure. In fact, it is a country that really spends money on infrastructure construction. Unfortunately, in Norway, as others have noted, tolls are about to pass through national road investments. When the representative Stroem says that this government is complying with the national transport plan, I actually want to refer to the decision taken in connection with the national transport plan, where it is clear that the increased framework will mainly go to investment. Is it to comply with the national transport plan to remove approx. 50 pst. of the investment funds? That's what you actually do with the NTP that's here, when you bet and spend money on maintenance and upgrade. But you're taking from an investment that's going to go up to $1 billion, and not $12 billion, which this government is adding up to. It might be good to know if you think that is 50 pst. the degree of compliance with the NTP Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e458	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e461	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the training sequence she gave to the representative of Gullvåg. That's what I thought was great. Then I want to straighten out what my colleague, the representative Hoksrud, said. It's not right that this government is paying 500 million. kr on investments; the investment rate of this government is less. If one takes away the funds for Bjørvika, there is no money for investment for new roads from this government – that is zero. Then I must also be allowed to say that we are very pleased that the government also has a focus on the maintenance of roads. They are approaching the proposals of the Progress Party in this area. What comes out here from the representative Stroem and others about the priority that the government is doing next year is not right. Because if it is the case that transport has been given priority, one would believe that the share of the state budget for transport has increased. So it goes down. For me, it means that transport continues to be down-prioritized in relation to other areas. The share has fallen from 1.63 pst. to 1.51 p.m., and it has been since 1981.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e472	I had initially not intended to make more than one post on this matter, for there was a fairly large consensus on the implementation of it, and we still stand by that in the Christian People's Party. But there has been a debate on the concept of project financing. When the Council of State goes up to the pulpit to clarify what is contained in the concept as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, that project financing is to be explored, we assume – and we have received more answers to it – that there is something new, that it is not to continue toll financing and that there is no OPS, as was confirmed by several representatives of the government parties. Something new was to come up, and the new is debt financing from the state. And when the minister goes up here and talks the whole thing out, and points to the normal forms of funding that we've had all along, it approaches at my discretion disinformation in relation to what's in the Soria Moria statement, the answers we've received in the past, and what's now in the Yellow Book. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm whether what is stated in the Yellow Book is right, or whether project financing should be all that we have used in the past for funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e479	So now we've had a debate about fine roads in Africa. I just want to remind the Big Thing about what we're really debating here. This is a position of the Transport and Communications Committee on the development and financing of E18 Langåker-Bommestad in Vestfold. I had hoped that we could have a debate on this matter. So we've heard a lot about nice roads in Africa, but we haven't heard so much about poverty outside the fine roads in Africa that we're running on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 383]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e502	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e511	Today we are going to deal with the development of Rv. 306 Church Hill – Re border in Vestfold. This expansion must be seen in the context of the development of new E18 on the route Kopstad-Gulli. Rv. 306 will be a route of administration for new E18. This route will help to improve traffic and environmental conditions both in the Kirkebakken and in the Spoppum. The extension also includes a new walk and cycle road network on the inside of Spoppum, which will help to increase road safety for vulnerable road users in the area. In addition, the Committee is also very pleased that this development is likely to contribute to the relocation of a greater proportion of heavy traffic to and from the ferry link Horten-Moss. 19 to the new road. Rv. 306 is provided funded using 100 pst. tolls. The recovery period is calculated to be less than 15 1/2 years. However, estimates show that this project is very sensitive to changes in traffic conditions, and the State Road Service is therefore very uncertain whether the loan debt can be disbursed within the maximum repayment period of 20 years, which is also greater than for toll projects in general. The Progress Party is very sceptical that the government of Stoltenberg is now increasingly using tolls as the main funding for new road projects in Norway – I refer to the debate earlier today. We would also point out that it now appears that this government really wants to punish the drivers in Westfold and others who depend on using E18 through Westfold, or those who depend on using Rv. 306 and the road to Tønsberg. These are all projects where the toll share is the only source of funding, with the exception of the Tønsberg package, where the share is now about 95 pst. This seems to me to be totally unacceptable to the Advancement Party. The government collects approx. SEK 55 billion in income, including VAT this year, while only approx. 13 billion kroner back to roads and road-related purposes. For the Progress Party, this is unacceptable, and I would therefore like to re-examine the Progress Party's proposal for a state full funding for the development of R & D. 306 Kirkebakken-Re border.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e526	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e529	It is with great joy that I myself voted in favour of Rv. 306 in the Municipal Council of Horten and can now attend and treat rv. 306 in Stortinget, too. Vestfold has long represented an ever-increasing traffic section, as mentioned earlier, with a heavy load in relation to traffic accidents and deaths. Vestfold is becoming more and more an attractive group for commuters towards the capital, and we see that transport becomes an increasingly important theme for our citizens. After the expansion of the E18 began from Drammen and southwards, we are already seeing positive effects in terms of both the flexibility of traffic and the significant reduction in traffic accidents. It is therefore important for the majority, and not least for the population, that there is an ongoing focus on the development of better and more recent means of communication. And there's a lot going on in Westfold right now. Rv. 306 have had a long fight to be realized. As early as the early 1980s, investigations were started to improve the exit from ferry traffic and to E18 southwards. From then on, one of the oldest settlements in the municipality, i.e. the Kirkebakken, has borne the burden of heavy traffic, noise and pollution. It is therefore very gratifying to see that the Government gives us a clear signal that we will now have the lengthened road section that will be able to significantly improve the lives of the Horten people. I should like to take this opportunity to mention the great campaign of progress in this matter, which deserves to be commended for having been on for years, namely the rapporteur of the Labour Party, Nils Henning Hontvedt, and not least the good associations on the Kirkebakken and Spoppum. In fact, the church hill is a very special area also in the future, with a view to investing in culture – the Western College is the closest neighbour, which is currently being co-located, the Midgard historical centre, the national park, with an increasing tourist industry, is located here, and the railway network is being selected in the area. In these contexts, we need to be careful not to create new traffic challenges just for the Church Hill. In addition, this is one of the toll financing projects which have good and broad support for the population and the local government, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is on a collision course with the population. Of course, we would also have wanted a road for highways, like everyone else. But when there was now an opportunity to realize the road faster using tolls, both citizens and politicians threw themselves on. This says something about the importance of getting this road in place as soon as possible. At the same time, I must also take the opportunity to mention that, especially in the field of transport, it is an advantage – and perhaps also a prerequisite – that the statement ‘all is related to everything’ is expressed. Further construction of the E18 southwards is such a clear step in the handling of the Bomb City case, as we discussed earlier. Nevertheless, I feel a need to stress that further E18 development southwards needs to be given high priority. We will now be able to experience multiple bottlenecks on the Drammen-Larvik route in interim periods with gaps in funding. It gives an unbridled picture of traffic and increases the risk to people's safety, and we have to take this seriously. I therefore conclude with a call to the Government to continue the good work on the follow-up to the National Transport Plan, where we from Vestfold stress that the Barkåker-Tønsberg route is the first priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e550	I want with this proposition to be connected to the implementation of the development of new rv. 306 on the route Kirkebakken-Re border in the municipality of Horten in Vestfold. It is planned to start construction in the spring of 2007, and the project is scheduled to open for traffic in summer 2009. This project, as has been said from this chair, must also be seen in conjunction with the ongoing extension of E18 through Westfold to four-field roads. New roads on this route will provide better visibility and benefits for road safety and the environment. The project comprises 4,4 km of two-field road with a width of 10 metres from the intersection with rv. 19 north of the town of Kirkebakken to the border with Re kommune. The road is placed outside the town of Spoppum, which is loaded for transit traffic, and the construction of pedestrian and bicycle road networks on the inside of Spoppum will improve the conditions for soft road users. The town of Kirkebakken is also relieved of the anticipated traffic from Rv. 19 to Rv. 306. Toll financing of R & D. 306 on the route Kirkebakken – Re border has been drawn up at several locations, among others. in connection with the development of E18 in Vestfold. The estimate of costs is estimated at 310 million. 2006-kr. The estimate includes costs for setting up a toll station west of Spoppum. A two-way toll station shall be established and an expropriation in an automatic, unmanned toll station shall be grounded. The underlying financial plan provides for the project to be fully financed by tolls. In June 2002, the Vestfold County Municipality took decisions on toll financing of the project based on toll station location west of Spoppum, which was in line with Horten Municipality's wish. There is considerable uncertainty about the traffic bill for the project. This is because there are alternative routes in the area, and it's uncertain how toll payments on rv. 306 will affect traffic distribution. In order to reduce the risk to the guarantor of the Toll Loan, the Municipality of Horten, the Ministry of Transport concludes with the Road Directorate’s recommendation that traffic regulation measures be assessed on Rv. 19 and, where appropriate, rv. 310 if traffic transferred to rv. 306 is going to be significantly lower than what's added to it. Toll collection period is calculated to be less than 15 1/2 years. The main rule is that the tolling period shall not exceed 15 years. The Ministry of Transport therefore agrees with the Road Directorate’s recommendation that it should be a requirement that the toll company enter into a binding agreement on lower borrowing rates than 6.5 pst. for a period of 10 to 15 years. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee have joined the Government's proposal on the development and financing of R & D. 306 Church Hill – Re border in Vestfold. It is true that everything has to be seen together, and this is an important project, not least for the soft road users and to develop an area of densely potential cities, where the potential is greater when you get a better traffic management than you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e567	No one has asked for the word in reply. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e572	I feel a need to take the word because it should not be left standing an impression that this local consensus is as touching as what we have heard both in this case and in the previous case. This is the case, and I mentioned it so far in my speech on the previous case, that local politicians and the local community feel the pressure because the state does not take its responsibility. And then when one faces the difficult priority of accepting the enormous burden of toll financing, or not getting away and still having this road that is dangerous to the traffic, there are many who have to bite in the sour apple. I think it's about representatives from both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and others as well. That's why I think it's a little wrong to present it as if you're kind and easy to take care of local initiatives and take this through, because what you've actually done is to push local people, and also part of the population, to have a sense they'd rather not have, because they want the state to take responsibility. If it had been so that the local consensus was so touching, as, among other things. The representative, Kristoffersen Kosmo, said from this pulpit, why is it feared that the burden on the other roads, the roundabout routes to Rv. 306, will be that big? If the local consensus is so extensive, everyone will take advantage of the toll road, and then the reversion issue is not present. I would therefore also like to clarify in this case that local consensus is something that has been pushed forward by the state, not locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e597	We are now considering a proposal to allow medical cars to drive in collective fields. Maybe one should take some history. In 2001, a test scheme was established whereby municipal medical carers could obtain the status of a call-out vehicle upon application. The testing scheme expired on 1 March 2005, i.e. after three years of operation. It has actually not been used very much, only one vehicle was redrawn and granted a call-out status. On its own, this could mean the removal of the scheme. However, the Ministry has decided that the scheme will come into force again. The Ministry did so, among other things. at the request of the health authorities. I thought that was a very wise decision. The printing status of toy cars has the undisputed advantage, rather than opening to public-sector toy cars, of ensuring that it is accessible even where it is not a collective field. In addition, a certain level of training is required for the driver of a car defined as a call-out vehicle, which ensures road safety for both medical and other road users. I want to stress that particular point a little bit. Training is needed when driving a call-out vehicle. Then I can hit a blow for Våler traffic center in Hedmark, who has just a high level of competence in this field, which is the training of drivers of call-out vehicles. I want to emphasize the exact training piece quite a lot. I therefore believe that the need to bring medical cars forward quickly has been very well taken care of by the department's decision to put the scheme back into force. With a little smile, one might say that in itself this proposal could have been clarified by a telephone to the department, but it is a proposal that has been promoted in the best sense, and where a positive solution was found. Here's a unanimous committee that's behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e612	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 384]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e625	We then go to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e633	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The project E18 Langåker-Bommestad is implemented with full State funding. The Government is asking for speedier development than the adopted plan of progress by the use of advances in State resources pending the submission of a separate State funding case in the Grand Duchy.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-26.ana.ud887e667	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The project rv. 306 Church Hill – Re border is implemented with full state funding. The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development is speeded up than the adopted plan of progress, using the advance in State resources, pending the submission of a separate State funding case in the Stortinget.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
