ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e43	In August 2001, the Norwegian ship ‘MS Tampa’ registered in Tønsberg and its shipping company Wilh.Wilhelmsen took up 438 boat refugees outside Christmas Island. The refugees were in distress at sea. However, the Australian authorities — Australia was the country to receive the refugees under international law — refused to accept those in need. Both refugees, ships and shipping companies were put in a very difficult situation that took time to resolve. It ended with New Zealand taking care of almost half of the refugees. Australia accepted 65. A number of other countries also accepted refugees — two of them even came to Norway. This is the background to the issue we are dealing with today, namely the changes in the maritime law, which in turn are the result of Norway's accession to the amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea and the changes to the International Convention for the Exploration and Rescue at Sea. The size has been dealt with a few weeks ago by the amendments to these Conventions, following the suspension of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The "Tampa" case revealed with all due clarity that the international legal rules in this area were not good enough, not least the obligation of individual countries to provide shipwrecked humane treatment and the duty of masters to pick up persons in distress. The captain of the "Tampa" harvested as well-known praise for his performance, for his skilled seamanship, and for standing firm on asserted principles at sea. Since then, the Norwegian Maritime Administration and the Norwegian Foreign Service have taken up the ‘Tampa’ case for discussion within the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). So this has resulted in changes to the two international conventions mentioned above. Inner. O. No 29 and Ot. pp. No 31 deals with the implementation of the Convention amendments in Norwegian legislation. The aim is to strengthen and clarify the captain’s right and duty to assist persons in distress at sea and to ensure that persons in distress are treated and treated in a dignified manner. The committee's position is unanimous, and I recommend that Odelstinget take a decision in accordance with the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e60	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 140]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e76	The size has to be treated Ot.prp. No 8 for 2005-2006, cf. Ot. pp. No 78 for 2004-2005 on the law on changes in the law on land change, so-called urban land change. The case was first promoted by the government of Bondevik II and was re-launched by the government of Stoltenberg II after the previous roll-out. I will present the Committee's proceedings and the special comments made by the Party for Progress in the vote. In 2002, the Bondevik II Government set up a sample to investigate changes to the Land Change Act and assess the need to adopt legal provisions that could regulate urban land change. The committee was composed of competence from the ordinary courts, from the land change rights and from state and municipal development competences. The majority of the sample found that it was appropriate to clarify the law, so that the instruments of the Land Change Act can also be used in urban areas and not only in LNF areas, as practices have mainly been up to now. The government has proposed a number of changes to the law on landslides that provide the basis for this, as shown in the setting. By using the urban instruments of the Land Change Act, the aim is to improve the use of land to be developed and to properly allocate costs and revenues in the development of the landowners involved. The government has also proposed an increase in fees for parcels of land in order to cover the additional costs assumed to result in legislative changes, including: in the case of a lifting of competences in the rights of land change. A unanimous committee believes that the fees should not be increased as much as proposed by the Government, but a minority, the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, will oppose an increase in fees at all. The Committee supports the Government in the need to introduce rules on urban land change. Soil rights have a special competence that can also be applied to properties in more densely populated areas, even if there is a need for a certain level of competence after the amendment of the law. The Committee has pointed out in its Opinion that in recent years a number of issues have been raised for the Storting on changes in the field of the plan and that several public authorities have also been set up to address closely related issues in the field of the plan. The Committee has clarified the need to better coordinate both public investigations and issues promoted by the Storting, so that issues can be seen more closely. There is disagreement in the Committee on the introduction of new provisions in the Law on Land Change Sections 2, 5 and 74. In the following I shall express the views expressed by the Progress Party. Ownership is one of the most important institutions on which our Constitution and our social system are based. It is then necessary to be very careful to make changes to the laws or regulations of this important institute. The Constitution also sets clear limits on the action that can be taken in ownership, where the rule of expropriation is clearly stated. The amendments proposed in Sections 2 and 5 have, in our view, expropriative aspects that make the Storting not appropriate. The fact that the bill is mainly justified in the public interest also underlines this. The legal-disciplinary evaluation of these principal aspects has been thoroughly discussed by the minority in the sample, the member Stensrud, and in the consultation opinion of the Norwegian Bar Association. I will therefore not go into such a discussion here, but briefly join in the assessments that were made there. The introduction of volunteering among all the landowners involved avoids any claim that land change is expropriation. Demanding unanimity among landowners before their property is outsourced for development is a good principle, which should be followed and which will ensure solutions that all landowners can stand behind. I refer you to the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. I refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, as well as the proposal put forward by the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e104	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e107	So geothermal elov is an important law, and it's a complicated law. From a historical point of view, the Land Change Institute goes as far back as the Land Law of 1274, which promises text in the first row a gallant lease change. The area has developed gradually until the right to land change we have here today. There have also been a number of individual changes in the laws over the years, with the result that the laws are partly unwieldy and difficult to understand. An ongoing reform and modernisation of laws has been a warning for many years, and what we are dealing with today is a step on the road in this way. The Migration Institute shall clarify ownership relationships in border or judicial matters and improve the use of ownership by creating a legally imposed shift profit before the so-called shunting field. So geothermal elova is therefore an important institution to ensure legal certainty for landowners in this country. The main purpose of the amendments we are about to adopt today is to make the legal instrument of the Land Change Initiative appropriate for landowners and law-holders in the implementation of plans under the Law on Planning and Building. In today's planning and building law, expropriation is an important tool for solving problems related to property relationships in construction matters. According to the rules of the day, municipalities have the right to regulate the development and then expropriate to carry out the development. But expropriation is both conflict-filled, heavy-wine and less flexible. Local authorities want voluntary schemes to be achieved as far as possible, and the consequence is that it will be difficult for municipalities to control their development. This often results in little holistic solutions, and it is unfortunate from both a private and a socio-economic perspective. Planning according to the planning and building laws is today largely based on individual estates, so that the property boundaries are governed by planning. This sometimes leads to unfortunate and cost-required land use, which several local politicians will probably be aware of. The changes will give municipalities a travel hub to stimulate the development of areas where local authorities will find it desirable. When the potential for land change can be linked to the regulatory and development plan, there is a broad societal assessment underpinning the land change requirement. The proposal is designed so that owners must also have a desire for density, so that all owners in the planning area can be assured of the benefits of using the instrument. This will also result in planning solutions focusing on the planning phase and not property limits. I think this is very useful. Landslides can also help to avoid unused areas and dead areas between the built-up units. The proposed new legislative instrument for the allocation of land values and the sharing of costs of joint actions and the reduction of planned disadvantages, including: by inappropriate design of property limits, will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the law. The proposal shall not only apply to cities and agglomerations; the extension of the cab area shall also be covered. It is important to note that the objective is to maximise the use of the total area. To be able to execute, all must be some, or there must be a two-thirds multiple solution. A minority, if any, will not only be harmless, but will also be entitled to a net increase in the value of its property. No party to a land change case shall be subject to private economic losses. Therefore, we cannot support the Progress Party's proposal that there should be full agreement in all cases that land change should be carried out. Finally, I would like to say that from the Labour Party's point of view, it seems unfortunate that the costs of the new tasks should lead to an increase in the fee for all the parcels of land. But I'm glad that the majority in the committee have come up with a breakdown of the costs that means that there will be a reasonable balance between the fee and resource use in the new cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e128	The applicant’s rapporteur informed the content and background of the case in a good manner. Proposals for the amendment of the Land Change Act were promoted by the Bondevik II Government and then promoted again by the Stoltenberg II Government. The matter thus has broad support. The legislative proposal provides for a clear improvement of the system of land parcels and facilitates private economic gains and social savings by improving land use. It will also be easier for the parties to a land change to be able to deal with one body through the implementation of regulatory plans and building plans, i.e. the right to land change. There is also a need for the Land Change Institute to be more widely used in densely built strips in order to improve planning and for landowners to see their land in context before development is carried out. This applies to both the use of land and infrastructure such as parking, road, water and sewerage. Government lots have been involved in committee proceedings in order to derogate from the principle in the proposition that the costs of the new tasks of the right to land change should be borne by the users. The amendment promoted by the government parties means that half of the increase in costs is not covered. Strangely enough, the majority have not commented on the progeny consequences of their proposal in their comments. On the other hand, the Council of State, by letter to the undersigned dated 6 February, confirmed that the loss of revenue resulting from the proposal of the Government Parties must be covered either within the budget of the Right of Change or by a minor increase in the budget of the Right of Change of Land when the Act enters into force. Now it's like the whole reform has a cost per cent. an estimated 4.8 million years. kr. Without discussing the progeny consequences, the government parties have reduced the impact of this initially relatively limited proceeds by half. At the same time, the majority have amended the charging guidelines so that some landowners receive a significantly higher fee for land change. In total, this leads to the increase in the fee that remains in the majority proposal of approx. 2.5 million. kr, appears to be of little use, and we have therefore chosen to support the continuation of today's fee structure, so that no additional costs will be incurred as a result of the reform. Land change may result in undesirable interventions by some landowners that are minor when land change is carried out through agreement between 2/3 of the landowners who together own at least 2/3 of the land. In the opinion of the Right, the rights of the minority in a land change will be well safeguarded by demonstrating that all landowners covered by it will receive a net added value of the change. Individually, then, the law provides a guarantee of security that no one will suffer loss. It's a central mechanism in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e141	Changes in landslides are not the things that are most remarkable in the political change of words. The same is true today, with a broad deal about the Committee's configuration. It is also quite convincing that the difference is found in the question of fees to deal with new types of cases according to the law. When it comes to the content of the legal changes themselves, there is a deal between the old government parties and the new ones. It was the co-operation government that brought this up before the summer, and the red-green government joined in. The law aims to make the legal instruments of land change applicable to landowners and lawholders so that they can implement plans according to planning and building laws. It applies to both existing and new instruments. Land change can help make land use and planning more efficient. Christian People's Party believes we need new tools that can stimulate better use of existing construction sites. It can trigger high values and save public too much investment in new infrastructure such as roads, water and sewerage. We also need tools to facilitate cooperation between basic owners in planning. The use of landslides also opens up so that we can plan and develop several possessions together. This way, the planning solutions can get into focus, not the property limits. The Christian People's Party believes that the new types of scissors in the landslides make it easier to find good solutions in densely built strips. The new tools also take good care of the rights of minorities in a land change. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State has indicated that the increase in the amount of property under the laws is no greater than the increase in the costs that can be largely covered by a minor concession to the right to change the land when the laws are in force. On the basis of this information, the Christian People's Party does not now find it necessary to increase the fee for the right to change. We stand by this as co-sponsors of proposal No. 1, to keep the fee as they are today. With this exception, the Christian People's Party will support the setting from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e150	As has been pointed out by several speakers, the main purpose of the proposal is to make the legal instruments of the Law on Land Change applicable to landowners and rightholders in the context of the implementation of plans under the Law on Planning and Building. Planning according to the Planning and Building Act is today largely based on individual property cases, and then the property boundaries are governed by planning. It may result in unsatisfactory and costly land use in the form of unnecessary roads and unnecessary consumption of cultivated land and arable land. It can also damage the natural and cultural environment. In addition to the instruments provided by the Law on Planning and Building, there is a need for comprehensive planning solutions adapted to terrain and natural conditions. A key condition for promoting a land change cause is the creation of a net shift gain in the parcel. This gain shall be distributed among all parties to the case. The Act provides on an individual basis a security guarantee that no parties shall suffer loss. It's an important starting point for all soil change issues. According to the law in force, it is enough that one party requires a land change. However, for the two new types of cases proposed in this proposition, there is a need for consensus or at least a 2/3 majority to raise a case for landslides. In the context of the consultation of this legal case as well as in the minority setting, it is noted that there should be full consensus in order to promote a land change case following the two new types of case. However, the proposal presented is based on solutions achieved by consensus – I want to underline it – or 2/3 majority. In the Central Party, we cannot see strong enough considerations that speak of a small minority being able to prevent the large majority from achieving an increase in annual income or wealth as a result of a land change issue. In particular, when the minority is not only to be held harmless but also has a legal claim to obtain a net increase in value of its own property through the land change case. The purpose of the proposal for a new § 2, first paragraph, point (h) is to allocate land values and costs between those who receive development rights, i.e. land and commercial land, on their property, and those who do not. The majority then assume that the competences of the right to land change include both the property that is granted development rights and the properties that are given out land for free areas, parking lots, roads, etc. These are particularly complex issues that we have seen in recent issues relating to the development of cabin areas, and where the value of cabin areas is, in fact, dependent on walkers, roads, etc. which passes over the property of other rightholders. So at the end of the fee rates. We in the majority think it is unfortunate that the costs of the new tasks lead to a lifting of the fees in all soil change cases. In particular, it is unfortunate that the border-length charge is lifted. The multiplicity setting assumes that the costs are set up to a greater extent than those resulting from the draft proposal in such a way that there is a reasonable balance between fees and resource use over time for the new cases. Against this background, an intermediate solution is proposed, whereby the party fee is cancelled by 1.8 times the legal fee in accordance with the draft law, but that the party fee on a case-by-case basis according to § 2, first paragraph, h and i is increased to 5 times the legal fee. When it is proposed not to change the border length charge, it is related to the fact that we have recently seen a trend in non-promoting land parcels due to costs. Especially for properties with long boundary lengths. Finally, the proceeds calculation. We have promoted, as the representative Torbjørn Hansen said, a proposal for fees that means that half of the cost increase is not covered. We believe that this is realistic and will, of course, come back to it in the context of subsequent budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e169	This legal work is called "urban land change". In my view, the connection to the development of cabins and leisure is a very important dimension, and therefore this post. The right to land change is a court rather than an administrative body. In other words, the right to change must not give priority to public interests over private interests. The requirement for land change according to the first paragraph of Section 2 (h) is that at least 2/3 of the landowners who have at least 2/3 of the land require land change. It is important that this derogation from the requirements of the Land Change Act in order to promote a soil change case is not eroded by reducing the 2/3 requirement. As indicated by the majority of the observations, the area to be taken into account is both the property to be granted development rights and the property to be occupied for free space, parking lots, roads, worked-up ski runs, etc. In order to allocate land values and costs as a court of law between those granted development rights, e.g.: land and other commercial land, laid out on its property, and those not given it, must be added to the market price of those land, i.e. the market price within the stroke – or what is called the strike price in the case of the highest-law terminology. The strike price obtained for, for example: cabins must therefore also be used for the areas needed for activity on adjacent non-construction areas, such as areas used for worked-up ski slopes, as mentioned above. For example, municipal planning of a cab area must be carried out in such a way as to provide a clear land use and land needs for a larger area than the construction area itself. The size is determined by future activity in the range. In this context, it is important to clarify that the right to land parcels should not become part of municipal planning, but should, as a court after the planning process has been completed, look at the whole area as a whole and allocate development rights so that landowners outside the development area can also be granted development rights within the development area on behalf of others. This process must be seen in conjunction with the Planning and Building Act § 26, first paragraph, new fifth sentence, which is also part of the setting. As a result of this legislative process, there is now a need for clarification of information to interested parties on the planning process and role-sharing between the law on land change as a court and the planning authority as a public planning body. This is very important, so that we can get an information, a clarification and a clean procedure when these matters come to the fore. In the case of existing construction sites, such as cabin areas, the new letter in the first paragraph of Section 2 of the Land Change Act is intended to provide the legal basis for the treatment by the Land Change Act of measures to remedy disadvantages resulting from regulatory plans for existing built-in construction areas. As I see it, this is an extension of the right to land change to implement the system of use to which the law already gives access. Since it is difficult to compensate for the disadvantages of neighbouring properties in which the development plan has been implemented in many cases, compensation in such cases must be provided in another way, for example by an annual fee for those who own or attach to the site. As mentioned above, the strike price should also be taken into account in this type of case. The need for such a clean-up is found in a number of cabin areas, where neighbouring properties have to be quiet with area for parking and worked-up ski runs. It's a very important thing we're dealing with, which is very important to get a practice that can make the difficult conditions that we see today get a better process. But as stated, the Court of Justice is a court, the planning bodies are public bodies, and here we must have a very clear distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e192	Odelstingen is currently dealing with a number of important amendments to the law on landslides. The proposals are all aimed at adapting the instruments of the law on landslides to the needs of our time. Today's needs are linked to far more than changing land or forest parcels to make farming more rational. There is a need for concretely adapted common rules for joint actions in the operation and maintenance of private roads, etc. The proposal for a new use regulation could be a useful tool to achieve this.Society needs instruments to stimulate the increased use of existing construction sites. The use of land-change solutions relating to such areas as proposed in the new point (h) and (i) of the first paragraph of Section 2 may trigger significant values, while at the same time saving the public for investment in new infrastructure such as: roads, water and sewage. It could also prevent the unnecessary use of cultivated and arable land. The use of land-change solutions may provide the owners with rules on the use and distribution of costs by joint actions, and it may help them to allocate any value added for the area so that landowners who do not become independent land are also given part of the value added. Earth change also results in one avoiding the remaining “scalkers” and “dead” areas between the developed units. Disputes and problems should be resolved at the earliest possible stage, and the judicial and spatial mediation procedures take into account that this should be done to a greater extent than today. In the odelstingsproposition, the Ministry proposed amendments to the provisions on fees. This proposal was slightly revised by the Committee, in order to reduce the increase in fees, and in particular the marginal extension fee. I think that's a good solution. I have also noticed that there have been divided opinions as to whether it is necessary for all owners to agree that the new rules for urban land change can be used. Therefore, if not all agree, the legislative proposal assumes that the requirement for land change may nevertheless be promoted if: there is a decision on the use of land parcels in the Municipal Council and a qualified majority of landowners wishing to use land parcels, and if the area of that majority is disposed of, is more than 2/3 of the total area subject to the land change; Although owners may have different interests in the further use of the property, the proposal implies that they are taken into account, while at the same time providing room for solutions that may have high societal value. The rights of land change were transferred to the Court of Justice from 1 January 2006. It will then become an important task for the judicial administration to follow up the changes in the law on land change. These provisions are justified by important societal interests, and I think they should be implemented as soon as practicable. I am therefore aiming to ensure that the amendments can enter into force from 1 January 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e230	The representative Lundtigen made a statement just before the Council of State on how he perceives today's legal changes to apply, in particular in relation to the use of nearby open spaces for ski runs, etc. As far as I understood, it was that those who have areas that are used for skiers should also be able to obtain development rights. I just want to ask the council if he shares Lundtigen's interpretation of this, and if the government will follow up the law in accordance with the post that Lundtigen made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e236	The whole intention behind the bill is that one should be able to see areas in a larger context, and that one should be able to find common solutions as a good one where it is difficult, and use the Land Change Agency as the institute to find common solutions. I realized that it was also the intention of the representative Lundtigen and what he was concerned about in his post. It's an intention and a premise for the law that I naturally support, and that's part of the whole process we've been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e241	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e244	I would like to take this opportunity to comment on some of the points of view raised in the debate. On the part of the representative of Eldegard, it was stressed that municipalities have the opportunity to carry out expropriation, but that these are largely contentious issues. I support that. But it is clear that when you want to introduce such an institute as we are now facing, where a majority can force a minority, you will have a situation that is very close to expropriation, and that is too poorly addressed in the bill. If the municipalities want to get away from expropriation, there's a dialogue between implicated landowners that's the right way to go. Finding solutions with all the implicated landowners could probably take more time for most municipalities. It is not the case that the municipality has no means of improving the use of land between different areas of development. Today, the municipality has the opportunity, through the area section of the municipal plan and when the extension area comes to be treated in the municipality as a regulatory plan, to make the requirements that the municipality believes are right, and to have a dialogue between the landowners. So my opinion is that today the municipality has the tools to be able to impose requirements on landowners who want to develop, on better coordination and infrastructure requirements, such as: way. There is a reason that has been used by several speakers here today. The question is whether we need more coercive instruments. Focusing on the fact that landowners will receive an economic coverage or an increase in value through the adoption of the proposed plan through the treatment of the land change right becomes too narrow. For many landowners, there are completely different conditions that will be decisive than the economic one when you don't want to expand. It could be family relationships, or it could just be that you want to keep some space around. On the part of the representative, Lundtigen, it was clarified that the right to land change is a court. That's right. However, the use of courts and similar remedies invites conflict and disagreement. It would be much better to resolve any conflicts before using court-like measures. A better municipal planning process will improve land use and dialogue between the landowners involved, both for landowners and for others with adjacent areas. In this way, you can also meet the challenges you face with areas that do not benefit from good use in nearby areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e257	I'll just give a short answer to the previous speaker, who commented on my post. He wants there to be a deal between everyone, and not just two thirds of a number, as the proposal now implies. Most people want everyone to make a deal, but we have to think that it's important here to remember that the goal, as I also said in my previous post, is to get the best possible use of the total area. Then it's a very bad thing if someone who owns a very small part is going to be able to prevent a greater use of the area. That's the background we've gone for it, but of course, everyone is a few that dialogue and unity are the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e262	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e270	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e311	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e321	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e420	There is an alternative proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5 new second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Cases under point (h) of the first paragraph of Section 2 and i may only be required where all the owners of land parcels are agreed upon.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e552	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 74, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: in the case of land change proceedings, border proceedings and legal settlement proceedings dealt with in the event of a land change right, a fee shall be paid 5 times the legal fee at the entry fee and 1,5 times the legal fee per. Cut the bottom path's stroke into pieces, removing fill [[limit length charge]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e613	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e623	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02-lower.ana.ud2071e634	There is no record.
