ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e30	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Helge Solum Larsen, has taken the seat. The representative of Laila Davay submitted an application for leave on 16 and 17 November to attend the EFTA Parliamentary Conference in Geneva. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Knut Arild Hareide, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Laila Davay, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Toril Selsvold Nyborg, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e58	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e80	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e89	I'm not going to ask the Prime Minister about the revelation in the Nettavis today that he was actually responsible for the option program for the Telenor management. I will ask how the Government intends to deal with an increasingly alarming situation, namely that an estimated 20 000 asylum seekers without legal residence, and probably even without identity, are somewhere in Norway without Norwegian authorities having control of where they are. We are constantly hearing examples of this, of international leagues trying to recruit asylum seekers for crimes on asylum recipients by offering them a new identity. It appears that racism has been waged against asylum recipients, and there are therefore legitimate asylum seekers who should not be there. In addition, there is something wrong with the system, because temporary work permits are issued to asylum seekers who have not been dealt with. These work permits are not withdrawn at the moment when an asylum seeker is refused his/her application. This creates major problems, and it almost encourages illegal acts in an area where we do not want them at all. So I have registered that the government's answer to this so far is almost to start some kind of research project. But what I don't understand is what the government is going to research. Is it not better that the Prime Minister and his government now provide the police with sufficient resources so that these 20,000 illegal asylum seekers can be traced and transported from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e98	I would like to answer first the question that the representative Siv Jensen did not ask, namely about the option programme. It is absolutely right that under changing governments there have been option programs in companies where the government is the joint owner. So we've seen that these options programs are now degenerate and become completely unreasonable. This is why the Government has developed a new policy in its work on the ownership notification, and it consists of at least two elements. One is a legislative amendment that requires the adoption by the general meeting of all types of value-based remuneration systems, such as: options. The second is that the state is now tightening its policies and saying that in the future we will be voting against all option programmes in well-established companies, such as the United States. Telenors and related companies. That's a tightening that we think is right, and that we think is necessary. That is why I am pleased that the representative at least gave me the opportunity to comment on that question. So to the question itself. The government is against people who do not have legal residence in the country being in the country. We want them no longer to be here. We are committed to strengthening the capacity to process applications for asylum, and to increasing the capacity of both police and foreign agencies to send out people who have not been legally resident. We've strengthened UDI's capacity. We have also strengthened the police's capacity, and we are therefore supporters of the fact that the police and the authorities are doing their job and making sure that people who do not have legal residence are not in the country. Whether the number is 20,000, I won't dry to comment, but it's either way too high a number. There are too many people in Norway who are here without a legal stay. That is why, both by strengthening the capacity and also through the new alien law that Stortinget will soon be presented, we are concerned about doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e105	It is true, of course, that we need to deploy resources to speed up proceedings in the UDI, but in the state budget now presented by the Government, there is no sign of wanting to strengthen police resources – and thus the police's ability to intervene in this serious task too. There have gradually become many areas in the fight against crime where crime is increasing. This puts the police in a completely impossible situation with regard to prioritising everyday crime versus organised crime and other types of serious crime. I therefore think it is a little helpful when the Prime Minister says that more resources have been made available to the police. The government has not done so in this state budget. My question is then: When is this matter serious enough for the government to prioritise it? Is it in 2008 – or maybe in 2009? There is no evidence that the government prioritises this in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e114	Firstly, the police have considerable resources. The police will ensure that people who do not have legal residence in this country are not here. Secondly, there have been important signals from the Government, from the Minister of Justice, that this is something the police should follow up, because it is an important part of the police's work. Thirdly, and not least, we have strengthened UDI's procedural capacity. I think that getting a faster procedure, having a faster decision as to whether or not people have legal residence, also makes it easier to get a faster return. And we've strengthened the capacity for repatriation. We agree that it is important to do something about this. Let's do something about that. This is a major problem in many countries, as the representative of Jensen points out, and we are asked to assess whether we will step up our efforts later in budgetary proceedings. It's not like nothing's happening today. On the contrary, this is an important problem that we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e123	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e126	On a case-by-case basis, the Government has put difficult asylum cases on hold — instead of being consistent and making final decisions. The media hit the hunger strike in the Afghans. They're still here. We have seen several issues where parents use their children to stay in Norway. The government has postponed the handling of cases to all families where the children have been here for more than three years. The Iraqis, the so-called MUFs, are going to have their cases re-examined – that is, another postponement. In addition, the consideration of the proposal for a new law on foreigners is deferred. Although the media press in such matters is large, it is not very humane to keep people waiting for years. It is important to listen to critical voices, but even more important is to have a decisive government. Will the red-green government continue to pursue a media-driven policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e135	I am a little uncertain about what the representative means by ‘media-driven policy’. What the Government is concerned about is pursuing a consistent and fair refugee and immigration policy. For this reason, the Government often takes the burden of individual matters that the media often feel ought to do, or change, the decision in which we choose not to change the decision – precisely because we believe it is important to have a consistent and fair asylum and refugee policy. There are many examples of this. We also see that there are often difficult balances – heavy humanitarian considerations are weighed against the need for non-discrimination and consistency. We have a foreign law today – and we have regulations – that the Government practices. The main message is that people who have been persecuted will remain in Norway. People who do not need protection shall not be allowed to stay here. It is this policy that is at the root of it, and which this government is practicing, despite the fact that the media are sometimes critical of that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e147	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e150	Amongst the people — typically 20,000 — who live illegally in Norway, there is a group of unreturnable asylum seekers. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that those who are being rejected should be sent home – in the cases in which it applies. But then there's a group that can't go home. They're so-called unreturnable. At the Dale asylum reception in Sandnes it sits approx. 80 people that are irreversible. They cannot be coerced home, they are not allowed to stay, they are not allowed to work – and they remain on hold this year after year. That they should sit there and wait, isn't it an unworthy treatment of people? They cannot travel to their home country. They don't have the economy to settle for themselves. They want to work, but they're not allowed. Can the Prime Minister say anything about the proposal for a new foreign law? Would you like to include there a dignified treatment of the unreturnable? Isn't there a limit on how long people should wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e161	I very much agree that those who are irreversible are an important question and a big dilemma. We're separating two groups of undetectables. One is those who cooperate and try to get a return, but who still don't get it. The other is those who do not cooperate and are therefore irreversible. I think the last group is a completely different group than the first. The first group is people who actually try, but who don't get it because the home country can't accept them. These include: this question we are going to deal with in a new law on foreigners. I think it is wrong to present the law before it is finished, but we are concerned that people should sit as short as possible in asylum recipients, and that they should be integrated or returned as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e170	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e173	We all agree that this is a problem. It's about the rights that these people have, that they live in society without the possibility of having the duties and the rights that we ordinary citizens have. The group that this may go beyond is the children who disappear from Norwegian asylum recipients. It is many unaccompanied minor asylum seekers who have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients. And what's creepy is that for children who are lawless in a society, it opens up even worse perspectives, like that. exploitation. So we have a society where there are some kids who don't have school rights or anything else. My challenge to the Prime Minister is, when he's started such a job, why don't you start with the kids? Why don't you start by being able to make sure that any child who disappears from Norwegian asylum recipients has to be tracked until you're sure that the fate of that child is made clear, and that you do everything you can to ensure that the child has the rights and duties that a person should have in a society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e182	I agree that the question now raised is also an important one, and that there is an important moral question about how we treat lone minors who come to Norway and who live in Norwegian asylum centres. Once again, I think it is important to have a procedure as quickly as possible – to clarify where the parents are and whether they can be reunited with their parents. The second is the question of how to deal with them as long as they are in the reception of asylum in Norway or stay in Norway. The Government Parties, in cooperation with the Stortinget, have decided that, in the case of the youngest single minors on reception of asylum, child protection should now take over the responsibility. It is precisely because we believe that child protection will have a greater opportunity to follow up on individuals — ensuring the individual living and good conditions in Norway. We think it's a way of solving the problems that we know are linked to the fact that many single minors are in Norwegian asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e189	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e192	It is a problem that more and more asylum seekers leave the asylum recipients and go underground. The number is increasing. We have been estimated by the police to show that only for Oslo's part there are several thousands who live at an unknown address and who do not have a legal residence in Norway. Gradually, this will be an unmanageable problem if we do not take action and do something about it. Other countries have done something about it. Other countries are trying to gain control of this. by introducing closed receipts. My question to the Prime Minister is this: Is the Government willing to look at closed reception as a solution to prevent people from going underground, at least in relation to those asylum seekers who can represent a security risk, such as, among others, The Netherlands has introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e199	Firstly, it is quite right that there is a problem that a large number of asylum seekers leave the receptions and stay in Norway without a legal basis, i.e. that people who do not have a legal residence are in the country anyway. I agree that it is an important task to get them returned. Then it's clear that people we think are a safety risk, there are specific reasons to follow. We've also strengthened the rules and the handling of that. We've also made our own rules for some receptions, just for those that we're busy with to be returned. I agree that this is a problem. We are in the process of stepping up the measures, including: by strengthening the UDI. We believe that no one who commits criminal acts should go free. They have to be punished like everyone else who commits criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e206	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e209	I want to come back to the representative that Siv Jensen did not ask about instead, namely the question of options in Telenor. Several media headlines show that option programmes in several state-owned companies have been involved in retreatment and discussion during spring general meetings without any intention from the government representatives. The interesting thing is that what is being documented today by the Net newspaper is that the entire option program on which we have a daily discussion in the media – with furious representatives of the red-green government, etc. – was established when Jens Stoltenberg was Prime Minister. It is an option programme linked to the listing and introduced in retrospect, and on 10 May 2001 the Telenor General Assembly authorised the Governing Board to introduce a share option programme. The board decided that the share option programme should be made available from the start to 75 top management members and other key personnel. The total number of share options awarded each year during the programme would be about 3 million. kr. This means that the framework for this large programme was laid when Jens Stoltenberg was Prime Minister. What has happened in retrospect is that Telenor has become a success after the stock exchange listing. The profits and financial outflows of this option programme have increased, because the Telenor leadership and the entire Telenor, with all the employees, have led to an internationalisation. The listing has strengthened and has been a success for the company. But then my question is: How can Jens Stoltenberg meet himself in the door with the play he has come with, where he morally finds it reprehensible that management accepts options he has given them?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e221	It is quite right that under changing governments, both under the previous government and under the previous government I was leading, there have been option programs in companies where the government owns. It's no big deal to get it on the table. It's been in annual reports, it's been full publicity around it. What we have seen, on the other hand, is that the option programs have become much more shy. They've evolved and degenerate in a way that I think a lot of people are responding to. That's also why this government has said that here we need to change the rules, here we need to change the policy. When you see that something develops in the wrong direction, you can either sit still and say that we shouldn't change our mind, or you can say that there's something going wrong here, and then we change our policy. We're making a new policy on options. That is the message of the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is the message of the bill we first sent to the hearing and then sent to the Stortinget. The fact that we are now tightening up the policy in relation to the past is clearly the reason why we are doing it. When we do that, for two reasons: one is that we believe that the size and extent of the options we see now are completely unreasonable. The other one is that we think it's very important that it's neat. That's why we're doing this in a neat way. We do not intervene in individual matters, but we make a change to the law that means that the board no longer provides for such compensation, but the general meeting. And the state that is attending the general meeting is going to vote against the option programmes. It's a tightening of the policy, and we're proud of that. I am a little uncertain about what the Right believes – whether they are in favour of or against these option programmes – but it is crucial that there appears to be a majority on the Stortinget who want to tighten up the law and change the policy in this area. Telenor has become a success. I'm glad. That's why I'm glad we've organized Telenor so that it can be an internationally leading company, but there's no excuse for the kind of option program we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e232	I'd like to answer what we mean. Firstly, the Prime Minister knows very well that the change in the law that comes was sent to the hearing only during the previous government. And then there's an EU recommendation on the guidelines. This means that the previous government has been for the general meeting to draw up the remuneration guidelines and the type of systems. We're also going to vote for that. Then we're going to have a discussion about the content of the political issues. My question is more focused on the Prime Minister's media performance these days, where the Prime Minister, as a prime minister and at some point 100 pst. the owner of Telenor has agreed to the establishment of this programme, in the media being morally disgusted at the management of Telenor about accepting options as it is in fact he who has given them. Does the Prime Minister not think that this is a double communication, which is really quite reprehensible by a Prime Minister? And does he mean that kind of behavior benefits Telenor as a workplace and Telenor's further development?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e241	No, there's no double communication. It's a communication where we see that something has evolved in the wrong direction. That's why we have to tighten the rules. And there's a big difference between options programs. Some companies have had option programmes where, for example: says that the course must rise quite a lot before you get an option, and then there is a ceiling on, for example. one annual salary. The problem with the options programmes that the government has not established, but that the board has established, is that there is neither a floor nor a roof, and therefore they become so shy and as unreasonably good as these options programmes are. But precisely because we've seen it, we've said that instead of going into and defining the individual option programmes, we're making a whole new set of rules, that is, new, more stringent rules than we had before. So this is a new policy, because we've seen that reality is changing. And there are rules that make us not having this kind of option program in companies where the state is a heavy owner. Demonstrating that there is a new policy, I do not think there is any art, because the very reason why we are now making the new rules is that the old policy – with the old rules – was not strong enough. But that we mean something stronger now than we did before is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e252	Here too, the President will accept four follow-up questions – first, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e255	I agree with the Prime Minister that it may make sense to change the rules for option programmes. But a little bit of the problem facing this government is that they're running a public witch hunt at leaders of state companies. So it's not a way to pursue ownership policy. Driving ownership policies through the newspapers is rarely responsible, it's just populistic. In fact, I think the government should appear to be a clean and professional owner and deal with this by addressing these kinds of challenges and questions directly with the companies, directly with the leaders and directly with the governments, rather than allowing red-green politicians to say almost without goal and meaning on these matters – even without knowing what they are talking about. It makes sense to have a discussion about the level of options and the development of option programmes. My question to the Prime Minister is, does he think it makes sense with option programmes that include all employees in a company and not just top managers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e262	First of all, I would like to say that the very fact that we are busy doing this is the reason why we do it the way we do it: first, by submitting a bill to the Stortinget – in our opinion – which means that this authority will no longer be in the administration. The Board of Directors is no longer able to adopt such remuneration. Secondly, we warn that in a big message we will present new guidelines on how the state will act at the general meeting. It's reinforced, new guidelines. That's different guidelines than those we used to have. When the law is in place, and when the guidelines are in place, we will start to practice it at general meetings. That's a neat way. And we've been very specific that we haven't criticized individuals, but we've criticized schemes, and then we take responsibility for doing something with those arrangements. So it's an important clarification. It's that in some start-ups I think option programs can be useful. And we've also made that clear. In well-established companies, we believe that option programmes are not appropriate. Here we believe that bonus schemes are what you should use. That's why we're going to vote against option programs for everyone in well-established companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e269	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e272	It is good that the government takes over and takes a given with the unculture that has been developed with regard to the option program. But we had a discussion in connection with new option agreements last fall, and then both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry were challenged, but gave vague answers. The former Minister of Industry — and the current one — has said that the Government had not decided. Question 1 is: What time does the Government set what they should do with the option program? The next question is: in the evening post today we can read that Jusprofessor Geir Woxholth says that one of you has a code today that you can use. No need to wait for a new code. If the government is as determined as it says it is, why does the government not use the possibility that is already there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e281	We decided early on to do something about the rules for options, but we've used the spring to discuss different models. One model would have been to say that the state would only vote for options within a limited framework, for example. only one annual salary, two annual salary or something. There could be a possible option guideline that we could set out, and then it could be voted for at the general meetings. But after discussing different models of how we could imagine tightening up the rules for options, we found that the best way to tighten up was to abolish options. And it is absolutely right that we have discussed it. We've been using spring to do that, and then that's the conclusion of that discussion. What we're going to do is, first of all, clearly move the authority to the general meeting, but so important: we're going to say that we're going to exercise our power of ownership at the general meeting by voting against all options of the kind we've seen lately, i.e., no option arrangements in well-established companies. It gets to keep pay and bonus for top managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e289	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e292	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister, also as head of this government, is pleased that Telenor was organized so that it was a success. This means that the partial privatisation of Telenor is something that this government is also pleased about, because it has made Telenor a success. And we should all be happy about that. It also makes us have this a little bit exclusive problem, which I agree has to be solved. I have stood in this room and defended option agreements used correctly, namely in small, newly started companies, ICT companies, which are not able to compete for skilled labour, but which need to give employees an opportunity to earn little, but to earn more in the future, if they do a good job – preferably all employees. I would like the Prime Minister to meet me and say that the kind of option agreements we need to make also the modern, forward-looking companies, and then it's a problem that some people abuse a system and get unhealthy wages like what we've seen lately. The second is, as many may have been, the need for the Prime Minister to tighten up his entire parliamentary basis and government apparatus that these complex, large, sensitive, listed companies are governed in the right organs and not by media statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e302	These companies are governed in the right organs, they are governed by the fact that we make laws here, they are governed by the fact that we are presenting big shots where we say how we want to practice our ownership power at the general meeting. If there is something that we have been concerned about and that we have practised in this matter, it is cleanliness. I'm very happy that Telenor has become a successful company, there are many who are to have the credit for it. It gives us dividends and income to the country that we all use. I think it's a little funny to hear from a leader in the left that I'm going to refuse my big-time representatives to debate the state companies. It's very clear what the government thinks, we give notice at the general meeting and at the meetings where we meet the companies. But that there is a debate in the government parties, and that there are also strong reactions to the high wages and high remunerations some top executives in the business community have, I think, quite reasonable. I'm not going to put a lid on that debate. It is a liberal and good tradition in Norway that we agree to debate, and the public word change is served by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e311	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e314	Let me first say that we agree that leaders should show moderation, and the Right also agrees that there is reason to look at the legislation of these option agreements. What we now experience is a rather chaotic ownership policy, where the main rule seems to be media output. We saw last week how it weakened the value of Telenor. Stoltenberg emphasizes that he acts neatly. But when you're a nanny and a fiance for an option agreement, it's not neat to be morally disgusted that the same options are used. It's like giving a candy bag to the kids, and then then cutting them out because they've actually eaten up the candy. Does the Prime Minister at least see him acting with double standards in relation to the options programmes? Can the Prime Minister acknowledge that these questions have been raised at the general meetings of state-owned companies also in the current year, and that there has been confirmation that no changes were to be made to the current options programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e323	First of all, it's the government that adopts option programmes. It is absolutely right that there have been options programmes in state companies. It's been known to the public all along. We have seen that the options programmes have evolved in a completely unfair direction. When we see reality become that way, we do something new – we develop a new policy. That a government is able to design a new policy in areas where the world is changing, I don't think it's an expression of double morality, but an expression of the ability to act when something evolves in the wrong direction. We announced the change in the Soria Moria Declaration, we presented a bill in ours, now the bill is being adopted, and we are implementing both the law and the new guidelines for state ownership. It's an expression of action, nothing but that. The problem with top management wages in business is that first there is a good pay, then there are bonus schemes that relate to measurable results of managers' efforts. Up there again, there is the third element: options that often give great gains regardless of the efforts of leaders. The third element we're doing something with now, and I'm glad that there seems to be broad support for it in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e334	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e337	During the weekend, young people from all over the country were gathered in the Drammen to sum up the campaign ‘Really, now’. Youth encouraged other young people to drink less alcohol and to start drinking later. At the same time, young people encouraged adults to drink less on Christmas tables. Many children experience that their parents ’ alcohol abuse destroys their childhood. Studies show that more than 200,000 children are shying around Christmas because of adult alcohol abuse during the holidays. A cross of thought in this regard is that when Finland lowered its alcohol taxes, the figures for domestic violence shot in the weather. Domestic violence is not a private matter. No matter where and how violence happens, it's to think of it as a social problem. The physical and mental consequences for those who are subjected to violence and abuse are great. Domestic violence is often characterised by repeated over time, and the perpetrator is closely related to the victim, and there is a clear link between violence and alcohol use. More than 100,000 children are subjected to family violence, either directly or indirectly, as a witness to the fact that their father or mother is a victim of violence. Minister of Justice Storberget said to the evening post yesterday that we need a people's movement against this terror at home. What is the Prime Minister's answer to the 200 000 children who are afraid of this Christmas that we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e346	I fully agree that alcohol abuse is a major social problem, and that it is particularly bad for the children affected. And I think we often underestimate the problem. We are concerned about other drug problems that are also serious, for example: drugs. But the big, big problem in Norway is alcohol. It hits very, very many people, and it makes many people unhappy. We also know that increased access increases the number of addicts. Unfortunately, I do not have a single answer. If I had, we would have eliminated the problem. But there's probably a lot of different answers. One answer is that as adults, as community leaders, we have a responsibility to get up, talk about it, raise awareness and create attitudes that make us tougher in the fight against alcohol and alcohol abuse. The second is that I believe it is right that we have a restrictive alcohol policy in Norway with wine monopoly and with relatively high alcohol prices. It can be shown to contribute to the reduction of abuse. I myself have spoken to the Finnish Prime Minister several times, and he is deeply concerned about the outcome of what they did in Finland. A sharp reduction in taxes led to a marked increase in the misuse of alcohol, as well as more crime, more violence. We must seek to avoid getting into the situation that Finland has been in. We also need to strengthen auxiliaries, crisis centres, child protection, the kind of institutions, and non-governmental organisations that do work for those who are subjected to domestic violence and abuse as a result, among others. alcohol abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e357	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer so far. I very much agree that we underestimate the major problems of family violence and too much alcohol use among parents for our children. Now, Sylvia Brustad has come with an alcohol policy play. It's getting more poles, and a pole in each municipality. If we agree that violence and violence caused by alcohol abuse are not a private matter, I think the most important thing for all children to enjoy Christmas is to do something quite concrete here, and to have solidarity with the vulnerable groups, which still count 200,000 children. The Bondevik II government had a number of family policy measures going on, and then I want to ask the Prime Minister: How does this government work family policy to make it easier for parents to make their children safe in connection with the upcoming Christmas celebration?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e366	I think that some of the most important and basic things here are the good welfare arrangements. That we, for example, have a good school, good schooling, parental leave and kindergarten, is one of the most important things to strengthen the family and make the family more capable of coping with difficult situations, such as: alcohol abuse. In terms of more targeted action, there is – as I was in my previous response – child protection, there are crisis centres and there are NGOs. Through a good dialogue with the Christian People's Party in the last month, we have strengthened the voluntary organizations, and we have among other things. reinforced measures as a life course and also other measures aimed at strengthening the family and thus also enabling it to cope with difficult situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e373	There will be three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e376	I think all the parties in this room are looking to reduce alcohol abuse in this country. I also believe there is a cross-political consensus that the attitudes of children and young people are very important in this respect. In the context of an agreement between the Progress Party and the previous Bondevik Government, the Youth Campaign ‘Relaxed, now’ was launched, a youth-oriented campaign aimed at young people just to try to influence young people through their own channels and not through attitudes from adults who are sloping at the head of young people. This is a campaign that has been developed and is being implemented. I ask the Prime Minister the following: Can it now be time – instead of running a brief scare campaign for three to four weeks, as one has done – to try out this campaign developed by young people and targeting young people, and let it go for a few years, just to see that this kind of campaign can work, and not just run a scare campaign that obviously doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e384	The answer to that question is yes, in the sense that I believe it is a measure that is worth considering. I do not know enough about the evaluation and experience of the ‘Relax, now’ campaign, but there is no doubt that an important tool for combating alcohol abuse, especially targeting young people, is awareness-raising and information work. If, in cooperation with young people, we can make more permanent actions, at least the government believes it is right to assess it, and I will discuss it with the responsible state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e389	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e392	Very many of the children with whom the representative Davøy was involved have mental problems because of violence and parental alcohol abuse and need psychiatric treatment. While Stoltenberg has been Prime Minister, the waiting time for children and young people in need of mental health protection has increased considerably. Despite this, Stoltenberg reduces its mental health efforts, with an increase of 300 million. kr less than that provided by the previous government, according to Stoltenberg's own budget. In addition, the Government has sent out a proposal that mentally ill children can wait up to three months before receiving treatment. It is irresponsible and unacceptable in our opinion. Now the Prime Minister has given priority to treatment for those who have a job. The prime minister will also provide mentally ill children with the same opportunities, such as: by making use of available psychologists and psychiatrists in the private sector, so that these children can receive more rapid treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e397	All serious mental disorders are serious, but it is of course extra serious when it affects children. That is why a broad majority of the Storting has adopted the psychiatry escalation plan, and it is being followed up. I mean, it's about 700 million. kr, at least a significant increase in the budget we have proposed for 2007. That means we're going to expand the treatment capacity even within psychiatry in 2007. It is quite right that the waiting time within psychiatry is increasing, but the paradox is that there is a sharp increase in treatment provision at the same time. This is linked to the fact that, when we get to the point of strengthening the treatment provision in psychiatry, we're discovering bigger problems. More people get treatment, however, the waiting times increase because the problem is larger than what you had on the table before. We look at the possibilities of providing a waiting guarantee for young people with mental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e406	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e409	We are talking here about children who may be silent witnesses because they experience violence, intoxication and mental illness. We can experience that children are being subjected to psychological violence, and we know that children can also come into a situation where they themselves are subjected to abuse. My experience in this area is that yes, it is important to have the right heads, yes, it is important that we have the important legislative measures. But what's absolutely crucial is that a culture is built between all those who stand up and are helpers, so that it helps, and so that they don't freeze into their roles and that we thus get the final result that the children are made into blackhouses. My experience is that then a head of government should see it as his responsibility to build this culture, so that a Minister for Children and Gender Equality, a Minister for Health and Care and a Minister for Justice and Home Affairs have back coverage. Does the Prime Minister agree with such an assessment of the management responsibility required here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e414	I agree. I agree that it is a task for a prime minister to build a culture in a government for the responsible state councils that helps the entire psychiatry auxiliaries provide for those people with mental disorders. That's true of a lot of people, and it's serious for all groups, but especially serious for children. The previous government and this government are stepping up their efforts. It proposes several hundred million dollars for psychiatry in the 2007 state budget. But what we've seen is that as the stakes escalate, there is an ever-increasing need. It means that there are a lot of people who in the past didn't have any offer, who at least start getting an offer right now. It is both about money and about capacity, but it is also about values and attitudes, and about removing prejudices about mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e421	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e424	We are getting increasingly alarming signals from Norwegian businesses about the lack of labour and pressure in the economy. Last night the NHO submitted a report saying that there are now 100,000 unoccupied jobs in Norwegian companies. We hear stories about public buildings being offered, where no one sees himself able to make offers because they do not have enough capacity. There is a call for warnings from different teams. We read about bank economists who fear that we are going towards a price increase, and that it is the valve that is going to relieve the Norwegian economy by Norwegian jobs disappearing because Norwegian products become too expensive, and that we will quickly get into an evil circle. I have to admit, I am a little surprised when the government last Friday came up with its changes in the state budget, which was about spending more money, which in isolation is always for good purpose, but which can do harm when they come to the top of all this, and where they warned that a, among other things. will spend more than $1 billion on municipalities. I sat and listened to the radio when the government representative, the municipal minister, said that it was now for the municipalities to add new people, because now they got the money to do it. It made me deeply concerned. Because I've been to a good school. I have learned from former competent finance ministers, such as Sigbjørn Johnsen and Jens Stoltenberg, that we must not leave all this pressure in monetary policy to the central bank or the social partners. Financial policy must do its part in the job. Is not the Prime Minister concerned when the signals are such, if he has made the right financial policy he proposes for 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e433	I think it is good that the representative Sponheim is concerned about the situation in Norwegian business and Norwegian economy. At the same time, I believe that it is always a little dangerous to mention that there is a shortage of labour, as a problem, and that it gives cause for concern, because it is clear that although it may be a problem for individual enterprises, it is at the same time an expression that we succeed with something very fundamental, namely that unemployment is low. Unemployment in Norway is now lower than in very many years. We have more people at work – a new record in employment. It is good for many individuals, and it is good for Norwegian economy. We'll be able to both create and share values when many people are at work. It's the total use of money that decides. It is true that this government is making more money available to municipal hospitals, to municipal elderly centres, to municipal schools, to many other public welfare, kindergartens and care for the elderly. But it's possible for us because we don't spend money on tax bills. As far as I can see, several of the opposition parties on the Stortinget are now repeating what they were doing when they were in position, namely using billions of dollars at lower taxes. Then there will also be demand. There will also be pressure in the Norwegian economy. We say that it is better to involve private demand so that it does not increase so much, and that we rather spend that money on elderly care, school and kindergartens. We do that because we're concerned that the total pressure in the economy should not be too high. So we don't spend any more money, but we spend the money differently. We have also made sure to follow the budgetary policy guideline, namely that we should use oil money equivalent to 4 pst. by the Pension Fund. This government makes sure that we are at that level, while the previous government was significantly above 4 pst. That is why I have a good conscience for the balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e444	I'm probably a little surprised that the Prime Minister doesn't let there be a certain opening for unrest in this situation, where almost everyone else who thinks about it expresses concern. I have even heard the Prime Minister stand in this room and say that one penny used in the municipal sector is more expansive than one penny used elsewhere. We're about to enter a round of events that's about getting a strange interest rate increase next year. It gives us a pressure on the dollar rate, which in turn means that private companies will go down. Then perhaps the prime minister has achieved what he wants, namely to wind up private businesses and industry and get more people into the municipal service sector. But it's not certain that it's sustainable over time, because we need someone to tax in order to spend money in the public sector. It's this imbalance that I think gives rise to some anxiety. It surprises me that the Prime Minister, as a social economist and former Minister of Finance, does not feel a small element of unrest and at least can say that the Government will follow this closely and, if necessary, make necessary tightenings throughout the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e454	I would like to say exactly what the representative Sponheim now said, that I feel a small and certain element of unrest. I think it's always a good idea to have it anyway, especially when it's going well, because it's just when things go up, at the top of a high economy, we easily make the mistakes that create a new downturn and a powerful setback. Therefore, of course, I feel a certain element of unrest. What I was trying to do was to nuance the picture, because next to the turmoil, you just have the joy that there is so low unemployment. But one reason why we're holding back and, among other things, does not promise billions in tax bills and promises more money for some of the purposes for which people want even more money, it is precisely that we are committed to ensuring a good development in the Norwegian economy. It's true that the interest rate is going up. This is in line with what the Bank of Norway has been predicting for a long time. For example, in the spring of 2005, in the inflation report, they predicted an interest rate trend similar to the one we are now seeing. We follow developments closely and will adapt economic policies to developments in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e463	In order to accommodate all the main issues, the President will now limit it to two follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e466	I note that the Prime Minister boasts that the so-called rule of action is now being followed. However, the Progress Party notes that since the rule was introduced in 2001, the rule has not been followed at all, nor does the sitting government choose to follow it entirely slavely – so all confidence in the rule clearly does not have the Government. In connection with the question raised by the main questioner, which goes on interest, I have found that the Minister of Finance has for a long time warned people against taking up too much loans. She's worried that interest rates can increase a lot, and that people then have a problem serving their loans. The Progress Party believes that most people actually make sensible, good decisions and assessments in relation to their own economy. But what I'm asking for is the power of action from the Government if you're now worried about people's private finances. If there's something that matters to most people, it's actually what you have left in your wallet when all bills and loans are paid. This is because, in particular, the increase that the Government is making in the level of taxes will have a very strong impact on the economy of those with particularly low and medium incomes. Will not the government then consider cutting heavily in the fees, so that it can give a handshake to ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e475	First of all, 19 out of 20 economists believe that if something was carried out that was close to the policy of the Progress Party, there would be a sharp increase in interest rates, a sharp decline in Norwegian private business and, subsequently, a weakening of the basis for financing elderly care, health care and many other welfare goods in Norway. Hearing that the Progress Party is worried about interest rates is a bit funny. Their policies would lead to a sustained sharp increase in interest rates, if they spent as much money as the Progress Party has proposed on a number of occasions. Secondly, I am in charge of purchasing power, and it is therefore nice to note that purchasing power is increasing for all income groups. It also does so after account has been taken of price increases and changes in charges. People have more to walk with this year than last year, and they're going to have more to route with next year than they have this year. This is because we have a wage increase that is higher than the price increase, even when account is taken of tax changes. As far as the rule of action is concerned, it's a wise rule that makes us run the Norwegian economy in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e484	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e487	It might have been interesting to ask a question to the professional economist Jens Stoltenberg. But he is not the one who is meeting here today, but the politician and the Prime Minister. In fact, according to the government's own assessment, this budget is so weakly expansive, and in such good times as we now have, the usual economic lesson is that we should not have expansive budgets at all. You should have had either neutral or someone who withdrew a bit. What does this mean? Well, that in practice means that this budget is going to increase the pressure on interest rates a little more. The interest rate is going to go up faster than if you had spent a little less money, and you're going to build down the competitive sector a little faster than you would if you had a more neutral budget. I'm concerned that higher interest rates are some of the most generationally unfair things you can have. In fact, it is the young people in the start-up phase that will be affected by this. That's why you should stimulate saving. Kristin Halvorsen said before the summer that in good times you should spend a little less money than the rule of action suggests. Does the Prime Minister not agree with his Finance Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e498	First, I would like to say that professional economist Jens Stoltenberg believes exactly the same thing as Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. And that's because professional economist Jens Stoltenberg – or student Jens Stoltenberg – read a book by Ragnar Frisch called "Introduction to Production Theory", where Ragnar Frisch just makes it clear that there is an important interaction between what he calls cause and assessment, that professional judgements are important, but that they are worthless if they are not linked to an assessment of what is possible in a political framework. For any sensible professional, other considerations will always be considered. That's the one. The second is that we are pursuing a policy that means that we are following the guidelines of the Right and the Labour Party are in agreement on budgetary policy, namely that we are going to use 4 pst. by the Pension Fund. We're at that level. The previous government was significantly above that level. Also under the previous government, Norway’s Bank announced that we would have interest increases. There is strong growth in the Norwegian economy, there are interest rate increases in other countries, and it is essential to avoid a sharp rise in interest rates and a sustained, significantly higher level of interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e505	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e508	Under-funding in the defence sector is spreading a great deal of uncertainty. So in the proposal for next year's budget, there is a deficit of SEK 1.5 billion to reach today's level of activity. Of course, uncertainty affects the order, it affects the defence staff, it affects their families, and it also affects many communities. At the same time, there are many leaks to the media assessing which marine military facilities are to be closed, which aircraft bases are to be closed and which cablings are to be closed. At the same time, the Minister of Defence is pulling around the country and the beach and saying that everything will last, and that in some cases it may need to be strengthened. The problem here is that with the underfinancing you have, you can get a different defence structure than the Stortinget has adopted. Luckily, Chief of Defense Dennen has taken the magazine out of his mouth and given a clear description of the situation facing the defense. Is the Prime Minister in agreement with the description of the reality of Mr Dien?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e515	First, I would like to say that the defence budget is NOK 31 billion. It's a very large amount, and it's fully possible to have a significant investment in Defense within NOK 31 billion. For example, in our draft budget, we have ensured that with the 31 billion DKK we propose next year, it will be possible to increase operational activity in all defence sectors. It will also be possible to increase bets in the northern regions, for example: more sailing days, so that through NOK 31 billion we get a lot of defense, and we also get increased activity, not least in the north. The second is that we have reduced a wide-ranging selection to assess and advise on the new defence plan, and then we will make the necessary assessments. Then the head of defense's input is also part of that basis. The defense study from the head of defense will be part of the basis we need when we're going to make a new defense plan, but it's the Stortinget and the Government that define the defence structure here in the country. The amount is not SEK 1.5 billion, but we are DKK 0.5 billion below the agreed defence framework. It's less than what you added to the plan. So it's not like there's a dramatic decrease in relation to the 31 billion allocated for next year. It's not new either that you're a few hundred million. kr below the limits set out in the defence plan. We have a significant commitment to defence, secure increased activity in the defence sectors, and will discuss structural changes in defence in a tidy and calm manner through the range that has been reduced, and then we will return to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e524	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. It is true that 31 billion is granted, but the question is whether it is enough in relation to the activity that the Storting has previously decided. It's not. Here it is a significant underfinancing. It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that a sample has been set up to come back with proposals on what structure we should have in the future, and that the Stortinge should deal with it, but it belongs to a slightly different debate after all. What is now recorded is that the level of activity is so low that there is strong speculation and an uncertainty spread across the country about the defence. Does the Prime Minister think it was right for Denen to make the statements he made? I have registered that there are very many now who want to throw Dien. Can the Prime Minister just assure me that Denen is safe, despite his playoffs in which he describes the situation in the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e534	The government has no plans at all to replace the head of defense. There is also a responsibility on the defence manager to explain what he thinks the situation is. That's what the Chief of Defense did. The government will then assess the recordings and assessments of the head of defence, together with the position of the Defence Policy Committee, and then we will normally present our proposal for a new defence plan, so that it can be adopted from 2008. That's the way these things are handled. 31 billion is about what is the framework of the defence plans, and we are funding the plans that have been adopted. So there's also room for increased activity. Then we will have the discussion about structure at regular intervals, but then I think it's important that we take it on the basis of the best possible professional judgements, and that's what we're going to get, among other things. through the broad range of defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e541	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e544	I think the Prime Minister is very much 'about', when he believes in all areas that you are about where you should be. It is therefore the case that the Workers' Party and the three former government parties made a defence settlement in the previous period, which was structured and based on a settlement that had also been concluded from the past, where there was agreement on the structure. That structure is not now financed, and it is even less funded in the draft state budget submitted. At least there's almost 500 million missing. kr. In addition, it is stated in the bill from the Department that you do not reach the migration targets, and then you really lack even more money. Then I think it's amazing that the Prime Minister chooses to stand here and say "about" and "increased activity". What is the main problem of defence is that politicians have wanted more activity, they have given less money. This government believes they should have more activity, but it gives less money. And then finally, you end up not having a defense that works. Doesn't the Prime Minister think it's a matter of concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e553	I agree that it is worrying that the Stortinget and the Government in many areas are adopting plans and not always as good as funding them. But I think the Right sometimes exaggerates the basis of his concern. I remember when we presented the defence plan in spring 2001. Then the Right said that it was the used rifle policy. Shortly afterwards, they agreed on the same framework for defence and thought it was excellent, but they couldn't even finance those frameworks. They were under the common gun policy at the level of funding. It's true that we're laying a few hundred million. DKr below. It had clearly been an advantage for the defense if this money had been there, but the previous government was also in the situation that they did not fully manage to fund the defence plans. The more important it is that we succeed in transformations. Even though we're a few hundred million. kr below, however, there is 31 billion kroner, which is a significant amount, and which allows us to increase activity in important areas. What has been put at risk is some investment. The activity is continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e560	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e563	There's another aspect that's been left hanging after the Chief of Defense's speech, and it's an impression that the Chief of Defense might not fully agree with the government's priorities of the importance of the North. The left has understood that the Government is rightly concerned with the northern regions in any way: security policy, environmental policy, resource policy and industrial policy, and that they have had a fair, good and broad commitment to this. It will cause me and the Left to worry if, in the long run, the head of defence is thinking differently about the geopolitical importance of the north than what our current government is doing. Can the Prime Minister assure me and Stortinget that the head of defence has the understanding of the importance of the North regions for Norway, that he simply acknowledges that we are in our position, and that this is something we can expect to lay the foundation for defence policy considerations in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e570	First of all, I think it's important just to establish that it's the Stortinget and the Government that decide how to set up the Norwegian defence, what to prioritise, where to bet, and how much to bet. The Storting and the Government have decided that there should be a heavy military presence in the northern regions. Budgets have also been adopted so that we can now escalate, for example. Coast Guard presence. Budgets have been adopted so that we now buy frigates to be present in the northern regions. The debate on fighter aircraft, which has not been concluded – you work with it after all – will also be about military presence in the northern regions. In any case, the Government and the Stortinget decide that there will be a heavy bet in the north from the Defence side. The Chief of Defence has expressed his views. We have to go through all of these positions when we're going to make the new defence plan. And when we make the long-term plan of defence, we come back to the question of further structural changes in defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e577	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e580	At the end of this questioning session, I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to raise his eyes a little higher than the other things. There's a church meeting on Hafjell these days, but we're going to be higher than Hafjell, too. On this occasion, the Minister of the Church has sent out quite clear signals through the media — signal management has become very popular lately — that he can imagine that the state religion is also worthy of protection in the 21st century. At the same time, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, who is also the head of one of the government parties, has expressed the old idea that the Norwegian Church is different from all other churches in Christendom by saying that it cannot be governed by anyone other than the King, if it is to be right. The reason for this should be that it is the political government that ensures that the Church is the way it should be. Now, however, the minister of the Church is not elected by the people. The Minister of the Church has been appointed by the Prime Minister, and in this case the Prime Minister, under the provisions of the Constitution, is excluded from taking part in the handling of church affairs at all, which he is of course well aware of. Does not the Prime Minister think that this calls for a long way to go that a state religion is a phenomenon that has not just expired but in the millennium? And is the prime minister of the belief that it is little natural for a social democratic party to go in to protect a state religion in a society otherwise based on democratic principles and not on the rule of the monarchy of the empire?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e593	I thank you for a good question that makes us have to raise our eyes and think far ahead, but we also have to look back, because this is about some of our historical identity. That's why it's an important question, and precisely because it is, we've also had the Green Committee. We have thought that it is not time for sound conclusions but for a broad debate. I welcome the broad debate. We have it in most of the parties. We also have it internally in the Workers' Party. Some believe that the state church should be completely abolished, others believe that the state church should be maintained, and others believe that an intermediate solution must be found, which is similar to the majority position of the Gjønnes Committee, that one should still have a law of his own for a Norwegian church, but not continue the state church system of the day. I think it's a point in itself that you don't make fast conclusions. I believe that it is a point in itself that you listen to the debate both in the public, in the parties and in the Church itself. We see from the hearing opinions that come in from the churches that there are very different views, and at least that's not a clear advice we get from there. Traditionally, social democracy has been a defender of the state church, because it is believed to help secure a broad people's church. That is what social democracy has meant for at least decades. So social democracy and the Workers' Party have a capacity to also change and develop positions when required. That is why I think it is right that we now have a debate. I'm not going to conclude that debate right now. The Government shall do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e600	I thank you for your answer. I am reassured as far as I interpret the answer to that it is not the Prime Minister who has instructed the Minister of the Church to send out the smoke signals that the minister of the Church is now sending. I also interpret it there that the Government has not yet started this discussion at all, but I believe that the broad consultation round to which it has been put should be able to be completed without sending overly clear control signals from the top of the system. The fact that I took part in the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, is to be remembered that the broad majority, including the cross-political, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, was the idea that it is reasonable to continue the element of popular government, that is, the legislative task of the Grand Duchy, in relation to the framework of the Norwegian Church, but that it is reasonable to conclude the State religion itself, that is to say, the Royal Council of Churches, which is based on the fact that the head of state and the head of religion are one and the same. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] That is where I would like to interrupt the Prime Minister: does he believe that a state religion is a valid phenomenon in the 21st century? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e608	I will come back to that when I have listened to the debate and listened to many different good professional, political assessments of how we should organise church issues in the future. But one of our dilemmas is that although there was a broad majority, including a broad political group, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the hearing opinions of the Church are so far not unambiguous in that direction. On the contrary, as far as I understand it, it is currently a majority in the other direction. In any case, the notifications and hearing opinions are not so unambiguous. That means we're facing an important and exciting debate, and I think we're going to take it easy. No decisions have been made in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e615	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e618	I notice that the Prime Minister in this matter is very concerned about listening – listen to the hearing bodies, listen to what others may think, and that he himself does not want any opinion on the matter until he has listened to everyone else. Then this could be a very good case for referendums. Then one would really have been given the opportunity to listen to what the inhabitants, the Norwegian people, actually think about the state church as an institution, whether they think that the Church might be able to vitalize, create spaces and arenas for believers on a completely different level, in a completely different system than within the state church we know today. If the Prime Minister is serious that he will listen, could he not also consider putting the matter to a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e625	In a lot of questions, I think it's important to listen, at least for a period of time. Then one should eventually decide and be more concerned with conveying a message or a conclusion. It's not like in every question where I think it's important to listen, I'm necessarily a popular voter. These include: is a state church challenge, is that we want to try to find a common solution. And we know from experience that referenda rather helps to intensify conflicts, intensify contradictions. So I listen in many things, but it's rarely I go in for a referendum. In the EU case, I listened a little. There was a referendum, and it didn't go so well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e632	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e635	To the last: there are divided opinions about whether or not it went well! There is an important question that is addressed, and I think that the debate that is going on shows that there are many who are happy in the Church. I am reassured to hear that the Prime Minister will take it easy, that he will listen and take good time on these questions. But at one point, the government runs a little fast off the farm, because economics is also a question within the Norwegian Church and its future. What we now experience is that the Government will change the principles of the Information Society's fund, that they will use it for, among other things. financing medieval churches. They also report other changes to the state budget that are now on the table. I would ask the Prime Minister to consider whether this is not a matter that should be added to the overall review we are going to have of the relationship between state and church, so that we don't now start taking any pieces that are also about the economy of this church.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e644	We're talking about the Information Society's fund in the state budget. This means that the matter is now in Stortinget. The government has no plans to change the proposals and wording we have in the State budget. The big business is now going to discuss it in peace and power. I really think that's all I have to say about this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e649	That concludes the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e667	I want to first clarify the back cover of this interpellation, so that we get a debate on what's the topic, and not on what's the fear. We see that the world is facing an increase in energy consumption, while there will be an increasingly scarce supply of energy sources. This is likely to result in higher energy prices and could be a root cause of conflict. The only way we can solve it in the long term is by increasing the energy supply in the world. That is why I want a debate on thorium, the element of which we have large quantities in Norway, and which has a significant energy content. 1 tonne of thorium is equivalent, as said in the interpellation, to 3.7 million tonnes of coal in energy. It can replace today's uranium-based nuclear power station and today's coal-fired power station. When we look at projections for the future, it is the type of power plant that will be built. This interpellation is not meant to be a criticism of today’s research into CO2 management. It is not meant as a wish, a hidden desire, to build a uranium-based nuclear power plant in Norway, just so it's made clear. If one takes a single calculation, one sees that the world's energy consumption is increasing by approx. 2-3 pst. annual. That's the experience of the last ten years. At the same time, 1.6 billion people are out of power. It's a situation that's not acceptable, neither for the ones involved, nor for the more prosperous part of the world. The availability of stable and reasonable energy is essential in order to improve conditions in the world's poor country. Energy supply will be a challenge in both an industrial, a power, a wealth and not least an environmental perspective. If the world’s energy consumption continues to grow at today’s pace, and the world’s developing countries – not least China, India and Brazil – will rise at the same level of wealth as, for example, China, India and Brazil. Norway has, over the next hundred years, increased world energy consumption by at least five times today’s consumption. If we think we're getting good action around the world, we can say four times today's consumption. But it's still a formidable challenge. All forecasts indicate that this increase in energy consumption will be met by fossil fuels. Coal, oil and gas will be the core of energy growth in the industrialised areas. It is the most reasonable technology, and it is therefore quite natural for countries in the development phase to use this technology. These countries also have no requirements for climate obligations, nor are they likely to be interested in using money to clean up emissions locally in order to get economic progress moving. Then you can say that you have large fossil resources available in the world. Yes, according to Today's Business for today we have coal for 220 years based on today's consumption. But if the consumption is four times higher in 100 years, you don't have 120 years left. Then you probably already used up what you found. Then, of course, moving villages in the Czech Republic, as you have planned, is to gain access to coal. You can try to drain the North Sea to access coal below it. But it's starting to talk about environmental interventions that I think are unacceptable to most people. China illustrates the situation. Economic growth in China contributes to higher energy prices in Europe. China is offensive in securing access to petroleum resources in Africa. China has gone from being a net exporter of coal to becoming a net importer. A coal-fired power plant in China is opened weekly without cleaning requirements. Helen Bjørnøy says to our country today that 500 new gas power plants will be planned in China. In China and India alone, 60 new nuclear power plants are planned. I believe that a policy approach to addressing the problem is, at best, naive when one knows what kind of population growth is on the globe, and that one will need significant amounts of energy only for food production and not least for clean water. Then it goes without saying that an ac is not enough – on the contrary. The fight for energy will be tougher. We already see the effects. Russia’s and Ukraine’s gas disputes recently show how this can be done. I don't think we're running out of coal and gas, but I think that the prices will eventually be so high that it will affect our material wealth, and especially the wealth of poor countries. The environmental aspect is also something a good one can discuss. One sees that very many researchers are concerned about CO2 emissions from increased coal and gas use. There is also no reason to believe that it will be cleaned on a large scale. So what do we do when we look at these enormous dimensions? That's what this is about. The oil consultant Robin West said at an OPEC seminar in Vienna recently: the main problem is that people have no idea how much fossil energy is used and how much is needed to replace it. It is not useful to talk about windmills and heat pumps in Norway. It contributes, yes, but it doesn't solve anything in this setting we're discussing right now. That is why I want Norway to look up and look at how we can actually contribute so that it monners in one area. It is good that Norway works with tides, wave power and solar cells, and that we work with wind and bioenergy. A mix of this is necessary, but we also have to accept that this isn't necessarily enough. All of these energy sources are not equivalent to the energy contribution we need globally. What do we see happening globally? Well, for the first time in history, the International Energy Agency, the IEA, says: Build more uranium-based nuclear power plants. It says that nuclear power is the only thing that today can make significant energy contributions if one ignores fossil fuels. The main reason is simple: the fear of climate change caused by CO2 emissions means that one has to look at alternatives. Our neighbouring countries are looking at nuclear power stations with new eyes. The EU will have to meet its energy needs by 30 pst. from nuclear power. In France, 80 pst. of the power generation based on nuclear power, in England it is the 20 pst, in Sweden it is the 50 pst. We know that Finland is building new nuclear power, and Sweden is extending the life span of its nuclear power. It causes many, including myself, to become concerned. Then I ask, can we provide an alternative to today's uranium-based nuclear power plant? They're getting safer, but there's still a risk with them. That is when I want us to take this debate on thorium power plants as an alternative. It is a much safer and, not least, a much more environmentally friendly type of nuclear power plant – it is simply a contribution to a smarter world. It solves many of the challenges of today’s nuclear power plant, and Norway should therefore take an initiative. Norway has large quantities of the element thorium. The amount of energy is, as I said, great. One needs 700 kg to operate a thorium power plant producing 9 TW with electricity and heat. It replaces a coal-fired power plant of 2.6 million tonnes of coal. There are three times greater thorium resources on the globe than there is uranium, and thorium is 250 times more effective than uranium. There has been a lot of research around this, especially initiated and driven by Nobel Prize winner Carlo Rubbia at CERN in Switzerland. I had the pleasure of meeting him last Friday. He has developed a thorium power plant powered by a particle accelerator, designed to make melting impossible. So one takes away one of the biggest challenges of today's nuclear power plant. There's no threat of terror at that type of power plant anymore. While uranium needs a brake to keep it running, thorium can't run running, because it needs a proton beam to keep it running. Cuts a proton beam, dies the whole process. One releases costly enrichment processes of uranium, and one releases large parts of the waste problem by actually injecting current plutonium waste from uranium-based nuclear power plants and incinerating it in a thorium power plant. The world's thorium reserves are estimated to last for several thousand years, and it's not attractive for nuclear weapons. In fact, more people are saying that the reason why it hasn't been researched in thorium is that it hasn't been interesting for the weapons industry. Researching one on uranium, getting both civil nuclear and nuclear power. Researching one at thorium, getting one only civil nuclear power, and then it's not interesting. The EU was involved in supporting this work in the 1990s and allocated 100 million. EUR for work, but when they came and asked for 500 million. The euro for the construction of a pilot plant was no. Many people would like to ask themselves why. I think the answer came from the National European Forum yesterday, which Mr Gahr Støre, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that in the 1990s there was no concern about the world's energy future. Then it wasn't the same attention around the disadvantages of coal. One calculated that the incidences were large, and one didn't have the same growth to take on. Now we see that the situation is different. Norway has a high level of competence. We have a lot of capital. We call ourselves an energy nation, and we have neighbors with uranium-based nuclear power plants. This means that Norway has great self-interest in developing this technology. The challenges of technology are not related to radioactive material but to the development of materials that withstand liquid lead up to 700 degrees and an accelerator that has a greater intensity than the current one. All the disciplines I've talked to, at CERN, the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen, have no objections to this. The cost will be 550 million. euro. The first question is whether the Council of State will be involved in organising a thorium conference in Norway, so that we can get more knowledge of the possibilities here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e725	Let me start by saying that it is positive that our future energy supply is addressed by an interpellation in this way, for there is no doubt, as the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has stressed several times in his contribution, that we are facing huge challenges in relation to a strong growth in energy demand globally. The latest report from the IEA, World Energy Outlook, emphasised with all clarity the need to address seriously the problems that increased fossil fuel use will impose on us in the decades ahead, that there is time for action now, and that this is not a problem we can postpone. In this way, it is very positive that this topic is being addressed. The same IEA report also stresses once again that nothing indicates that fossil fuel will not be the most significant part of our energy mix even in 2030 and in the foreseeable future, that most of the growth will come in relation to fossil fuels, and that the main challenges are linked to just how to deal with greenhouse gases from fossil fuels. I'll come back to that a little bit. The background to this interpellation is partly related to how to meet the world’s future energy needs and partly related to the topic of thorium as a resource. Thorium is also available in Norway. Considerable attention has been paid to the recent use of thorium for power generation. This attention has probably been based on two factors. Firstly, as already stated, how are future energy needs to be met without increasing consumption leading to strengthening climate challenges? Many believe that in this context power generation is from nuclear power, including nuclear power using thorium, a possible solution and part of the solution to be considered. It has also identified the IEA as a possible solution to the climate challenges already mentioned. A thorium-based nuclear power plant is said to be safer than a traditional power plant. It produces wastes that are degraded faster than the wastes from traditional nuclear power plants. This waste shall also be of little use in the production of weapons. The second point raised by those who believe this is a trace of follow-up is the potential economic and energy gain Norway can gain in this area, as Norway has the fourth largest known thorium reserve in the world after Australia, India and the United States. Many have said that this resource can provide great opportunities for increased value creation in Norway in the future. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, also in the light of this interpellation, has been in contact with the top experts at thorium in Norway to gain a clearer picture of thorium as a future energy resource and what kind of opportunities it may be for a Norwegian investment in this area. There is a lot of evidence that thorium power can have advantages compared to traditional nuclear power. The most important thing I have already mentioned. But on the other hand, there is no doubt that a thorium bet also has a number of challenges. Thorium also produces radioactive waste to be handled in line with normal nuclear waste. There is no operational experience with thorium power plants and the knowledge of thorium as a fuel and thorium cycle is very limited. There are no other countries, except India, that rate the use of thorium. The issues we are facing are, first of all, as the representative has already said, and as I said in my speech: how are we going to meet our future energy needs in the most environmentally friendly way possible? And is it so that Norway can sit on a large and valuable energy resource, thorium, in addition to the other great energy resources we are blessed with, with which, once in the future, energy production can be used in a more environmentally friendly way than today's nuclear power? The use of thorium, based on today's knowledge, I can of course not completely reject. But let me stress: the government's policy in this area is firm. Our perception is that the best way we can meet the energy needs of the future is to continue investing in renewable energy. In the perspective of World Energy Outlook and the IEA, renewable energy will make up a small share of energy supply in 2030 as well. But it's an area that has a great potential, provided you choose to bet heavily on this. We have great opportunities in solar energy. We have great opportunities in other areas. Sun is the fastest growing part of the energy sector internationally today, and is an area where in those parts of the world where we now have the strongest growth in the economy, there will be great benefits in using this kind of energy in the future. The same IEA report also states that based on the fact that fossil fuels will account for a very large part of the energy supply in 2030 and in the foreseeable future, CO2 management is one of the most important contributions to greenhouse gases. It is in the areas of further renewable energy investment and heavy investment in CO2 management that Norway really has the opportunity, even in the short term, to take the leading role that the Government intends to take. It is in these areas that the government's efforts will come in the years to come. We're already doing a lot of this, and that's also where we're going to put down our biggest effort. So just finally from my side: with the information that I have today, it's just to establish that a commitment to nuclear power, with the disadvantages and difficulties that this type of power generation involves, it's not relevant for the Government to follow such a trail as this. We will bet on renewable energy. We want to bet on the handling of CO2. On the other hand, it is also that as we own a large resource of thorium, it would be natural that we keep up-to-date with the evolution in the use of thorium for power generation. However, the Government will not take any initiative for Norway to take the lead in this area, as asked by the representative Solvik-Olsen, based on the simple fact that this type of nuclear power generation also has a number of the disadvantages of ordinary nuclear power generation and that renewable energy and CO2 management are areas where Norway has the opportunity to take the leading role that we should take in international energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e760	I thank the Minister of Oil and Energy for the contribution. Let me clarify a couple of things. This debate is not about solving Norway’s energy consumption in the short term – not that the Minister of Energy said so, but just that it has been resolved. A research and development project, possibly with the construction of a test facility, will go over a period of approximately two years. 15 to 20 years. So this is long term. We see that nuclear power plants are being built in our neighbouring countries, and even if we do not want nuclear power plants to be built based on uranium in Norway – I do not want them to – then the risk of accidents at uranium-based nuclear power plants in our neighbouring countries will be most likely to affect our environment in Norway. Then there is a question: How can we contribute? I believe that thorium power plants are in fact a contribution that, although one is not going to build anything in Norway, will be in our own interest. It is true that the projections show that fossil fuel will be the leading fuel in the future, but it is possible to try to change these projections. There may be other types of technologies that turn out to be far cheaper and far more accessible than we thought when the forecasts were first made. I believe that the forecasts made in ten years' time will show that thorium power plants have a much larger share of the world's energy supply than what you're now looking at. That's interesting and a lot of what's happening in terms of CO2 cleaning. But the cleaning of CO2 from coal or gas power plants does not bring any more energy into the globe – on the contrary, 15-20 pst are used. of the energy contained in coal and gas. That's why it's an environmental point, but it doesn't have much to do to secure the energy supply. The same applies to the hydrogen community, for which all of these are for. If you're going to create hydrogen, you're going to use energy in the process. The advantage is that you move the emissions and you can clean the emissions, but it doesn't bring any more energy into the globe. Solar cells are very exciting. It is worth noting that when Carlo Rubbia, who developed the nuclear power plant, did not receive political support, he went over to research solar cells. He says there are two things that can save the world's energy supply: solar cells and thorium power plants. The fact that he is now working with solar cells does not mean that he believes that thorium has become less relevant – rather on the contrary. So let's think about the waste problem a little bit. It's also here, but it's much smaller than at uranium-based nuclear power plants. When we see that only China and India are planning 60 plants, we should look at the difference. Five years of operation at thorium power plants will generate 3 tonnes of waste equivalent to half a cubic metre in volume. Only 180 kg of this will need long-term storage, and then we're talking about storage for up to 400 years. We're not talking about thousands of years anymore. After 400 years, the radioactivity from that waste is less than the corresponding radioactivity from coal-fired waste that has given the same amount of energy. That shows the potential of this, and that's why I'm asking again: although we're not going to commit ourselves to spending one penny on this, would the Council of State be willing to attend at least and arrange a conference on the subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e785	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen also underlined some of the important points in his contribution now in relation to the challenges we face, and the fact that developing thorium-based nuclear power plants is not part of today's solution, that if there is to be an alternative, there is a solution we are talking about in a twenty-year perspective. As a nation that is a major producer of energy, on the one hand, we have to recognise that we have limited resources in relation to what kind of tasks we should be able to undertake. We have undertaken great tasks both economically and humanly in developing the petroleum resource that we have access to, and we are spending a lot of money on research to make it as environmentally friendly as possible. I believe that, last and foremost, the question of energy supply is not a question of which energy sources we are using, but whether we are able to use it in an environmentally friendly way or not. And what the IAEA stresses, and as they make a clearer statement for this time than they ever did before, is that the most important thing to do now is to help manage CO2 emissions, because fossil fuels will make up so much of the future energy supply. Here we intend to spend a lot of resources. We've taken a lead in this area, and that's this area we'll focus on in the years to come. Then I agree with the heart of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen that it is also necessary to try to change the projections of the future energy development. I have to say that it is quite uplifting to hear that the Progress Party is also taking up such an attitude now, and acknowledges the climate problems that they have firmly denied for so many years. It's positive. The most important thing here is to follow the renewable track. It's not without reason that this scientist has concentrated on solar energy. He has seen that there is both a more environmentally friendly alternative and an alternative that has greater political upswing than other alternatives. So solar energy is an area where we have great opportunities globally, and the environment in Norway is already well ahead of us today. This should be given priority from the Norwegian side to the extent that we have the opportunity to move forward on that track. We're already in a positive position and, as I said, we have great opportunities. As I said in my first answer, I intend to follow developments and make sure that we have the necessary knowledge of developments in this area. But beyond that, I do not intend to take any initiative in the direction the representative asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e799	First of all, I would like to announce that I also agree with the main lines of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen who addresses concerns related to the challenges we face with regard to the energy balance in a global perspective. Prosperity development and economic growth mean increasing energy use and increasing pressure on the climate. So we have undoubtedly some important challenges ahead of us. For a while now, I actually thought that the Progress Party had an – let's say – environmental motivation to travel the interpellation, but it somehow cancelled Solvik-Olsen in its second post when he took the energy situation as the main starting point. The main question raised in the interpellation is whether the Government will help Norway to take a leading role in the field of thorium research. The rationale is to exploit the thorium deposits present in Norway and the resulting values. In the light of today's knowledge, I share the perception that we are sitting on great values. I'm not going to say now that we're never going to participate in research programmes that intend to use thorium, and I'm not going to deny that once in the future we might realize the values of the instances we're sitting on – until that's the time perspective here, too far ahead, together with the fact that we have significant challenges in other energy policy areas. Therefore, I do not agree that Norway will be the leader in research on thorium. Because there are quite a few issues that arise, and as I think it is valuable to stay with something. One of the issues is the time perspective. The production of electricity based on thorium is well ahead of time. There's reason to believe that at least we're talking about a twenty-year time perspective before we can see the contours of a thorium power plant. With regard to climate problems, as Solvik-Olsen also points out in its interpellation, we have major challenges. When the interpellant points to China opening one coal power plant for a week, yes, it gives us a picture of the challenges ahead. We are now placing a massive effort on solving the climate problem related to electricity production based on fossil fuels. In the future perspective we can now look into, this is our remotest challenge. Today's nuclear technology has cheap uranium available for many years to come, and it has been suggested that resources will last until 2040. There is therefore no reason to believe that thorium gets its justification before that time approaches. Nor is there any reason to believe that thorium power plants will phase out existing or future power generation based on fossil fuels as long as these forms of energy are available. 90 pst. electricity production is currently based on fossil energy. Regardless of a breakthrough in thorium research or a further build-up of nuclear power, as we see today's contours, fossil energy will be a significant share of energy production worldwide. Then it becomes important for us – and for the climate – that we maintain focus on CO2 management using fossil fuels. The aim must be to reduce the climate problems that emerge in the wake of precisely this form of energy. This initiative also enables us to put into practice, among other things. Natural gas in a completely different and environmentally friendly way, and it's a nearby challenge that we have to solve. Another issue is: where are research funds and knowledge channelled in the field of interpellation? In my opinion, it is likely that this research will take place outside Norway and not for increased knowledge-building and industrial production in Norway — at least in relation to the efforts that Norway needs to make in order to take a leading position. I have registered that much of the research environment in Norway is concerned with thorium. But I still think it's right to take responsibility for the research effort continuing after the main lines that are now drawn up. A third problem raised is the problem of waste, which does not disappear, even if it is significantly reduced. This, however, I believe that research may be able to solve because of the focus already put on the topic. Summing up, we're definitely betting right as we are doing today. Significant efforts to reduce CO2 emissions from fossil energy are the right focus, both in terms of our resources and climate challenges and also in terms of knowledge development and industrial production opportunities. The Thorium deposits don't disappear, nor do the values. If we focus on tackling the issues related to fossil energy, the climate can lose. That loss, in the time perspective we now have to deal with and take responsibility for, will be far greater than the gain of the thorium deposits we have to own.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e826	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is very positive that we in Stortinget can discuss the global energy and environmental challenges in the years to come. I believe that today we are discussing the biggest and most important issue in this century, energy and the environment. The question of thorium is a small part of this, but of course it has a potential. I think it is right, as the Council of State was also involved in its statement, to refer to the report of the International Energy Agency – or book – which came to the G8 Conference in St. Petersburg this summer. It is stated that it is actually possible to limit greenhouse gas emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases, so that by 2050 they are at current level, if action is taken. Now it's not too ambitious. Norway has a much more ambitious attitude when world environment ministers meet in Nairobi. But just to be able to reverse the violent growth of greenhouse gases in the years to come, a number of measures are required, and that is what the International Energy Agency, the IEA, concludes. The highest potential, says the IEA, is in increasing energy efficiency. It is such that if you install modern air conditioning and ventilation systems instead of today, you can save 40 pst. of the energy. Switching to other types of bulbs, isolating differently, replacing old windows, operating industrial production more efficiently – modern steel systems compared to old ones – has enormous potential. This must be taken first, says it. Then you're about to go from the heavy fossil fuels to the less polluting fossil fuels, that is. from coal to natural gas. Norway has a resource there, and we already deliver 20 pst. of the natural gas needed by the United Kingdom. The IEA is also concerned with the importance of CO2 management, clean-up and storage. There the IEA says you should start with coal power plants, because that's where it's most CO2, and that's where it's most cost-effective. Now we in Norway have chosen to start with natural gas, and I hope that this will be a successful project, where we can also see a great environmental benefit. So the IEA is committed to this with renewable energy. It is also a potential to increase the use of renewable energy. When you get to nuclear power, you say you need to increase the production of nuclear power in the years to come. We are not trailers of that in Norway, not in Norwegian soil. We see the major disadvantages associated with nuclear power. Among other things, one to two generations can create a storage problem for 10,000 generations that come after us. That is a very strong message. It's a pretty strong story to leave behind. So you're concerned about this with biofuels, that it can come in as an alternative. All of this is good. So this question of thorium has been added. I think it's an exciting area. It cannot be realised in the short term. But I think that Ketil Solvik-Olsen, by raising this debate, shows that we have a potential to develop this in Norway as well. We have major thorium deposits. For the time being, storage problems also appear to be different and smaller in the use of thorium than in conventional nuclear power. The notion of researching in this area in the future, when this is happening in Norway, and it can be one of many solutions in the future to go from a fossil energy society to a more sustainable energy society, I think, is positive. I hope that the Council of State and the Government will not lock themselves here, but for example. through a little more research funding to the Institute for Energy Research, IFE, at Kjeller, this institute provides an opportunity in parallel with the activities carried out at Kjeller and Halden, so that we in Norway can gain the necessary competence for this, too, as an opportunity – I do not draw conclusions, but as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e861	Let me also thank the interpellant for putting the major global energy and environmental issues on the agenda. How we're going to meet the energy and environmental challenges in not just a 20-year perspective, but in a 100-, maybe 200-year perspective, it's not every day we get the opportunity to discuss in this room. I think that doing that deserves praise, even though we don't share all the views that the interpellant suggests. When we look at the energy challenges ahead, the main challenge facing us is climate change, the challenge we have to solve if we are to have a stable energy situation globally. That's what's the one big thing we have to meet. I think it's positive with the small signals coming from the Progress Party, and that in perhaps a year's time, there's a total increase that takes the challenges seriously. I look forward to the debate we are going to have when the Intergovernmental Panel presents its new report to spring, and whether we have a progress party that also takes over this part of it. I think there is one perspective that has been gone in the debate and in the discovery of energy issues so far, but on which the interpellant was so much concerned at the beginning of its article. It's the large amount of people who don't have electricity at all. It is one of the major energy challenges in the future. It's a challenge we're not allowed to ignore, that the energy resources in the world so far are extremely distributed. With the challenge we're facing, that everyone should have, we also have to assume that we who are on the top, we who use the most, have to join in and give room for those who don't have any things to take their share of wealth development and energy consumption in the future. Climate issues and energy issues also have an important global distribution perspective. It's happening while we're discussing this, climate change in Nairobi, which is going to take the next period after the Kyoto agreement is over, and find solutions. The important debate to promote all new technologies that do not lead to CO2 emissions depends on our success in these. I also hope that the Progress Party has a great commitment to succeed in the next round of climate negotiations, just to be in and get this kind of technology out. There are many challenges related to the thorium technology addressed by the Progress Party. And let me say that it's a technology that we're not going to dismiss. It's a technology we're going to gain more knowledge about. It looks so far that there will be less waste, which does not need to be stored as long as the waste we have from the conventional nuclear power reactors. And we know that the process is subcritical, so that the risk of melting, and that it comes out of control, is not as great as for others. But there are many challenges left. I don't think it makes sense that Norway spends $5 billion on making a Cern prototype reactor on thorium. But that we're using some resources to get skills and knowledge, not least with the investment that's taking place in India, which is the only country that's betting on this, seems to be making sense. I still want to warn you about one thing that is happening now, and I also feel that several others are doing, that while we are discussing some kind of technology that does not have a significant environmental impact – at least you don't want it to have a major environmental impact – many traditional nuclear power reactors are ordered. Being out there and taking the debate on nuclear power is also internationally important, although we know that the climate turmoil is the big one. I also want to challenge the Progress Party to join in and pull that load. There will not be one solution to the climate challenges and energy challenges in the future. The clearest message Al Gore gave when he was in Norway was that it is at least a handful. In Norway, we have the opportunity to contribute in the field of CO2 deposition. That will be a great contribution. But I would also like to emphasise that we in Norway are about to have a cluster of suns – we have got REC, which is now the second largest land-based listed company at Oslo Børs after Orkla, which has great results in the sun, Elkem invests in the sun, and Hydro invests in the sun. We can have opportunities there that are completely adventurous. But all other renewables and energy efficiency improvements must also, of course, be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e886	The interpellant is today putting an important theme on the agenda: the world's energy use. This theme contains different values. One of them, as the interpellant wasn't so much inside his post, is how the earth's population can use less energy. In the debate on the world's energy needs, there are many challenging issues. I believe that one of the most challenging questions is precisely energy saving. This needs a stronger focus. The interpellant mentioned this focus, but perhaps in a very negative way. He used words like 'naïve' and 'not enough'. I don't share the inter-pellant's views on this, and I don't think the IEA, based on what they say in their report, shares the inter-pellant's views. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the commitment to energy savings in the draft budget of the Government this year. But I challenge the Government to take greater responsibility for a comprehensive attitude campaign in terms of our energy use. This challenge is at stake, because I think that, as on many other points, it is important to sweep at your own door. Lectures I've heard, and what I've read about thorium power plants lately, tells me that these are power plants that belong to the future. Solid initial investment is required to test this type of reactor. Thorium power stations are nuclear power in a new concept. We're talking about a demanding technology, but according to researchers, this technology looks promising today. It's important that we use the knowledge we have per. today, and thorium power plants will not produce plutonium. It's important to bring it with you. The Christian People's Party does not see it as natural that, as an energy nation, we should go into the brink of this type of research, even though we are sitting on the fourth largest instance of thorium. But the Christian People's Party also does not want us to volunteer. We need to keep an active eye on the developments that are taking place. This suggests both the presence here in the country and our economic situation. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that our largest research resources will continue to be used to create whole value chains with CO2 and on a stronger investment in bioenergy, sun and waves. We believe that these are important areas in relation to the climate challenges we are facing. Thorium is a new technology. But it's important, as the Christian People's Party sees it, that we too in this work focus on non-proliferation in relation to weapon production. The inter-pellant was aware of the fact that there is a short way between the civil technical development of energy forms and military use. We believe it is important that we already put in place, early, framework conditions that are in line with the non-proliferation agreement. It's about small amounts of uranium-232 in these power plants, but it's important here, as the Christian People's Party sees that we're leading was. The interpellant challenges the Council of State to accept, as a nation, a leadership responsibility for this research. In the reasoning, from the interpellant and also from the Council of State, I miss the position of the Research Council. It's been said that you've talked to different scientists. But before starting such a larger research programme, I think it would have been natural to hear what the Research Council and its professional environments mean. I also thought it would have been natural to get there in this interpellation. Norway is not a nuclear power nation, and I still don't think we should be. Just because we're not, our neutrality, allows us to play such a central role as we do in relation to the safety of various nuclear power stations that exist around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e906	I have been listening to the debate and wanted to come up with some additional points. For when one hears Ketil Solvik-Olsen now, a drawing some parallels to the protocols of the 1950s on the belief in nuclear power as the great rescue, like the rescue of the poverty problem, can be an exhaustive source that would be the final solution to the world's energy challenges. But the last 60 years have shown that there have been some challenges to what was outlined as a solution then, and I think we will also see some challenges related to thorium, although it also has its advantages. Firstly, the waste problem around thorium is not to blow off. Whether it's 200-300 years or 700-800 years, it's a long time anyway. It will take a lot of research effort, and it will take a lot of financial resources to achieve the goal, if we're going to achieve it. What made me feel the need to take the floor was to jump very easily over the issue of nuclear weapons and the challenge of nuclear proliferation. If we've followed in the last few years, we've seen that the debate on non-proliferation has been on the defensive. We've seen it in Iran, we've seen it in North Korea, we've seen in countries by country that we have problems following the non-proliferation agreement, and there's a clear link between research and the development of civil nuclear power and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We know, and Solvik-Olsen also knows, through the use of thorium we will get uranium isotopes that can be used for just nuclear weapons. So I think it's a little strange that you don't problem a little bit more when you point to nuclear power as the great final solution, that you don't see the connection between increasing nuclear power and nuclear proliferation in the light of the current situation in Iran, where there is a clear link between the civil nuclear programme and the concerns expressed by the world community and also by Norway in relation to Iran. Dissemination of technology results in more people gaining knowledge, and the question is whether society is secure enough when more and more people are getting knowledge and the road is getting shorter to produce more nuclear weapons. If the solution presented by Solvik-Olsen is to become real, it means that many more countries than today are building up in relation to nuclear power, which means that more and more countries have a short way from nuclear power to nuclear weapons. That is why I am a little surprised that the representative Solvik-Olsen does not bother at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e914	The left shares the inter-pellant's concern about the world's energy balance, the poor in the Third World and the pressures on the environment. The left is deeply concerned about climate change. However, the left does not share the view of the inter-pellant that thorium power plants are the answer for Norway to these challenges. Thorium power depends on technological breakthroughs. We are talking about an energy technology that would today be very expensive to develop, which is far ahead of time – some suggest over 20 years – and to which there is uncertainty as to whether it can be realised. The waste from the reactors may be used for the production of weapons and ‘shit bombs’. The storage problem associated with the waste has not been resolved in any way. The left wants Norway to be at the forefront of research and development of climate-friendly technologies. However, we must recognize that we have limited human and financial resources for this work. That is why we must choose areas of action with care. The left is aware that in Norway we own significant thorium resources, and Norway is also one of the most attractive countries in the world when it comes to renewable energy. With our long coast, we have enormous opportunities in renewable energy, such as tidal power, wave power, salinity and wind power. I would also like to highlight our great potential in small energy and bioenergy. Norwegian enterprises are world leaders in the silicon and solar industries. Several of these renewable forms of energy are now much closer to the realization of thorium technology. The left considers it alarming that Norway, according to the International Energy Agency, is in a jumbo place for research into renewable energy. Norway also has significant commitments to reduce fossil energy emissions. The development of new and improved cleaning technologies for gas power plants will make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and the world. A number of oilfields in the North Sea are becoming mature for the deposition of CO2. This can provide good opportunities to establish value chains for CO2, which can make CO2 cleaning much more attractive. Norway is now in a good position to further develop these technologies. We therefore need to invest in research and development in the clean-up of CO2. In this context, I would like to refer to the work of my own family. Hammerfest Stroem has developed the world's first tidal power plant in Kvalsundet outside Hammerfest. At the same time, Hammerfest Energy works with the development of a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning. These are areas that are very important for Norway. These Hammerfest projects are excellent projects in international context, for which it is now high time for the authorities to have their eyes up before the technology disappears abroad. It is also a cross-section of thought that both the environmental movement and Norway's leading specialist environment in nuclear energy, the Institute of Energy Technology, express strong scepticism for a major effort in thorium technology. Nor has the EU, which has significant interests in the development of safer and better nuclear energy, wanted to finance such a large effort. In energy policy, the Progress Party and the interpellant appeal to reason. The climate and energy challenges of Norway and the world are most relevant today. Then we can't wait 20 years. We must therefore put greater emphasis on climate-friendly technologies that are closer in time. The left cannot therefore give priority to thorium research. However, the left is technology optimists, and it will be important to follow developments in thorium technology and contribute where it is natural for Norway to contribute to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e950	The next speaker is Tord Lien – then the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e953	One shall not be sure that Lien is unable to provoke more speakers until the interpellant is given the floor. Let me first say that I join all those who have said that it is positive that the Progress Party has taken up this debate. So do I. Then there have been some claims and statements from my colleagues. One is that the knowledge of thorium is limited. The second is that we are talking about a long-term perspective – and then there has been a debate on yes or no to nuclear power plants. This is not about yes or no to nuclear power plants. The romantics in this room shout and scream at each and every time this is a theme – they say no to nuclear power, while importing enormous amounts of nuclear power, both from Finland and from Sweden, every day. This is a debate that concerns the 1.6 billion people in the world who do not have access to electricity, and who in the next 20, 30, 40 or 50 years will get it. Also in relation to the nuclear power debate, it has been suggested that uranium-based nuclear weapons can be produced in this process. That is so correct. But it's a lot harder to produce uranium based on thorium than enriched uranium based on the raw material uranium. So that debate is getting too stupid. Sorry, it was a little parliamentary concept, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e964	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e967	I should say, it's a little wise debate. Then there are claims that knowledge is limited. Yes, if the knowledge of thorium had not been limited, we would not have been sitting here discussing this. Obviously, there are challenges to generating electricity based on thorium, but all the research communities in Norway, including IFE, say that this makes sense, and we can do this in the long term. Then it's said that we're talking about a long-term perspective. Yes, of course we do. Maybe it takes 15 years, maybe it takes 30 years to get to this. Then I want to draw a parallel to Norwegian gas power. In the next 30 to 40 years, we will produce large amounts of gas power in Norway. Whatever the minority in this room is going to say about it, that's what's going to be the reality. It's going to happen whether we get CO2 handling or not, because Norway as an industrial nation can't afford to be free of electricity, and gas power is part of that solution. However, in 30–40 years it will be free of gas, and it may make sense that thorium is in place as part of the solution to Norway’s future energy needs. Then we'll have a technology that we'll be able to sell on to other countries, and we'll have a resource in the commodity thorium. But it's quite obvious, as Burnde was, that thorium is one of many ways to the goal of securing energy supply in Norway in the future. State Council Enoxen said that fossil fuel will be the most important energy carrier in the future. What's the reason for that? Well, the reason is that coal is the cheapest, and so it is also the most important energy carrier in the future. Thorium actually has the potential to be cheaper than coal. That's why it's so important that we get to grips with this technology. So it's quite obvious that renewable energy is interesting. But solar or wind power will never be the primary generator of electricity in any industrialised country. For that, the voltage supplies are for insecure. I will conclude by saying that several of my colleagues have been involved in the Progress Party and the Kyoto Agreement. It is of course touching to see how much weight both the SV and the Christian People's Party, for that matter, puts on the attitude of the Progress Party towards the Kyoto Agreement. But I believe that the survival of the Kyoto Agreement after 2012 is very little dependent on the Progress Party, and very much depending on the costs of those countries that are going to reduce their CO2 emissions. Thorium can help to reduce CO2 emissions at a much lower cost than current technology, and not least in CO2 management, it is known that at least 20 pst. the energy must be used for cleaning. I believe that if we succeed in thorium, it is a far greater contribution to the Kyoto debate than the Progress Party had to think and do in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e996	This interpellation was not intended to conclude with something concrete and to grant money. It was meant to try to get a debate in which one had an open mind and not least was shown a willingness to run a process that we see has gone down in the EU, in the future. So I'm disappointed, because what comes out from most people who take the floor is: it's really nice with a debate, but this isn't our table, it's safest to stick to the CO2 cleaning of gas power plants. But the problem that one then overlooks is that this debate is about generating more energy on the globe. Cleansing a CO2 is an environmental measure. It doesn't improve the energy balance. When we see what happens in the form of power struggles, in the form of environmental challenges, in the form of wealth development and in view of all the billions of the world that do not have energy, it is precisely the energy supply that should have been the main focus here, and not all the disadvantages and how difficult it is – and that we should have to clean up CO2. We're also going to do that, but it doesn't solve the problem in terms of energy supply. One should look at the possibilities of taking the initiative and taking responsibility. Many people ask, what are we going to live on after the oil? Yeah, maybe it should be thorium? If an investment of 550 million. The euro can help us get a thorium power plant, we have a potential source of revenue of 250,000 billion dollars. It is the value of thorium deposits in Norway, if one converts energy to the price of oil today. So instead we get a blind bet on CO2 cleaning on Kårstø, which would cost almost the same thing. We have no idea how much Kårstø will cost, but the estimates and operating costs indicate that it will be at least as expensive as building a thorium pilot plant. So the representative of Aasland from the Workers' Party says that here we can wait until the oil is a little bit more exhausted, then we will need alternatives. But doesn't he see what kind of future one can face, if one actually gets a bigger fight over the energy resources? Thorium is cheaper than uranium, if one makes it work. It is therefore important that a pilot plant be built today so that it can be confirmed that it works. I'm a little surprised when the representative of Aasland is suddenly disappointed that I talked more about energy in my other post than I talked about the environment. But, my man – I'm sorry – it's connected! If one is going to produce energy, it's going to have environmental consequences. That's why you have to talk about both of them. Should we wait? A thorium power plant is at least 20 years ahead – but in 20 years, a thorium power plant can be completed. If one then only sees the contours of it, it's because one is blinded by the Soria Moria fog. Distribution of energy resources, talking about. Yeah, I think the energy resources on the globe aren't a certain amount, but it has a little bit to do with how we use them. Instead of trying to distribute them better, so that a take from someone to give to others, a few can give more to everyone. I still ask for answers from the Minister of Energy: Will he attend and arrange a conference on this? I know that the Nobel Prize winner Rubbia is willing to come. It is important to gain this competence up and down in Norway. If Norway does not, nobody in Europe does — unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e1021	Finally, let me thank you for a good debate on an exciting topic with which we will undoubtedly become more familiar in the years to come: how are we going to secure the world's energy supply in the future? I feel that there is relatively broad support for the Government's policy in this room and in the debate we have had today on renewable energy as the main track, and that we should take a leading role in dealing with CO2, which is one of the major environmental policy challenges, and which is an area in the relatively short term where we can achieve good progress and good technological solutions that will bring costs down to a level that makes the management of CO2 a real alternative to the CO2 quota price. The third thing that several people have been involved in is that it is necessary to seek more knowledge and keep us up to date on developments in the use of thorium, as I also said in my main post. Of course, the debate on the use of thorium will not be over with today's debate. It's going to be a theme in the future. India intends to bet on thorium, and as several have said, we have a great resource in this area and will therefore also be part of this. And I will, as I have said, of course, not reject that thorium once or for all in the future can be a reasonable alternative to uranium in the production of nuclear power. In the light of what has been said in the debate by several representatives, and the signals that have come, I will take the initiative to carry out a thorough investigation in order to thus establish the best possible factual basis in relation to both opportunities and risks of using thorium for energy production, and leave it to my contribution to a future debate on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-15.ana.ud357e1043	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended. Thus, today's map has been processed.
