ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e83	The representatives Jan Petersen, Dagfinn Sundsbø and Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen and Stein Knutsen For the Province of Rogaland: Siri A. Meling and Trond Lode For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Cecilie Thaule Løvlid Representative Heidi Sørensen has been informed that she is withdrawing the granted permit application for the period from 9 to 16. May. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e125	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e150	Stavanger2008 is a significant cultural project in the Norwegian context. Being a European city of culture offers great opportunities. It provides significant focus, and it gives rise to large liabilities. Stavanger is a city with a strong international network, a city in the transition from being an oil city to becoming a modern European regional centre, where new industries will grow. Stavanger has Bilbao as a city of friendship. It might not be random. Bilbao has also invested in culture, because they will attract competent people. It highlights the message of creativity, shows and enables adaptability and, not least, underpins the pride of the city and the enthusiasm for the development that needs to come. With the exception of the Progress Party, there has been a broad political consensus in the UK to support Stavanger's efforts to become a European city of culture. Nine of the largest cities in the country also supported the application at that time. This is also an important point when we discuss the issue of mobilising the whole country. When Stortinget dealt with the guarantee and, later, the financial commitment, it was generally agreed that the cultural village project should benefit the entire country. A European cultural city project is so extensive that it has real capacity to do so. Not just about the audience. It also concerns the possibility of building up tournaments, commissioning Norwegian artists on the basis of a national impact field, and building up event-based skills, which may be useful in the future. However, ‘rewarding the whole country’ can quickly become a speck. When it comes to practical work, it is necessary that other actors also put in place to make this a reality. Not least this country. The experience of Bergen as a European city of culture is, as I see it, an example of the fact that one can quickly stand alone if not everything goes according to the plans. Without going into the depths of the Bergen project or inviting some debate about Bergen as a European cultural city, I think we can agree in retrospect that Bergen could have done better with a handshake when the project flocked to. The project might have had a greater impact on cultural life, nationally, than it actually got. This is not to say that it did not come out very exciting of Bergen's cultural city in 2000. By taking up this interpellation, it's my intention that we stop for a moment in a busy everyday life and look at what we can do to get the most out of Stavanger2008, nationally. I have great confidence in the management of the cultural city year in Stavanger. The signals and the plans we have seen so far promise very well. But maybe it's not so stupid to remember the possibilities that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has on this occasion. Perhaps there could be incentives for the Ministry of Culture or the Council of State itself to contribute, either in budgetary terms or otherwise, to ensure that our largest institutions are committed to the country. We know that considerable funds are being used in Innovation Norway in the tourism marketing of Norway. Is it true that they are actively using the cultural city year and with the potential of the cultural city year? Large-scale projects mobilising a number of individual events and a programme whole that also represent rare opportunities to build up the capacity of events. Lillehammer-OL was an example of that. Many of those who worked with Lillehammer-OL have subsequently appeared in key roles in many of the major national markings that have been ex post, not only in Norway, but in a broad sense also internationally. In this respect, there has also been a business perspective that is of interest. In Stavanger's application, I also believe that the competences that will be established there in terms of project construction, sponsorship, cultural economics, marketing and, in particular, working with large applications represent experience that is very important to take care of in the future. In this context, research and documentation can be a priority. On several other occasions, we have stressed the importance of strengthening cultural research in our country. Here's a concrete project just outside the door of a newly-baked university. Maybe there's something that should stimulate an effort around, or maybe you could also connect this to cultural education elsewhere in the country. Much of this is definitely going to happen by itself. Everything is also not suitable for implementation through state-owned initiatives. But it is important to be aware of the possibilities. And it's not just the Ministry of Culture that's central here. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and, in particular, the other departments should have an awareness of the opportunities available to an arena in which it is the cultural city year. Maybe there are small stimuli and simple arrangements that are needed to get an effect out of the individual things. Often only signals are needed for planning and coordination to start early enough to be able to play a practical role. I'm thinking here, for example. on a project such as the Cultural School Bag. Linking school-sack policy with the cultural city year will focus significantly on having an insight into the programme at an early enough time and having good communication paths between the two projects. I know that the Norwegian Culture Council is planning its annual conference added to Stavanger for this year. Other organisations or institutions may also be involved. Or maybe the international network, in which Norwegian organisations or Norwegian public institutions are participants, is also likely to be involved. The possibilities are many, but the results don't come of themselves. If we are to achieve good results, we need constant attention, a constructive will and concrete action where opportunities lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e178	At the back of the interpellation lies both faith in the Stavanger2008 project and attention to how Norway, as a nation, can best reach a level playing field for this initiative. This, of course, is a positive starting point for discussing the issues raised. The representative points out that the plans emerging in Stavanger are both promising and inclusive in their approach. This is also the government's view. The representative is concerned about whether Stavanger2008 is actually becoming a national project, and asks what the Government will do to contribute to it. I can assure you that I am also concerned about this. The State contributes significant funds to the project, and it is a condition that the assumptions made in due course are effectively met. As a starting point, I will explain the formal basis and the process of the Stavanger region as the European Capital of Culture until the plans we are looking forward to today. When the EU Council of 27 May 2005 decided to give Stavanger and the region the status of European Capital of Culture in 2008 together with Liverpool, it was based on the legislation of the Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 on the establishment of the Community Action European Capitals of Culture for the years 2005 to 2019. Article 4 of this Decision allowed non-member countries to nominate a city as the European Capital of Culture and, pursuant to Article 5 of that Decision, the city concerned may choose to involve the surrounding region in the Programme. The same Article specifies that a Capital of Culture should organise a programme of cultural events highlighting the city’s own culture and cultural heritage and its place in the common cultural heritage, as well as involving people from other European countries active in the field of culture, with a view to establishing lasting cooperation. Links between the programmes of the two designated cities for the same year shall be established. In Annex II to the Decision, it is a very long and detailed list of planning and evaluation criteria. In the short version it can be said that emphasis is placed on promoting the artistic movements in which the city has played a special role, and on attracting the attention of the European public on events and personalities that have shaped the history and culture of the city, as well as measures to increase the availability and attention of artistic expressions that are specific to the city. Furthermore, artistic innovation, new forms of dialogue, special cultural actions for young people, measures to increase the social community and measures to reach a wider audience shall be implemented, inter alia. through the use of multimedia and multilingualism. Actions shall also promote economic activity in job opportunities and tourism based on the sustainable use of cultural heritage and focus on the link between the architectural heritage and new urban development. Joint events to promote dialogue between cultures in Europe and other parts of the world shall also be organised. As can be seen from the reference above, the national dimension is not mentioned. Nevertheless, Stavanger chose from the outset to set it up as a national project. In 1999, cultural cooperation was established between the eight largest cities in Norway and Bodø with participation both at political and administrative level. Immediately after Stavanger decided on 1 October 2001 to apply for European Capital of Culture 2008, the other eight cities in the network were invited to participate in the plans. As a result, the same cities took formal political decisions to support the candidacy of the Stavanger region. In the further process, this network is also included in the cooperation established by Stavanger2008 with Liverpool as the second European Capital of Culture in 2008. I believe that it was seawardly Stavanger's good candidacy that won the process in the European Union. It is also true, paradoxically, that we have easier to become European Capital of Culture when we are not a member of the European Union, because there are far fewer candidate countries outside the EU than there are those in it. But I also believe that the national dimension of the network of cities that supported Stavanger's candidacy was an important contributory cause, and the link that one managed to create to Liverpool, like the other city that was to become the European Capital of Culture in 2008. The national dimension was presented in St.prp. No 69 for 2002-2003 Commitments on State grants to Stavanger and the municipalities of Sandne and Rogaland County to sub-finance operating expenditure in the implementation of the European Capital of Culture Year, including: read: ‘Stavanger and the region have made extensive efforts in relation to the application based on regional, national and international cooperation and the stepping up of cultural activities by 2008.’;» A large number of cultural actors in the Stavanger region have been involved in the process. The application is supported by positive opinions from the major cities. Stavanger is inviting a broad cooperation on the project. Stavanger and the region consider it important that the application reflects the national priorities and the international interests of Norway in the cultural sector. In my view, the status of European Capital of Culture will mean a boost for the whole of Norwegian cultural life. Not only Stavanger is the European Capital of Culture, but Stavanger is the European Capital of Culture of Norway in 2008. Int. S. No 248 for 2002-2003 from the Family, Cultural and Administrative Committee of the Stortinge the following: ‘The majority emphasise the importance of the implementation of the project already in the application phase in a way that includes cultural environments from across the country. Stavanger as future European Capital of Culture must become a cultural port of embarkation for the whole of Norway.» Furthermore, the national aspect was also mentioned by the international jury in the generally very positive assessment of Stavanger2008’s application. The report sent to the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the European Commission and the Committee of the Regions as the basis for the decision includes, inter alia: a formulation that the programme was considered as an authentic contribution to the wider European cultural sphere and as an organic contribution to diversity at all levels – local, regional, national, European and global. Stavanger2008 will present its national strategy during the spring. We already know that cooperation is being established between Stavanger2008 and national cultural organisations and institutions, festivals and individual artists. A school program has been developed in Rogaland. It will now also be presented to schools around Norway. 2007 will be the ‘Year of the Voice’, with cooperation between different types of artists across the country to explore and make known the many different audio-cultural expressions of our country. Five national projects have been established for 2008 and a further 20–25 national projects are being discussed. There are some examples of many of Stavanger2008’s follow-up to the assumptions of Stortinget and the Government that the Capital of Culture Year will be a boost for the entire cultural life of Norway, both in the upswing phase and in the Capital of Culture itself. Overall, as I see it, there is little cause for concern about the national aspect of the Capital of Culture Year. As we can already see from the plans in place, Stavanger2008 is very concerned that the Capital of Culture project should take care of the interests of the entire nation. Among the long-term objectives Stavanger has taken place, among others. increasing Norway's reputation as a dynamic and leading European country in the fields of art, culture and current thinking. They also want to increase and strengthen the skills and sea level of the Norwegian cultural community, as well as to help maintain the cultural debate in Norway as a nation. The most visible indication that Stavanger2008 is a national promise is that the government has said that we should allocate 100 million. kr to the project. It was to be given over three years from 2006 to 2008. And then you had to figure out, after the usual head count, that it was going to be about 33 million. per 1 % years. Unfortunately, the Bondevik government, as representative Olemic Thommen knows well, proposed only 20 million. kr in 2006. That is, four fifths of the bill is left to the current government. But I can assure you that the bill that was left in the drawer will be paid. The Ministry of Culture and the Church will normally follow the way in which the funds allocated are managed in relation to the leaders given by the magnificence and government. In addition to regular informal contacts between the Ministry and Stavanger2008, the regular half-yearly meetings between the project management and the Ministry are held, and Stavanger2008 has been told to report and report in the usual way. There are no State representatives on the Board of Stavanger 2008. That's the result of a conscious choice. The aim is to ensure the necessary artistic freedom and independence required by a project of this nature. With regard to the representative’s reference to Bergen as a European city of culture in 2000, I would like to point out that this was a much less economic investment from both the state and the city. In addition, the application was made on the basis of a Council Decision not subject to any procedural legislation of the European Union. A project such as Stavanger2008 must necessarily have many and strong international aspects. Similarly, it is the focus of the Capital of Culture region. At the same time, national considerations must also be taken into account, not least in the case of a project with such a high level of State funding. In my view, the experience we now have with Stavanger2008 – the plans that are being put up, the profile that is put up with Open Port, which is called in nine Norse and Open Port, which it is called in English – is a profile that fits very well with the Government's national cultural effort. I am convinced that Stavanger2008 will be an important national project of happiness both for Stavanger, for the country and for Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e231	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. I do not doubt the intentions of the Council of State or the Government that we should achieve the goal of the Storting, namely that this should be a national project. Equally, it is necessary, I think, to point out that we are going to do that, one must work quite systematically and quite practically in relation to all the small initiatives, and one must have this high on the agenda in his consciousness. When I bring this up, it's just to point it out. If we're going to get a result, you're going to have to play ball with a project as big as this. You can't leave it entirely to yourself. It's a rare large project with a large volume. Norway is a small country, and I think we're going to be able to match the big network that this opens, we're going to need the entire country's capacity, at least in some key areas. In this way, much will go by itself, but once again, it is important to focus on the ongoing work. In the case that the Bondevik II government only granted 20 million. kroner last year of a bill which, according to the head bill, was to be 33 million. kr, is probably linked to the fact that it is natural that the largest part of the funding comes in the year in which the money is actually spent, namely in the year of the event. During a normal escalation, I actually think it was quite rusty – we are talking here about a planning phase. I am pleased to hear that Stavanger European City of Culture is committed to national projects and that they have such an offensive attitude as they have, for example. in relation to the school project to go to Rogaland. I think that's just suitable for hanging on the cultural school bag, and I hope that it could have ring-fenced effects all over the country. Using the international contact area that this gives is a rare possibility. I think it will be important, for example. to appeal to the Norwegian Cultural Council and some other central institutions to use it and perhaps to include it in their applications relating to the State budget of the autumn, to see whether there are possibilities through the budget to allow for greater activity in institutions outside the Stavanger region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e248	I share all the points of view that the representative is promoting here, except for what was on the plan of progress for the appropriations. It would probably have been an advantage, I think, for Stavanger2008 if the appropriations had come into even pools. I don't think anyone in Stavanger had complained very much about it. But now leave it. Many measures are needed to make this a national project. One of them is that the national political environment – cultural politicians in both big cities, governments and other places – participates in the event and profiles the city. We're really going to do that from our side. I also hope that the Stockholm Culture Committee, the Presidency and others will use the opportunity that Stavanger2008 is putting Norway on the European map. I see the president's writing it down in his book already. It is important because it is a European city of culture, and it is Norway's European city of culture. It is not to leave Stavanger alone to put Stavanger on the map. We will contribute to this from all over Norway. The network of the other cities I think is also important. There is also a good point that the representative says that other national cultural institutions in Norway need to introduce a good dose of Stavanger2008 thinking in their programmes for 2008, link up with the profile chosen by Stavanger2008, participate in activities listed by Stavanger in 2008, and use the year to build up under Stavanger as a European city of culture. This is a wonderful opportunity not only to profile the very good cultural city of Stavanger; it is also an opportunity to put Norwegian cultural life on an international map, to make people more aware of the art production that is going on in Norway, and to build new networks to participate in an international arena. Then the link between Stavanger and Liverpool and the cooperation they have will become important. It is fully possible for institutions other than those located in Stavanger and the Stavanger region to connect to Liverpool and look at possible cooperation projects that way. The profile chosen by Stavanger2008 will be theirs. Here you can enter the arm length principle. It should not be us in the Ministry of Culture who sit and decide the art profile of the Stavanger2008 project. That's why we've chosen to stay away from having our own representatives in the councils and selections that determine the kind of artistic profiles. But I hope that Stavanger2008 – and I am quite convinced of that – will choose a profile, style and direction of what fits with the other national cultural effort. I had a meeting with Stavanger 2008 just a little over a week ago. There we discussed, and I got presented, the different plans they have. I can say after that meeting that it was very promising, and that it fits very well into the national cultural policy effort. I have also invited Stavanger 2008 to my office to have a thorough review of all the plans and to get my office connected at all stages, so that we have a close and close dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e263	I think it is very good that this matter is addressed as interpellation in the Storting, and I think it is very good that the representative Olemic Thommessen takes it up. The representative Thommess comes from a completely different place in the country, and I think it's positive, because it says a little bit about the width of what you want, and what you put in the application when Stavanger and the Stavanger region took this initiative. I think it was very good to add this to Norway and Stavanger. This is what we're going to do. There is great enthusiasm in the region for this project. It is discussed daily in all newspapers and in the media elsewhere. It's also positive. It is only the Progress Party that has always said that this is not a project that they want to put behind. What is also important when we discuss the further progress here – and I think they have a good grip on it locally – is not only to anchor it nationally, internationally and in the region, but also to get the popular breadth of this event. I think that's very important. The plans that are now being put, are, we see that they are not put in isolation, as I said instead, for just Stavanger. It's the whole county and the whole region being dragged into this, as well as the national setup. If there is a place in Norway that should have the very best conditions to achieve this, it is this region, with the international anchoring it has had up throughout history, and it has also today. I can only mention that 10-12 pst. by the city of Stavanger is from other nations. They have a stay there now. It says a little bit about the city, about how dynamic it is in this area. I have to say that what the minister said instead of the good follow-up this has received from national teams, including from the Council of State, which follows on what is happening, and that you can express yourself, is very positive. It's culture in its vast breadth you're talking about here. It's art, culture, and it's not least the current cultural thinking you're going to take up to get this internationally anchored in Europe and in the nation of Norway. That's where we have the challenge. It's these three things that are at the top of the agenda, and that you're working on. That's why I think it's important, as the Council of State also says, that you should have the strong international imprint on it. It is really to raise Norway as a nation and make Norway internationally known in cultural development in this area. We also see the importance of, and that's Stavanger City and the region concerned, how you can really get to the big width. For example, when it comes to setting up industry, it is not only the individual workplace, but also the overall environment, which is so important in establishing, the value of people to live in a region and be involved in and develop in a community. Then you get the attraction. That's when you see it live in many areas. It gives nourishment and growth. So a little bit about the economy, which I think is starting to fall into place. To be quite clear: the funds, from the region 100 million. kr, from private, i.e. sponsors, 100 million. kr and from the State 100 mill. kr, to be distributed over the year. And then there's a bunch of projects, amazing projects, like this. what the symphony orchestra is supposed to do with the church, etc., which is tense. This is new thinking that you're looking forward to. It's for such projects you're going to apply for funds, from different agencies, to get it done. It's going to add up. Here we see that creativity is great, it's good, but what's also important, as I said, is that there's a little discussion in this room. We'll come back to it further in time. Then we'll see that the nation is going to stand behind and be involved in the excitement that this whole project is going to have. I look forward to the big year 2008 and to the main programme launched in the spring of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e278	Today's debate will probably be marked by many great visions and many homage words, both about how important cultural life is to people most, and how important the capital of culture will be to Stavanger, Rogaland and Norway. Cultural life will probably flourish before, during and after this event. People will be happier, more reflected, and as rogalendies, we can hope that even herring will come back again, with such a beautiful cultural capital. I experience cultural life in Stavanger and Rogaland as quite rich already. Those of us who live there, and those who come to visit, I think something is happening all the way, in the form of festivals and cultural events for large and too small. There's a great diversity. There are many possibilities, and there are not least many users, both in terms of width and in terms of the more elite cultural aspect. Stavanger Brass Band is a good example of culture flourishing in Stavanger until now. The movement of the body – as an active musician over 20 years – I would like to inhale to express myself. Stavanger Brass is among the world's leaders. They have a great grassroots movement from which to retrieve their young musicians. This shows that cultural life works, that it flourishes. Yes, it actually flourishes in the FrP County of Rogaland, where the Advance Party is the largest party. Stavanger Brass, on the other hand, is not often drawn out in such fine cultural debates, because Stavanger Brass is a little too popular culture in such contexts. It still shows that there's a lot going on in Stavanger, even before a capital of culture becomes a fact. Festivals, e.g. Happy Mat Festival, has survived and flourished long before Stavanger becomes a capital of culture. People go there in heaps, from both north and south. It's a party mood there every year. This I think is great. It shows commitment. That's what you can expect in a FrP state. So now we're going to spend 400 million. kr plus to mark that Stavanger is a cultural city and a cultural capital. There is no doubt that the Progress Party has been skeptical about this all the way, but we are not going to use this opportunity to take a rematch, because it has been adopted. And then we'll see what result we get when this is done. Still, I don't think it's so much new to pick up for Stavanger in this area, and that's what worries me. This is going to be a bit gigantic in a relatively short, intensive period, sailing in one year can work there and there. That's when I ask myself, 400 million. kr – it would have happened very much, but it would have happened very much almost no matter what a spent 400 million. kr per. That's what you should be looking at. If you first decide to spend 400 million. on culture in a limited geographical area, is it necessarily a capital of culture which will have the most long-standing repercussions on the population? I don't think so. What I hope today's debate can focus a little on is this: what's going on with the cultural life of Rogaland, that is, the adversarial life, where most people are with and not just the paid cultural elite where politicians are invited to Canada? What's happening when all of a sudden 100 million dollars. are business sponsor funds channelled to such an event as this instead of being used year by year on year on a broad culture? To answer that, it's enough to read Stavanger Aftenblad or to listen to some other media in Rogaland. Then it turns out that e.g. members of the Sandne cultural school say that their activities are now beginning to suffer because they are not part of the major cultural capital campaign. Ergo: Much of what they do out of voluntary engagement -- some of them paid, but working very hard in the evening -- doesn't get the same living conditions, because they don't get money from business the same way they did before. Now all the money is going to go into the capital of culture. They do not have the same support schemes from the municipality that they had before, so now all the funds are going into the Capital of Culture to mark one year, 2008. If they are really unfortunate, they are also not invited to be part of the activities of the Capital of Culture Marking. Sense if it's going to happen a lot during that year, you know that there's not enough room for everything. At least it won't be the audience of everything, sail if I hope it! I hope that the Council of State, and the subsequent speakers, will tell you a little bit about the following: how will the Sandnes School of Culture try to get money from business to survive the next few years until the Capital of Culture is a fact? And not least, how are we to ensure that business is not depleted for many years after 2008, because they are now pushing their sponsoring funds in order to be able to sung in the shine of a political-created cultural exposure?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e299	Of course, I could use my entire contribution to respond to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, but it would have been to track completely by. Only two clear feedbacks: the local policy priority of culture in the Stavanger region has continuously led to an increase in industry’s contribution to culture year by year, and is likely to continue beyond 2008. The local awareness of the importance of this is significantly greater than that of Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Secondly, part of the projects to which he referred that flourishes in the progressing part-state of Rogaland are projects for which the Progress Party has voted locally against granting money, and thus against their flowering as beautifully as they do. Stavanger European City of Culture 2008 is not just a local event, but a national and an international event. Norway has a unique opportunity as the last non-member country of the EU to have a European city of culture. Stavanger European City of Culture 2008 is not a one-year power take-off or one-year bet, but only a phase of a conscious effort that has been going on for many years and will last not least for many years after 2008. It is perhaps the beginning of the construction of a new concert hall in Stavanger in 2008 that will be the symbolic proof of the aftermath, but not least the continued flowering of cultural life afterwards will be absolutely essential. Much of what created the way to do something so controversial as to bet so much on getting the European Capital of Culture in 2008, was Antony Gormley's exhibition at Solastrand. It was controversial, had great popular resistance, but when the exhibition stood there, it excited the entire population of Rogaland, and people still remember it with joy. It was a small step, which made it possible to take the next step. In this way, cultural awareness has built up in an area that has gradually wide political upswings locally to bet consciously on culture, with the exception of the Progress Party. The fact that we're dealing with this interpellation today is very important, and the representative Olemic Thommess came up with the interpellation with the right content at the right time. There is always a great danger that once you've taken such a huge economic power force as the state has done here, and got all the formalities in place, that one then puts this behind you and thinks that now this goes by itself. But it doesn't! There is much more to it than formalities and financial resources. Much more is involved in a mental awareness of what the European City of Culture 2008 is, and that this awareness applies throughout the country, not least in the national state apparatus and in the national organisations and institutions. In Stavanger one has in many ways often said that the distance across the sea is shorter than the distance across the mountain. One has often felt that the distance to Brussels has been shorter than the distance to Oslo. It must not remain in this case, so that the awareness that Stavanger is a European cultural city is greater in Liverpool than it is among the inhabitants of Oslo, Namsos or Tromsø. It was a big day for Stavanger last night when Viking won. I see that today, the government council has Liverpool back in the staging room. That's a good sign that he also thinks internationally about this bet. It is quite clear that the central political environment needs to contribute if you are to be able to set up this mental notion that in 2008 Stavanger is a cultural city and that it is the year Norway has the capital of culture. In this way, the Ibsen year 2006 should be a model in many ways. I don't think there are many people in this country now who are not aware that Norway has an Ibsen year, and there are not many who are involved in culture, who do not have some sort of event associated with Ibsen. Our dream should be that in 2008 the profile of Stavanger2008 marks any cultural initiative in this country, and that everyone who works with culture has the same consciousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e316	When we dealt with this matter during the previous growing period, SV largely supported the comments of the case rapporteur that were present in the setting. There was a broad consensus throughout the family and culture committee at that time, except for the Progress Party, to make Stavanger the European Capital of Culture in 2008. The rapporteur-general at the time, Olemic Thommess, said that it was important that this large project become a national issue and a common promise. SV supported this and pointed out during the debate the importance of both the introduction of fresh funds, the fact that this effort was not at the expense of other cultural activities nationally or locally, nor should it affect other welfare measures in the municipality and county. It is important to involve themselves in further work towards 2008 on the experience gained when Bergen was a European city of culture in 2006. It's not just Stavanger's town, but the whole Stavanger region, which has long and rich art and cultural traditions, not to mention that the region is an important international venue. There's a lot to build on from community across many cultural expressions, both nationally and internationally. Over many years, the region has developed a large cultural and artistic production environment, which will bring many exciting experiences when that time comes in 2008. To invest in Stavanger as a European Capital of Culture is a cultural and economic project that must be done together – it is very important – where the forces are merging. Stavanger and the surrounding municipalities, the county, businesses and organisations must contribute in addition to State aid, which is, of course, a good and important contribution. I am also pleased that the Minister of Culture so clearly gives the signals he gives today, that this should be followed up, and that this is important for the Government. Of course, we fully agree with that. SV is pleased that this large-scale cultural project will become a reality, and it will now be extremely exciting to follow the project further in relation to the cultural content to be offered to the population, to the whole of Norway and internationally. This is, of course, a major investment for the region for the future, and also for the cultural cooperation to be developed by the fact that this will be a national project where good forces will work in a community to put Stavanger on the map, not least internationally, now not only as an oil city but as Norway’s cultural capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e329	I will first give tribute to the representative Olemic Thommessen to put this matter on the agenda. The Family and Culture Committee has been visiting Stavanger and has seen the impressive work that one has seen going on there. I think it is very important that we have national debates on this matter and have a special focus on it, because this is a matter that goes on much more than the Stavanger region. We must also strongly promote the fact that Stavanger's ability to become a European Capital of Culture in 2008 is a national matter. The strategists who have been behind European cultural change have had ambitious goals. We've seen that, and we've heard that. It's about making the Stavanger region one of the leaders in a world where culture and competence are more important competitive advantage than ever before. So some people might think: isn't this primarily a regional, local case? But as the Council of State was also involved in its contribution, there is an extensive cooperation between the Stavanger region and many cities in Norway, different places. When Stavanger2008 is marketed, it will also have a national synergy effect in relation to tourism and travel life. Selling to other countries what is now happening to Stavanger2008 helps to declare and advertise to Norway. Therefore, it is important that one considers this as an important national project. On the home page of Stavanger 2008, children and young people are challenged to make their recordings of what will happen during the Cultural Capital Year. They have created a Young Idea Bank, where children and young people can demonstrate their commitment to the Stavanger region as a European Capital of Culture. At the same time, it shows that organisers take an important target group seriously, and it is both affordable and wise. A great deal of contact and interaction have been developed between cultural, business and business sectors in Norway. This is also important for Stavanger2008 to be able to meet its objectives for the cultural city year. We need to facilitate a cross-sectoral interaction between the two fields of culture and industry In the context of the management of the culture and nutrition survey, the Christian People's Party therefore introduced a proposal to which all parties joined, asking the Government to present a holistic cross-sectoral action plan, in which innovation policy instruments are actively linked in order to ensure a better exploitation of the potential of the crop-to-food sector. The fact that Stavanger will soon become a European city of culture is a great opportunity for the Government to focus on culture and nutrition, by following up its decision on a holistic sectoral action plan. It is gratifying to note that many, not least locally, are now very concerned about a closer approach between culture and industry. An example of an exciting bet in this context is the Tau Scene in Stavanger, which was reopened on 29 April last year. Tau Scene is a flexible venue for performing arts and a new type of art dissemination arena. Tau Scene is a good example of what can happen when culture and business meet their competences. We live in a society that needs more culture-based industries, and these industries have gained more and more space in business in recent years. But the other parts of business, too, are asking for values that can be found within cultural life, such as creativity, imaginative wealth and adaptability. I hope that the Government will follow up the efforts to contribute to making Stavanger2008 a national cultural hub. This means that the State contribution must remain as expected, so that the project can be carried out as planned. Based on the signals we have received in the debate today, there is reason to believe that this is possible. It's very nice, and I think many people will enjoy what's going on, and getting knowledge about the Stavanger project in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e350	It is gratifying to hear the approach of the Council of State to the question raised by the inter-pellant. It is important that the City of Culture Stavanger 2008 becomes a visible national and international project, and everything is at the ready to do so. Until now, the Stavanger 2008 administration has actively pursued the national approach. They have invited everyone through the metropolitan network to come up with a project, and they have received a response. A total of 702 project proposals were submitted within the deadline last autumn. Among these were many suggestions from Kristiansand. In addition, Oslo, Bergen, Fredrikstad and Bodø, to name a few, were represented. In addition, festivals across the country are invited to participate. There are talks with the Culture Council in Oslo, and the talks with the Ministry so far have been constructive, I understand. It is a pleasure that the Council of State will keep in regular contact with Stavanger 2008. I also think it is positive that he regards this as a cooperation that must be maintained regularly, and that one should not suddenly take over the project from a central point of view. The local involvement that has been in the region, in Stavanger, is incredibly positive. The business community and the organization have a very good reputation for this project. Now everything suggests that the Storting must pay its entire share of the funding. Funding is as we know three-part. The size bideg with 100 million. kr and local government powers of 100 million. kr if Stavanger2008 is able to generate commercial revenues of 100 million. kr. The work on commercial income is on a sham. They have budgeted with three-six main sponsors and already have three in place in a month, probably four. They've budgeted six to ten level two sponsors, and before they start working with these sponsors, six are in place. It is therefore all right that the Storting must be ready to grant the remaining 80 million. kr. It is nice to hear from the Council that the bill will be paid. I am also pleased that the Council of State has realised that Stavanger2008 has chosen a profile that takes care of the diversity on the cultural level. The project will cover everything from internationally recognized art sizes on one outer edge of the Kinderhagane humor festival on the other. But also the geographical diversity is preserved at both national and international level. I believe that a close dialogue with the department will continue to be positive, and I believe that the Council of State has only received positive feedback on its invitations. I am pleased to see the result of the further work on the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e366	The European Capital of Culture Stavanger 2008 is not just about Stavanger City, it is about the Stavanger Region, and it is about the nation. The municipality has concluded a cooperation agreement with the municipality of Sandne and the municipality of Rogaland. There's a big goal set. The cultural effort of the region shall embrace the entire nation. It shall not only result in a regional basic idea of future cultural action but form a model of cultural construction in regions, Norway and Europe for the rest. We read on Stavanger 2008’s websites that parts of the program are ready. It is based in the room with a window for the national and international 'Open Port'. One of the highlights is the land-art project Handen, Båten, Krucken, Kniven and Träden, where the renowned American architect, artist and director Robert Wilson focuses on the role and relationship of handicraft traditions with international contemporary art. There is a grand project of theatres in landscapes, built on a Greek tragedy with thousands of statists and with the Jærtrendenden as the spectacular arena. In the project Norwegian Wood, recognised architects are required to build dwellings in several of the region's three-housed cities. These dwellings shall show the traditional regional structure and its use of wood as material. The Stavanger region has long and rich art and cultural traditions, and the region has become an international venue. The region has experienced a cultural boom in recent years, through the internationalisation of the region and a great growth of artistic production environments. Already today, the region has a positive impact on a rich cultural life, with a high level of breadth and quality. This major investment in the European Capital of Culture is a huge economic effort, contributing to the State aid by both the municipality of Stavanger, the municipality of Sandne, the county councils, businesses and organisations. The fact that the Stortinget has previously adopted support for Stavanger2008 is a great tribute to the initiators of Stavanger, with rapporteur and head of culture in mind, but also to all the environments, organisations in the Stavanger and Sandnes region that make this cultural effort possible with a focus on children and young people: the great and professional amateur theatres performed by many singing and choral amateur theatre groups at the secondary school theatres: Idun, Merkur, Sigyn and Munin...the exciting production environments of Stavangerde voluntary sports clubs, teams and organisations in the aesthetic lines of the regional secondary schools and the new university With Stavanger 2008, we will have an exciting and inspiring time with preparation, implementation and perhaps most of all permanent cultural investment in the region. Themes such as literature, freedom of expression, film, TV and new technologies, the protection of cultural memories – you will develop Bjergsted music park for a national music and art power centre and invite opera houses in Europe to guest performances in Sandne's cultural house. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen is trying today to say that Stavanger2008 is not for the most people. That's wrong. It's just a project for the whole population, based on children and young people. Furthermore, the Progress Party is trying to suggest that industry’s support for voluntary cultural work will diminish or disappear. It's wrong, because what we're seeing is that business support has increased steadily to voluntary cultural work in recent years as well. Now it was that when the Stortinget dealt with the matter of state aid to Stavanger 2008, the Progress Party was the only party that opposed the State aid. The Progress Party will not use state resources for a European Capital of Culture for fear, as noted in the note, that such a status could work against good intentions. There were doubts as to whether such a cultural effort would produce results, and one was opposed to organizing a popular party. European Capital of Culture is much more than a folk festival! Stavanger2008 has received support from the largest cities in Norway. It is not just a cultural effort for Stavanger and Sandnes, it is a cultural effort for the whole country! We can only recall the value of a successful OL event 10 years ago and the good Lillehammer and Norway effect. So let's enjoy the Capital of Culture year and hope that Stavanger2008 will be a valuable national project!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e407	It is gratifying to hear that the parties that have also previously supported the Stavanger 2008 initiative continue to do so. There's been a lot of nice recordings. I think the Council of State has also given clear signals that – with a positive sign – we should follow this case further. Here's what the representative, Höie, was talking about, about the mentality we have about the project, both in budgetary proceedings and at other crossroads here in the house. To the representative Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party, I would like to say that there is nothing so stimulating when you work with crews or choirs or amateur theatres as it is to gather about projects where you have something to reach for. Even I've worked in this kind of context on many occasions, and it's when you get problems that are a little bit out of hand, that you really have something to deal with. Indeed, projects such as Stavanger European City of Culture are precisely of a nature that creates such opportunities and that have them as incentives. I believe that the corps movement in the Stavanger and Rogaland region should definitely mobilize horn music in the chest and inspire the opportunities that lie here. I think you'll get far with that. Then I thank you for the debate. We will continue to follow this case, and I also want to congratulate those who are now taking part as organisers in Stavanger. The signals we received from Stavanger 2008 management are very promising. Let's do our best to realize those plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e416	Like the interpellant, I think it's been a good debate. There has been a great commitment to the cultural capital of Stavanger 2008, and it promises well. It is also a very necessary prerequisite for us to succeed in the project that the Stortinget and the national political level not only send the money and make the decisions, but also have a personal commitment. There's going to be a lot of opportunities to profile different aspects of Norwegian culture, but we should definitely use this opportunity. I am glad that it is as broad a connection to Stavanger 2008 as it was the time we adopted it. That's a good promise. This also indicates that those who are now responsible for the project have done a good job, as they have the same solid support in the storeroom now as it was then. I disagree very much with the approach of one party that is not so enthusiastic about Stavanger 2008, because I think the contrast between what Stavanger 2008 will do especially for professional art – and maybe profile Norway at a high level – and the wide cultural life is an artificial contrast. It's the exact same thing as sports; it's the points that inspire, motivate and add the list of widths, and that's the width that's the basis of the points and the peaks. So I think that such a promise that Stavanger2008 contributes to, will also benefit the broad culture. And it is impossible – at least not for a regional politician – for the state to spend 100 million. excluding the usual cultural budgets of the city and region. I think it would have been very little understood if someone from my city had come to the Storting and worried very much about it. I hope that there will be a good opportunity for national cultural life to use Stavanger2008 as a bridge out in the world. In the application that Stavanger sent in his time to be a city of culture, the rapporteur wrote that creativity, openness and tolerance are the result of good contact between people in Stavanger and the rest of Europe, and that a broad presentation of European culture was expected in Stavanger – while presenting Norwegian culture to a wider European audience. That's what Stavanger2008 is about, that's what we're invited to participate in, and that's what we're absolutely up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e429	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e447	When I raise the matter about the central parts of the Groruddalen, because that's what is my theme, in interpellation form and in this way, it's because I think you don't get solutions unless you listen well to each other – and then the interpellation is suitable – and think a little untraditional. When I refer to Bjørvika, it's because I have a lot of life experience in what's going on for the state to talk to the state, to talk to the state, to talk to the state – and again to the municipality. I'm not going to go into this life experience right now, except to say that there's going to be a lot of endurance and a lot of "culture massage" for everyone to act neatly, properly and properly and at the same time coherently and completely. When Bjørvika is shown as an example, it is because it has become like this, after a comprehensive process, which is now going its way. The alternative would probably be that in the worst case we had an opera in the middle of a cross, with some rail rails next to it. But there will be something else. Then what else can be debated; it belongs to the areas of the social debate. So to the Groruddalen: As far as the Groruddalen is concerned, there are two themes I don't touch, but they are important. One is the long-term work process affecting different parties, which is currently affecting a formal relationship between Oslo City at the City Council and those on the City Council, and Akershu County Municipality. It has the small popular term «Oslopackak 3», but it is about a sensible development of transport in Oslo and Akershus. I don't touch this, but it's something that's very important for the Groruddalen. Neither do I touch, but which is positive, and which has been affected in an interpellation by my side in the past, is that the inner east bet in Oslo should be carried forward towards a Groruddalen bet, also in the context of a Søndre Nordstrand bet. I addressed an interpellation on this to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who showed a broad willingness in many important measures for life in the Grorud Valley, while not taking it up against vital measures in Oslo South, Søndre Nordstrand. What is my concern today, and which I have just illustrated for my own mental enlightenment in the form of two colored maps – which I have taken with me – are the very significant properties owned by the NSB company ROM, the Railway Agency and others, from Breivoll in Groruddalen and almost to Grorud station – and at Grorud station you will see it supplemented with significant property interests from NSB/ROM. When you see this in a context, it's quite a lot. My concern as a Norwegian citizen and as a wholesaler is that we can risk a bit of bit for bit-development. The piece can be large, like the one currently being treated locally in Oslo, which is related to the Uusimaa South option, i.e. a new terminal, or it can be smaller, like the property pieces around Grorud station. When I travel an interpellation, it's because I think it's necessary to ask the question whether it can be taken some grip. I don't require any grip that won't follow any kind of game rules. You have to follow the rules of the game that exist in the form of jus and in the form of a healthy economy. But the weakest method you can use is to bring the stakeholders together, so that they have to see their shaded maps in a context. The strongest grip you can take is the grip that has been taken around Bjørvika, the creation of a development company. The development company must then be based on an understanding of thinking completely. Now, if we go into the central parts of the Groruddalen, the people who are now listening to this debate know that all the parties that are really working in Oslo have said that this has to be done. The sitting government has also said in the Soria Moria statement that they will do something about this. It should be a starting point for something to happen. But that's how it was talked about Bjørvika for a number of years, too, in such a way that the words were beautiful, but the actions were not always equally focused. Time of such experience I am now trying to raise a question as to whether you can get targeted action between property owners. Let me start by saying that the Municipality of Oslo has done what it should do, when one now has to deal with the City Council a separate plan called ‘Holy Development Plan for Groruddalen’. But life has taught me that planning authorities can crack maps beautifully and colorfully, they can make fine models, but it doesn't help unless those who have property power, talk together – either talk together through the formal rules that we know in the market, or talk together in another way that is legitimate and proper. Here's a special feature that public seats as property owners. How, then, is the public property managed? Part of it, which I'm not going to bring up here, is the Bredtvedt area, where there is a prison, but where there are also considerable opportunities to look at the entire basic structure, the cultural landscape, etc. In the central parts of the Groruddalen there is now a debate on the Uusimaa South. I, and the party I represent, believe that there is no need for the terminal as planned, because we sincerely believe that there are significant opportunities for land efficiency in order to ensure the necessary logistics at Alnabru. But I'll leave it. I'll leave it, because regardless of the outcome of that case, regardless of the outcome of the Uusimaa South case, it's pretty big properties we're talking about. When you not only look at the map, but see, as I did when I was traveling through Oslo yesterday, at these parts of Oslo from a passing car, it looks, even on a sunny day like yesterday, as if a troll stood up one day, was really grumpy and flung around so it stood after. You see narrow things that you wouldn't see anywhere else -- they just stand there, in the middle of a green meadow -- there's rails, there's railway wagons that belong to different eras, and you have to sit and cheat on: was there someone who suddenly got so much space that here you could just put something, in the certainty that this wasn't something that people cared about? This is now a little bit on the outside, but I think it's an expression of how this has been allowed to become. I think that's how it's turned out because all of these legal matriculate holders sit separately and take care of what they're going to do. Then we have to stop this against the very broad and declared will that you want to see holistic grip. Then I'm the one who knows that such grip is challenging. I also know that such grips are important. There could be different visions here. The vision I have for these parts of the Groruddalen, at least for the edge zone around these significant property areas, is that one has an opportunity to renew both housing, business and cultural development here. If we go beyond the difficult area that is now tangent to the Uusimaa South, that is, walking around the Grorud station, you have a very clear opportunity to promote this in a real way. You're also in the situation that you have a good infrastructure, that's a path. You have the opportunity to build homes for people who want to enjoy it a lot. At all, it is possible to create many of the urban structures that the metropolitan city of Oslo has in many other areas – but something has remained in the backyard. The interpolation form is selected because there is always a time for battle, and there is always a time to try to sort out the consensus. With the interpellation form I try to select the arena to sort out possible consensus, based on two simple assumptions that I have been in: 1st@item: inlistbox Here everyone wants something positive.2. It is necessary then to take a grip. In addition to the grips that happen with Groruddalen's program, which happens with Oslopakt 3, you have to grab a grip where property owners talk to each other. Let's take a look out the window: the grip that was called the Capital Action would not happen if you didn't use different foodline numbers – incidentally, owners like this. The Storting, the State, the Municipality of Oslo and other landowners – had found a form of work that allowed the centre of Oslo to begin to look like the center of a city and not just a small place in Eastern Europe before the fall of the Wall. So you've been able to raise something in such a way that you see that my interest is equal to your interest – self-interest is equal to the common interest. Then there will be a cross of thought if it is not possible to do this – with the state as a major landowner – in the very central parts of the Groruddalen. I'm assuming that that must be possible. My wonder, presented in this way, in the form of interpellation, and my practical appeal and questions to the Council of State – The government has pointed out to the Minister of the Environment to respond, what I perceive is happening on behalf of the Government – is the following: Is the Minister of the Environment prepared to assess the creation of a development company in relation to these significant properties, so that one can get a complete grip that makes the state, as the landowner acting in a proper way, act with the overall responsibility that the state has done as the foundation owner here in the heart of Oslo, and that has resulted in an uplifted Karl Johan, an upgraded Spiker Soup and an upgraded Stortingsgat – The Storting itself in Wessel’s place has contributed to part of this effort – briefly acting in such a way that one takes on a fundamental ownership responsibility that shows that one belongs to it, and shows respect for the landscape around? This is the form I have chosen, and this is the question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e486	I am happy to say that the Government has started a partnership with the Municipality of Oslo that goes beyond cooperation on property and urban development. There will be an overall effort to address issues such as transport and the environment, housing and inclusion. The Soria Moria Declaration announced the following: ‘The government will implement measures for areas of metropolitan areas facing specific challenges, such as the Groruddalen in Oslo.’ The government will strengthen cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo on the Groruddalen with objectives of sustainable urban development in the Groruddalen, with better living conditions for the inhabitants and workers of the valley. As early as January, I, together with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion, had a meeting with the City Council in Oslo. We agreed there to prepare the cooperation between the State and the Municipality of Oslo within four programme areas. Each programme will be run by various departments in the municipality of Oslo, but will be firmly anchored in different departments. The four programmes – and departments – are: environment-friendly transport in the Groruddalen, where the Ministry of Transport is a cooperation partnerAlna, green structure and cultural environment, where the Ministry of Environment is responsible for housing, urban and urban development, where the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible for social, school, growth and inclusion, coordinated by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion In addition, the Minister of Culture and the Church has offered cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo within its own programme for culture, sport and leisure. We await answers as to whether the Agency is interested in cooperation in this area as well. So as soon as the issue of a possible fifth programme is resolved, we will enter into an agreement with the City Council on cooperation in the Groruddalen, which includes: the duration of each programme shall be clarified. The government has decided that a long-term perspective for cooperation must be assumed, up to 10 years for some of the programmes. The state’s financial contribution to the various programmes will be clarified in the State budget for 2007. State and municipal authorities and the urban areas will cooperate to produce the five action programmes. Furthermore, cooperation with residents, organisations, housing law and industry shall be extended to long-term efforts to improve both the physical and social environment and the better living conditions as a whole in the Groruddalen region. Cooperation with the municipality on the action programme for Alna, green structures and the cultural environment, for which the Ministry of the Environment is responsible on the State side, has already begun. This year, we're going to contribute about five million. to the programme to be carried out in the autumn, together with the action programme on environmentally friendly transport. The other action programmes will be available during the year. The consideration of the City Council's proposal for a comprehensive development plan for the Groruddalen city council will be an important premise for the arrangement of cooperation. The State/municipality of cooperation shall be led by an annual political meeting between the Minister for Environment and the Head of City Council, together with the relevant Councils of State and the City Council. An administrative cooperation committee for the Groruddalen was established on 7 April. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment already cooperates with the Municipality of Oslo on the Environmental Zone Groruddalen. The Ministry of Transport will contribute significant resources to the development of environmentally friendly transport in the Groruddalen between 2006 and 2009, focusing on the cycling network and improving the accessibility of the collective system. Work on improving the environment around the track-based freight terminal at Alnabru has started. State-building cooperates with the Railway Agency, the Swedish Road Administration and the Oslo Municipality on plans for better access to the terminal area to avoid heavy traffic in the local environment and plans to clean up the freight terminal with planting. Oslo Municipality wants to open Alnaelva in a park belt by foot, bicycle and road along the terminal to gain continuity between Alna Park, above Lower Kalbakkvej and the open Alnaelva at Breivoll, below the terminal. Environmental measures will take place in parallel with the Railway Agency’s plans to modernise and streamline the Alnabru rail terminal and to facilitate the transport of goods by road. I am pleased that freight transport by rail is already taking market shares from freight by road. There is also active cooperation between the NSB subsidiary, ROM Property Development, which owns several large properties in Groruddalen, and the Municipality of Oslo. The Parties shall cooperate, inter alia: on the development of the Uusimaa South region. This area should be seen in the context of the planned conversion of Alnabru freight terminal. The NSB wishes to lease parts of the Uusimaa to Bama for terminal activities, closely related to the Alnabru terminal. Such a location would result in more freight being moved from a heavily loaded road network in the Groruddalen and across the railway. The close connection of the plot to the Alnabru freight terminal and to the main road network also means that the living environment will be less exposed to stress than the current transport pattern. In addition, the development of the land will contribute to the release of significant land, such as the extension of the Alna Park, and will contribute to the coherence of the green structure. Another important area of cooperation between the State and the municipality is areas around Grorud railway station. It facilitates both clean-up and urban development, better transition opportunities for public transport and better coherence in the Alna Park. So there are many actions that are now taking place in these programme areas that we have now started to work on, and I am sure that we will see very quickly visible results of the cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the State authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e532	In my opinion, the Council of State has responded in an excellent way to the issues that I said I was not going to address in my interpellation. She has commented on what needs to be done to provide active development opportunities in the Groruddalen. It is then necessary to do everything that the Council of State outlined, between the different departments and the municipality of Oslo, whether it concerns the environment, culture, housing, transport, etc. The Councils of State were also concerned with the cooperation of individual states in the country. What has been my concern on this issue is just one, and it is to be absolutely certain that the property interests of the state are seen in a total context and not just the ministry of the ministry. I did not get a clear answer to that. Departments will always manage their portfolios. They'll always make their programs. That's good, but I only have one main angle, and that's: how do you now ensure that the colored map, which I'm sitting with here, is a result of the excellent planning work of the Municipality of Oslo, which shows the plan sketch of what's on the NSB – ROM Property Development – hand, on the railway station's hand, etc., actually becomes a whole on the day this is to be done? Bit by bit, the state council presented that you had an angle of incidence here. I think it's positive that you have it. I still allow myself to say that not only must a ministerial cooperation be established with the Municipality of Oslo, which is good, but I assume, as I understand the Council of State, that those who live locally will have a great influence on this. They're the ones who wear their shoes, so they're the ones who want to know what kind of community measures they need. So back to my question: when it comes to the sum of the property interests that the Council of State had in mind in its thorough presentation, and the questions that I specifically raised, concerning the areas of Breivoll, which the Council of State was also within, to the areas of Grorud station, would it not be appropriate and wise to develop a property development company as an important tool, so that the interests of the state actually become a whole – not just an idea phase, but also a practical implementation phase? That was my specific question, and it remains my specific question even after I got a solid and proper account of what I thought was going on, based on the Soria Moria statement and on everything else that's taken up. But I'm always concerned when different state agencies are going to cooperate, Department of Department. What's been the power elsewhere is that you just found the arena across, and that those arenas across have been so strong that you've got complete solutions. If you were to fully follow the sketch of the Council of State around Uusimaa South – I am, of course, a supporter of moving as far as possible to the runway – then there are still large real estate resources to be exploited in a wise and holistic way. So my question is, is the Council of State prepared to assess the creation of a development company with regard to the significant property assets that we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e546	I want to assure the representative of Dørum that we have a very strong common concern about getting good results in Groruddalen. It is the Minister for the Environment who has the State responsibility to coordinate cooperation between the different departments towards the Municipality of Oslo. I can assure you that we will make all the assessments that are necessary to achieve good, concrete results. But I'm also concerned that we're going to get good quality, and if we're going to be able to achieve concrete results, it has to be done in the right order. That's why it was important for me to explain to Stortinget the different programs we're running. Once the programmes and cooperation are formalised, and when we know what direction we are going and what measures we are going to take to achieve the best result for the city's citizens, we are going to make assessments of both property development and the different properties belonging to different departments. We will then be able to coordinate it and make the necessary decisions. But we have to do it in the right order. Before we have adopted clear joint decisions for the different programme areas, it is completely impossible to take decisions relating, for example, to: the issue of a property development company. So now we're going to take things in the right order to make a good development in the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e551	Let me first give praise to the interpellant. I think it is important that we keep the debate warm all the time in order to create a comprehensive spice layer for the Groruddalen – a spice layer that may be the largest development project in Oslo since we built the cities. Although the representative Dørum mentions very specifically one area, I would like to address a few more points. The political will of both the state and the municipality is required to do so. Not least, it also requires an understanding outside Oslo for why a Groruddalen bet is necessary. I have published some old papers, and see that on March 17th, 1999, an official from the Ministry of Local Affairs to the Evening Post said that if the inhabitants of Groruddalen were not satisfied with the state of things, yes, they could basically just move out of Oslo. This was under the Bondevik I government. I do not suspect Doorum to have the same opinion, and I also assume that such attitudes are no longer in the government apparatus. I am pleased with the clear answer given by the Minister for the Environment in terms of cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the State, which goes much further than cooperation on property and urban development – an overall effort that includes, as the Council of State said, transport and the environment, housing and inclusion. At the same time, it is probably right that the most complex Georgian knots, especially at the bottom of the Grorud valley, belong to state authorities. It's our responsibility. But the areas around the Grorud railway station, as mentioned by the Council of State, also represent an area where it needs to be cleaned up and developed. Annual government sins in several areas of Oslo, but especially in the Groruddalen, must be a responsibility for the public, which the state and the municipality share. It's been over ten years since Oslo Arbeiderparti launched the idea of a drug city fund and a plan to improve the environment and improve housing in the oldest cities. Since then Oslo has been known to be run by the Right Party and the Advance Party. The Oslo Workers' Party took up last year again that we want to start urban renewal in older cities. We believe that there is a need for a planned upgrading of some residential areas in order to prevent deterioration. The examples of this are the installation of lifts so that older people can stay longer at home, and there are constructions of larger and more attractive apartments in block areas characterized by two and three-room apartments. This may include, inter alia: a reintroduction of the Bank's funds for upgrading and urban renewal. The Groruddalen stretches from the Old Oslo and Middle Ages to the Furuset and the city border at the Gülleråsen. Through large parts of the valley, the river Alna flows like the Groruddalen’s blue-green nerve – one of the longest and most vulnerable rivers in the capital area. The multi-use plan for Alna Umweltpark was established in due course on the basis of an initiative from the urban district. For the environment in the valley, it is important to strengthen the green lungs, open the Alna River and the Toker basin and establish several foot and bicycle paths. However, the prerequisite for a real environmental lift in Groruddalen is that we reduce pollution from road traffic. Here the lid above the E6 is an important requirement from the valley in connection with Oslopackak 3 and the national transport plan for the next period. It is also important to have cross-sectional connections and not least to facilitate so-called park and ride solutions north of the valley, which I believe has been a demand from people in the valley for years. Finally, let me say, even though it's not a theme here and now, but it's a theme for the Groruddalen and for Groruddalen's future, that it's affordable that there is also a focus on growth and inclusion from the Government. There are urban areas in the Grorud Valley – and it's not long since we had an interpellation about Søndre Nordstrand, which also Dørum was behind – where there are very many minorities and very many languages. Getting free core time in kindergartens in a district of Groruddalen – preferably more – is an important wasteland for a planned inclusion policy in Oslo. I would like to add that achieving a good inclusion policy must be a national effort, whether it be the Groruddalen or other areas in Oslo with a high proportion of minorities. It is important that all of us who live here in society – especially Oslo – can do that side by side, and that everyone is functioning in the urban community of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e572	There were many honorary words from the Council of State, but as the interpellant was about, she did not answer Dørum's questions. It's a little disappointing. When she went up here the second time, she said that things had to be done in the right order. I can't help but realize that what the interpellant takes up, namely, looking at the properties as a whole, is the right way to go. I hope that the Council of State will have a better answer when she sums up the debate. Another point that I would like to raise is that it is important that the representatives of the government parties speak with one tongue in the city boardroom and in the main hall. We have seen countless examples, including in the newspapers, of having great ambitions in the campaign and preaching what you want to do in the Grorud Valley. Then comes the Government's plans, and then it's very small bet. The 2 million. The government budget for the current year is abominable in relation to the ambitious plans launched in the election campaign. Remembering two years' time, the representative Bøhler – over a whole page in the Evening Post evening number – said that you should have an environmental lid over the E6. We haven't seen anything about it. So to the representative Nybakk, who's talking about refurbishment of dwellings. I guess that's good. But is it a public responsibility to clean up the homes of people? I doubt it. I should have had someone to clean up my home, but I'm actually doing it myself. In the inner east of Oslo, the dwellings and façades have been refurbished. And what has happened? Those who lived there have moved out, with great profit on the apartments they bought for a cheap money when it was due. Is that a public task? It looks nice, but is it a public problem? I doubt it. It is important to clarify that the parties in Oslo City Council, which are the same parties that sit in the main hall, agree on bets in Groruddalen. Now we have also received Søndre Nordstrand. It is up to the representatives of the Government to deliver the goods they have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e583	I will also be allowed to thank the representative for bringing up an important area. Let me also thank the Council of State for a full answer. The fact that the country is the landowner in the Grorud Valley is an important aspect of the development that will take place there. It is true, as the representative Nybakk also pointed out, that the state, with its behaviour in the Groruddalen and its disposal of the areas that have helped to create many of the problems that the valley is struggling with today. In this sense, there must be no doubt that the state has a significant responsibility to have contributed to creating the problems in the valley. The State as a property owner must also have a significant responsibility to be involved in the task that needs to be solved for the Groruddalen. It is important that we have come so far to work that we have a comprehensive development plan that shows that the Groruddalen is the valley of opportunity in the future, and not just a place that is stamped as the site with many major problems, although it is also true. The resources in the valley are huge. The axis from the Middle Ages through the Grorud Valley and up in the fields has an exciting cultural and natural history, with a significant potential for development. Alna River we've already started the upgrade. It's clear that it's going to have to go further to get it right. It is also clear that the way the state manages its properties in the valley will be important in terms of how far we go. In the interpellant, there are many issues that are important for our overall development. I can't help but say two words about Oslopackak 3, because I'm going with a little nagging feeling about what's going on right now. Can we get an Oslopackack 3 that's good enough for the Groruddalen? It is clear that the promise we made in Bjørvika was absolutely essential for the area to become what it will be. But without a transport solution for Bjørvika, of course, nothing else had come into place either. If we are to achieve the promise of a broad consensus in the Stortinget, we are totally dependent on the priority given to the Groruddalen and the Groruddalen challenges in Oslopackak 3. Regardless of other measures, it will be involved in making such heavy premises for the development of the valley, so I really hope that the state, in cooperation with the affected states, will get that promise. Then it is also important in the broad context that the investment that has been in Oslo's inner east should continue in Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand. We definitely believe that it should be at least the same level as the investment in the inner East. Then I must also be allowed to say that when we were campaigning in Oslo, there were not so few who were a little skeptical about the prospect that a local councilman from the Central Party might come. The center part is not very big in Oslo, as we know, and many people may have been a little worried about the attention, for example. against the Groruddalen was going to be big enough if that were to happen. In that context, I would like to commend the Central Party Minister for having just taken an initiative, and for her commitment to the valley. I think it promises well for the further cooperation. Then we're also going to have to bring that Groruddalen is a good place to live. There is a place that has great opportunities to become one of the most exciting urban areas in Oslo in terms of future development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e600	Let me start where the representative Sørensen ended, namely by establishing – and I think there must be reason to do so sometimes – that too many, for most people, Groruddalen is a very good place to live. In the public debate, it is also a tangible balance to describe the Groruddalen in such a way that it is perceived to be something quite different from what it is. There are environmental challenges, housing, etc., but there is also a very fine place to live. Now the state council and several others were in the living environment. Let's just look at the latest developments: the rehabilitation of the dwellings under the control of the housing laws of the Roman Sauce. This gives a further rise to the housing standard in a large area of Groruddalen. The same can be said of many other living environments. It is probably also difficult for the inter-pellant – and all praise to him for addressing the matter – to sort the debate, because it is partly due to concrete measures: Oslopacket 3, the programme areas mentioned by the Council of State – hopefully five. And so it goes on that I perceive that the interpellant is concerned about: when we now have all these good wishes and the will to do something for the Groruddalen, how are we going to organise that work as best we can, so that it becomes the best possible effect of the bet that will happen? When we're going to have Oslopackakt3 and the programme areas that the Council of State was in, it goes without saying that a good organisation of the total work in terms of areas is the basic prerequisite for getting a full impact of money to be laid down in this area. The Council of State mentioned four programme areas that are agreed with the Municipality of Oslo, and I can't help but understand that the Municipality of Oslo should respond positively to the last area as well. As regards transport, Alna, housing and location development and social conditions, it is clear that many of these areas, these different programme areas, are intertwined. Then I agree with the inter-pellant that we need, perhaps specifically on land use, a superstructure – in the sense that we know that the individual unit, the individual institution, is fenced around and its own, and perhaps not always able to see the whole of the bet that is going to happen. In that way, I think the Council of State has signaled a positive willingness, at least, to meet what Odd Einar Dørum has brought up, namely to look at the model of Bjørvika, and which I believe has been quite crucial in order to bring together a positive urban development there. Then we can all have our wishes. Me and the Christian People's Party have a wish that around the railway area on Grorud we might be able to see a college, a department of higher education, also because it matters to the environment and what offers Groruddalen can have. We've seen a children's museum in the Groruddalen, also to develop the area in a good way. But my challenge, too, is that once the Council of State has taken things in the right order, as she said, I really hope that the conclusion is that this development work is so important and there are so many actors who are going to participate in it, that you have to have a superstructure to ensure that the whole thing gets the best possible at the end. Then I actually think there's a reason to look at what's been done in Bjørvika on the organizational plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e619	I am pleased with both the outline and the angle of the inter-pellant and with the Minister's response. I believe that what Odd Einar Dørum addresses about the state’s ownership power – how it can be used in the development of the Groruddalen – is a crucial question in terms of getting the initiative to become concrete. It's a question that's useful to discuss here, because it's been so little affected until now. The big project that's about opening up along Alnaelva and releasing the land there is very dependent on getting a joint act from the state. An example of this is the problem mentioned by the Council of State and Dørum about Uusimaa South. It is an area along Alnaelva that, in the plans for opening up the river – the release of green areas there – was one of the main areas hoped to be liberated. There are good arguments to allow for the development of rail freight, etc., but it is important that this is done in a concentrated area. So one thing that then becomes a cross of thought in terms of the overall behaviour of state businesses, as Dørum brought up, is that Uusimaa South is owned by ROM Property Development AS. But there is also an empty space called the NRF space – now it becomes detailed – it is located on the Alnabru terminal, all the way to the railway. You can get an even more concentrated area of freight transport if you put it there than if you put it in the Uusimaa South area, which is now proposed by the ROM Property Development. So my question and my problem, which I'd like to ask the Council of State to take along as the Government has engaged in the issue of Uusimaa South, is whether it wouldn't be wiser to consider the NRF area to place the needs of the NSB and Bamas for rail freight, close to the other freight activities there. From then on you will be able to get even better transport solutions up to E6 – it is now planned to get an overall road solution up to E6. I think this is a concrete example of Dørum's problem: is ROM acting for itself, or is it thought about whether the Posten's site, which is closer to the Alnabru terminal, can be used? It is at least unused now and was originally intended for a make change related to what was the postal terminal that is now up on Lørenskog. With regard to the overall behaviour of state agencies, this also concerns the provision of a route through the Alnabru terminal. Now this becomes local again, but as the opening of Alnaelva and the green suit is a big thing in the Groruddalen bet, it becomes a paradox that you haven't come any more with this route. Now it stops abruptly towards the Alnabru terminal and therefore becomes quite meaningless, before you open up against Bryn and into the city. You can't get any further, and then no one is going that way – at least very few. So I mean that to get to these concrete grips and not just leave them drawings in an overall plan for the Groruddalen, the coordinated use of the state's ownership power, the state's role in the Groruddalen, is a very important angle. I'll do a couple of other examples of the same thing. It concerns the development of the E6 lid. I heard that the representative from the Progress Party was in on this earlier today and raised doubts as to whether this would happen. Now, as far as I know, there is broad agreement on this in the debate on Oslo Package 3 in Oslo City Council, and the Prime Minister has given very positive signals about it. So it's a surprising signal if the Progress Party is now reporting out of that discussion. In any case, an E6 cap will result in a major de-liberation of state areas, municipal areas – OBOS has plots towards E6 – which should be seen in the plans for the development of the Groruddalen. So we need to figure out how to free both the land and the financial resources by developing the areas that are being liberated by an E6 cap and taking this into account in the preparation and investigation of the lid and its significance. I believe there are many things that could have been taken up here, because the government has many other properties in the Groruddalen. I think that the proposal for a Dørum on a development company to get an overall idea of the use of the country's properties is a positive angle, which should be considered in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e631	Then I'll have to be clearer. I have six and a half years of government experience, and I have many years of experience in how things work, and how they're going to happen in the right order. That experience has taught me that if you're going to get something, you have to get control of the property power that's present, that's on the government's hand, because you don't do it, you risk suddenly facing possible gaps between the ideals and the desires you have, and the reality. I have no doubt that the areas of development to which the Minister for the Environment pointed and which focus on important individual local actions – whether of short-term environmental or cultural – are starting. Of course I'm not in doubt about that. Nor am I in doubt that you will finally be able to solve Oslopackak 3 in a reasonable way. What I'm actually unsure about – that's why I promoted the interpellation – is whether the significant property interests that are partly owned by ROM, partly by the Railway Agency, etc., are properly assessed. Now there is actually an open debate in Oslo – not whether to move transport to the track, not whether to have a reasonable logistical use, but there is a debate, specifically, that the Labour Party has said quite openly that they are leading, on what is the best solution to it. In this context, two parties of the City Council, Left and SV, have said that they believe that this positive development that the Council of State called for – moving more goods to the path – can be achieved by streamlining the areas of Alnabru. My point is that regardless of what you think about it, and as it's a fair matter to discuss, the property is large. With regard to my experience with different property owners, I don't want to say anything negative about it, except that you can often have a tendency to drive what you call suboptimization in the organizational language, that is, to see your own behavior for yourself. The risk is so obvious that until there are binding superstructures, obliging practical instruments, that state property interests exist coordinated, still – with all confidence in her sincerity and willingness to stand on – will be a very critical driver to the Minister for the Environment, just as I was in my own time, in a kindly manner, in cooperation with good forces to get to the Capital Action, in the same way that I have been with representatives sitting in this Chamber, to get to the Bjørvika Development. I think it's absolutely necessary, I think it's very necessary. So I want to encourage the Council of States to get an additional program on their list. The additional program is called: How can state property interests in the Groruddalen be coordinated in accordance with the overall action that the Government is now discussing positively with the Municipality of Oslo? What kind of superstructures should you do in such a context? I would strongly encourage the immediate start of the investigation, so that there is no risk that it will fail in the implementation of the positive measures outlined by the Council of State, which she should have commended for her sketching.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e651	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have this debate in Stortinget, because the debate confirms to me that it is absolutely necessary that we be able to take full action if we are to achieve good solutions in Groruddalen. We need to see the relationship between property development and housing development, transport, health, living conditions, land development, etc. I am also pleased that the debate has confirmed that we need to do everything we can, various actors, in order to achieve a good interaction between state authorities, different departments and the Municipality of Oslo. So the government has decided that it is the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry for the Environment to coordinate the efforts of the State. It includes both the development of programmes that I have outlined, and the development of forms of cooperation between the municipality and state authorities. I think here we're going to see the results of that we're able to develop forms of cooperation that are a little untraditional, where one dares to go up some new tracks. It also includes – and I want to confirm it to Dørum – assessing which structures are appropriate to achieve what we want. I am very pleased that there are critical drivers in the staging room. It is necessary for any state council and for any government, and I look forward to being able to come to the Storting and report more on the concrete results we achieve, and also on how we will organise ourselves in the future to achieve good results in the Storing. It will be the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Government. It also includes, of course, assessment of state ownership systems. All the assessments we're going to take in a good way in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e660	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e678	Human beings have a fundamental responsibility for managing creation. It concerns natural resources, economic and human resources. Nature gives us great opportunities, but nature also gives us great responsibility. We are obliged to protect our basis of life in such a way that we hand over the globe to our descendants in at least as good a condition as when we were given responsibility for it. These are principles on which I base my political work. Nice words – yes, maybe – but they only get relevance when we and I deal in concrete matters. We all have to take environmental considerations into account on a daily basis. We are producing more and more waste. Only in the last decade has the annual amount of waste increased by 18 pst. Each of us produces almost two tons of waste a year. It's huge quantities. In our rich part of the world, we consume of common global resources at a pace that we cannot continue. We are overexploiting resources that often cannot be renewed or replaced. Lack of fresh water, productive land and loss of genetic diversity are consequences of our over-exploitation. Greenhouse effect, climate change, pollution from emissions of chemicals and pollution of water and soil show that our activity reduces the natural qualities that our descendants need to meet their needs. Global environmental problems can seem overwhelming, and they are. But we can start by taking small steps each of us. None of us can do anything, but we can all do anything. We can start by sorting the waste, which I hope everyone does. We can use less chemicals when we wash our clothes. And we can also buy fewer things. It's good with reuse, we'll keep doing that. But as Frtex himself says, they have become our collective conscience. They get 11,000 tons of clothes every year. They don't have the opportunity to take advantage of all of this. We know that quality of life does not grow with material ability. In Norway, we're rich in things, but maybe we're poor in time. Too many people have a sense of futility. The Chairman of the Worldwatch Institute, Øystein Dahle, says this: ‘It’s up to us now that we’re not cowboys who can say yes to everything because material resources are out of bounds. The truth is that the thin layer of soil and air in which we live is to count as thick as the paint on a globe. Yeah, we're cowboys who might have to slow down the pace and change our attitudes. I know that the Council of State is concerned about this, and therefore I challenge her to contribute concrete measures to start a change of mind among us Norwegians. Unfortunately, all statistics show that it is difficult to break the link between GDP growth and consumption growth and subsequent growth in waste production. We therefore need to focus more on waste generation and on preventing waste from occurring. We must ensure that waste resources are used and that waste that is not exploited is treated in a way that is environmentally sound. The impact of waste on the environment depends, for example, on: of TobCoptic month 6 - ShortNamePossessive the amount of waste generated by the composition of the waste, the amount of waste unlawfully handled, the amount of waste shipped to the final treatment standard of the waste treatment plants; I think one of the most important things we can do is reduce the amount of waste. And the best way to do that is to consume less. But then we also have to re-use and bet on recycling. In the case of material recovery, materials may be used as raw material in new production, while often reducing energy consumption in relation to the production of new raw material. The share of waste recovered from households has increased fantastically between 1992 and 2004, with a total of 40 pst. This is great. We therefore see that good return arrangements in municipalities and in the business community contribute to the recycling of a large proportion of the packaging. When arrangements are in place, it is important to inform people about what to sort and where to sort, so that it is as effective as possible. Both countries, municipalities, businesses and environmental protection organisations must continue to inform about the collection and recovery of waste. We know that information activities work. The waste company FjellVAR has been assigned to the country's most efficient waste company. And what's the prescription? Indeed, the prescription is close and frequent contact with the population and is constantly informing about how the waste should and should be sorted. Waste disposal contributes to the major environmental problems, as it leads to greenhouse gas emissions of methane. The EU landfill directive requires all biodegradable waste to be reduced by 50 pst by 2009. in relation to the 1995 level. Numbers from Bellona show that waste goes much more to landfill in Norway than in Sweden and Denmark. I believe that landfilling waste is pushing our problems over to the next generation, because emissions will continue for a long time to come. I therefore ask the State Council to consider imposing the landfill ban earlier, perhaps already from 1 January 2008. It will give less waste to landfill faster. It is impossible to recover or sort out the entire waste problem. Increased consumption does not automatically lead to increased waste problems, whether we ensure an environmentally sound and functioning industrial cycle for residues such as raw materials or fuels. Norwegian Industry believes that the potential for energy use from waste is approximately 4 TWh in Norway. SFT agrees with these calculations. Energy use must therefore be an important and necessary part of our waste policy. Instead of landfilling waste, we need to use it as energy, so that it can also lead to a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. There are now many who contribute to the proper management of waste. In my own county, we have Sarpsborg Energy Recovery at Borregaard, which is one of the best facilities in the world. There is a safe incineration of waste and recovery of energy. In Rakkestad there is also a small recovery facility that delivers steam to customers in Rakkestad center. I think we need more of these small plants. But if we're going to get it done, we have to do something about the framework conditions. They have to get better. We almost didn't get any new capacity on this in the last few years. So what does it have to do? Well, I think we need to change the way the waste system is designed. Today, high energy use is not rewarded. It weakens the profitability of installations related to high-energy industries. Thus, we explore good alternatives to the use of fossil fuels in industry. Secondly, the waste market must be more competitive. Dumping prices for landfills must be stopped. Today, price dumping to landfill in Norway and favourable export prices to Sweden make it uncertain to bet. We must have an energy market that is more competitive, and I also believe that more favourable financing solutions are needed for the establishment of production facilities and infrastructure for district heating and the use of thermal energy in industry. Our lifestyle leads to major environmental problems. To change this, we need an integrated instrument, and we also need new initiatives to be taken at all times. I therefore ask the Council of State and the rest of the Government to consider five concrete measures, which I have now addressed in my article. To repeat these: promote concrete measures contributing to a change of attitude among the Nordics to consume less few higher landfill charges and to the early introduction of the landfill ban to introduce a charging system that promotes higher energy efficiency-safe investments in energy recovery facilities and heat security distribution infrastructure that a financing scheme is also established for renewable heat production;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e751	I agree that we are still facing major challenges in the waste field. Waste volumes are increasing and waste management has the potential to contribute to major environmental problems, in particular related to greenhouse gas emissions and environmental pollutants. Therefore, although we have come a long way in many of the areas of waste, there is a need for some new approaches to waste policy. An offensive policy in the field of waste cannot only reduce the environmental problems that the waste itself contributes to. Waste reduction and recycling are probably so much about efficient resource use, which also contributes to reducing environmental pressures from resource extraction and energy production in other sectors. The government has high ambitions for development in this area, and we will take active action in all the main areas of waste policy. First of all, we're going to work to reduce the amount of waste. Secondly, we need to increase recovery. Thirdly, we want to ensure that virtually all hazardous waste is properly treated. The government is particularly concerned with combining a positive welfare development with a reduced amount of waste and a better use of resources. These include: to develop an efficient and forward-looking resource policy. I will therefore, as the Government announced in the Soria Moria Declaration, establish an undertaking for the prevention and recovery of waste. NOU 2002:19 ‘Waste prevention — A vision of quality of life, consumer awareness and circular strength’ is central to this work and contributes to the premise of the new enterprise. We are now working to define the objectives for which the enterprise is to work, the instruments it is to use, and the organisation it is to have. My goal is for the company to make a significant contribution to reducing the growth we see today in the amounts of waste. With regard to the amounts of waste generated, the Government will also work to maximise the share of waste used. Among other things, we want to work to influence several municipalities to give their inhabitants a greater real opportunity for increased reuse. Today we recover about 70 pst. the waste. We have approx. 43 pst. recycling of materials, while approx. 19 pst. energy is used and approx. 5 pst. composted. To achieve an even higher recycling rate, we work among others. the introduction of a ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste from 2009. The prohibition is primarily an effective climate action because methane emissions are reduced when biodegradable waste is moved away from landfills. At the same time, however, the ban will require more capacity for recycling – both material recovery, biological treatment and combustion with energy use. In addition, the Government has announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that it will facilitate increased use of waterborne heat and establish good financing mechanisms for district heating and bioenergy. This will also help to improve the use of energy in waste. The construction industry represents one of the largest waste streams. The government is now in the process of developing a regulatory framework that will make it mandatory for all municipalities to require waste plans in construction, rehabilitation and demolition matters. It will facilitate much better recycling solutions and provide better control of significant amounts of hazardous waste, such as PCBs and mercury. Wastes containing pollutants present a particular challenge. I have the ambition to contribute to better protection for nature and people from environmental toxins and other health and environmental hazardous chemicals. A prerequisite for success in this work is, among other things: ensuring the proper treatment of hazardous waste and also reducing the amount of hazardous waste generated. We are now working on a news report on health and environmental hazards. The effort to reduce the amount of hazardous waste generated will have a central place in the notification. The notification will be submitted during the autumn. As important as preventing the generation of hazardous waste, it is important to ensure the environmentally sound treatment of hazardous waste. Therefore, SFT is now working to further develop the strategy for increasing the collection and proper treatment of hazardous waste. As part of this work, a continuous process is ongoing to assess the need for new measures and instruments. Continued positive developments in the area of waste depend on other than good intentions and intentions. Efforts from all teams are required – not least from municipalities and businesses. They're the ones who do the job and make the important decisions, which determine actual development. In addition to further developing policy, I will therefore also work to create a strong and proper commitment to the environmental issue and the good waste solutions, both among decision-makers in municipalities and businesses and among the majority of people. In the end, I would like to say that I am pleased with all the concrete proposals that were made and that have been given to the Government. I promise that we will take all these with us in the further work, and look forward to further progress in waste policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e781	I thank you for the Council's response and also for her commitment in this area. We are facing major challenges, as the Council of State said. Then it's important that we have commitment. But as the council said, it will require efforts from both municipalities and businesses, and I also believe from us as a congregation here on the Stortinget. The Council of State states that the ban on landfill is an effective climate action when it is introduced. We agree on that. I hope, as I said in my post, that it is possible for the climate to change the time when this deposit order can come into force. I would like to read a little poem that fits now that the spring – perhaps also summer – has arrived and is about our consumption. It is a small poem called «The Spring of Spring»: ‘In search of feathers. Shall furniture our houses, We need furniture! - There's my house and There's yours-- Divided between stones, with railings. We find the best taxes: A zaloflaske, a box, a glass corrugated. Grown-ups call it garbage. For us it's food, waitress, household articles. All we need. On the stone table there is a lovely one fishball box with the foliage.’» It's reuse. We remember that, and we hope that our children will also find this kind of trash in the rocks. But at the same time, we're going to try to make sure that there's not so much of this kind of junk in the rocks, even if the game needs it. It's about taking together new roofs, active grips, as the Council of State said, that we can get our waste handled. But I think the biggest challenge at this point is in new combustion plants and in infrastructure that can use the energy that we once again as consumers need in a society where, unfortunately, we are using more and more energy in our daily lives. I believe that here has the opposition, including my party, the Christian People's Party, and the Government's parallel vision, for which I hope we can work together, for the benefit of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e827	I also want to confirm what the representative said, that here we have a common interest, both the Government and all the parties on the Storting, as I have seen and heard the commitment. Just a brief comment on the representative’s wish regarding the ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste from 2009. I share the desire to get it in place as quickly as possible, but at the same time we know that we need some time to get it implemented, because the ban will require more capacity, both for material recovery, biological treatment and combustion with energy use. It's to get all of these things in place that we're also currently assessing it so that 2009 is the most realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e839	I want to commend the interpellant for addressing this question. It is true that with increasing consumption and production, the amount of waste is also increasing. Because even if the waste policy has as its objective no. 1 to reduce the amount of waste has increased by up to 20 pst. in the last 10 years. It is a major challenge to solve the problems of waste in the future. Fortunately, from the early 1990s onwards, the waste stream has turned from landfill to material recovery and energy recovery. I believe that the driving forces in this have been state instruments and an increasing professionalisation within the field, which is mainly attributable to the many intercommunal companies that have done a good job. In my region, Salt in Northern Ireland, it has been found that good source sorting solutions with a high degree of material recovery give a high awareness of the population, and not least of the children. In regions with good source sorting, it appears that the increase in the total waste volume is smaller, and there are also good results in the case of collected hazardous waste. Nevertheless, we know that some of the hazardous waste is being diverted. I am pleased that this government will work actively to ensure that all hazardous waste is properly treated. It is important to identify even better instruments in cooperation with the actors involved. In electrical and electronic waste, very good systems with a high level of collection have been developed. I believe that this is due to producer arrangements where the producer and importer are responsible for collecting the waste and providing it with a reassuring treatment. My question is, can we use that model for several fractions in the hazardous/special waste category? Some will probably protest about it, because the price will be slightly higher when purchased, but at the end of the day it is the consumer who indirectly pays for the management of this waste regardless of the cost of renovation. In Norway we sort up to 70 pst. the waste and all this is destined for recovery. With us in the north it has been necessary that the remaining part could be deposited, which has led to a reasonable price for consumers. As the years have passed, methane gas emissions have also been reduced from these landfills, but we still have some leachate. There must be more research, and demands must be made for what comes out of this leachate. As from 2009, landfilling of biodegradable waste shall be prohibited. We also have to solve that problem in the north. We don't have many combustion plants there. I think it's one facility for all three Northern Norwegian states, and it's in Finnmark. It would hardly be profitable to build up a lot of facilities with the distances we have. That is why I am pleased with the state budget for this year that, in order to avoid the unintended consequences of the deposit ban, an authorisation will be put in place to grant exemptions from the ban following specific assessments, focusing on environmental and district considerations. We all understand that if this waste had to be transported several tens of miles per. Today, neither is good environmental and climate policy. Here, we need to find solutions that are environmentally friendly and at the same time do not impose high costs on our citizens. We need to look at both the climate accounting and the societal benefits of this. The Soria Moria Declaration has confirmed the establishment of a State Waste Prevention and Recovery Company under the Ministry of Environment. There are many offensive opportunities here to work for good waste solutions that have a future in them and that are suitable for the different parts of the country. Finally, I would like to mention waste as an energy carrier. From a problem, the waste of the future will be a resource. Energy recovery, where possible, is a good use of resources and not least a sound environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e860	It is commendable that the representative Holten Hemdal addresses the waste debate. There have been many fine and general desires, hopes and thoughts about the rational use of waste that it is not difficult to share. But the first thing that struck me when I heard that this debate was coming to an end was that it was nice that the Christian People's Party did not solve this when they put themselves in government for the last four years, and even two and a half years before that. They even had the Environment Minister in the last two years, and then they had plenty of opportunities to solve a lot of what the representative Holten Hemdal is now asking for from the current government. But now state councillor Bjørnøy has said that there was nothing left in the drawer after Knut Arild Hareide went off, so it is possible that one must start from scratch in this area. State Councillor Bjørnøy would like to comment on this. In terms of a landfill ban and speeding up this, it is a noble goal, but the most important thing is that we get a waste policy that works, not that it is implemented as quickly as possible. If the ban is accelerated until 1 January 2008, we can, for example: be sure that we get a code that people respect, and that we don't just get a wild-west mood in some pig-grown strokes where they have no alternatives but to dump waste in nature because the landfills are closed? Or will we get much more export of this waste to Sweden because there are no alternatives built up in Norway? For example, how are we going to do this? solve the problem of waste in these pig-grown struts when one is not allowed to landfill there? You want to build combustion plants everywhere, or you want to build combustion plants, for example. get a very large transport of trash over long distances in order to be able to make use of it for recovery or incineration in those areas? In many of the municipalities I've been travelling in, it's a fact that you have to look for quite a long time before you find building masses that are large enough to take advantage of the heat that comes from garbage incineration. It's not a point to burn garbage just to fire the crows, is it? On the other hand, as I said, I want to be constructive and await the work of the Government in this matter. A big message about this would be very good, because then one set of things gets in context. I am betting that there will be realistic representations of costs and, not least, time dimensions, so that we can have a waste policy that works as a whole. I hope the ambitions are transformed into good, feasible measures. Let me illustrate this with a little concern: on Jären there is a recovery facility that has until recently received windows with PCBs. In fact, they did so well that they received verbal praise from the county's environmental department when it was visiting. But in retrospect, the county decided that there would be a separate room to deal with these PCB windows. It did not have this recovery station, and thus it was refused further receipt of PCB windows. The consequence is, according to those who travel a lot on the Iron, that now these windows are burning there, because it's too far to drive to another recycling station and deliver them there. So good intentions in the law are the practical consequences. A little additional information in this particular case is that the recycling station had even applied to expand its building mass, but it was trained by the municipality. So it's not just easy for those who deal with environmentally friendly waste management either. I hope you take that into account. In the end, to show that the opposition stands together: I was caught by the cultural element of the representative Holten Hemdal and was also challenged from the rear bench by SV. To show that the Progress Party is also a cultural party, we should really have had with the Battle of Janitsjar here, and then I could play a sweeping march dedicated to Norwegian cleaning workers. Unfortunately, I received such short notice that I did not even get my own clarinet. But I have written a little poem that follows up Holten Hemdal's call not to throw garbage in the beach zone. It is as simple as the following: Roses are red. Both large and small. Move ~a onto the wastebasket. on the wave blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e881	Now probably the president wouldn't have allowed the Battle of Janitsjar to play in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e884	Unfortunately, I am not able to match the lyrical abilities of neither interpellanten nor Solvik-Olsen, but with a little better time on me, I should have been able to match the text in Solvik-Olsen's strofer. But that's not why I asked for the floor. This is an interpellation that has many facets in it – and many inputs. That's the consequences or the types of our consumption society we're really discussing, how it works when the distribution globally doesn't turn out to be the way it should have been or could have been. I don't think we should forget that there is no lack of effort every day there is a meeting here in the house to consume and use even more. The pressure we have every day to use even more of society's resources, of what we've managed to save and set aside to meet future challenges, it doesn't diminish, with the consequences this has at last. I also think that we should not go into that pitfall to give the impression that a state of misery is the picture of what is happening in Norway in this area. I think we actually have a lot to be proud of and satisfied with in Norway in this area. There's developed a lot of knowledge, and we already have a lot of technology in the whole country. But the challenge doesn't get any smaller for that reason. That means there's no need to take any rest cuts. I assume that's the background for the interpellant to address this question in today's interpellation. The challenge in the future – whether we stick our heads in the sand or stay awake – will be to bring the concept of welfare growth into line with the challenge of reducing the amount of waste. I think that's the way we have to move. I believe that in this area, we need to bet on and research into developing standard solutions for both waste management, landfill and material, for how to deal with what is left after the first, second or third time consumption. Longer lifetime and faster recycling must be the goal of a consumer society like ours. But it is also about not making the way to source sorting, landfilling or waste management more difficult. Previous speaker, Solvik-Olsen, brought a rhetorical question to the interpellant: why didn't the previous government do anything? I think that if you had taken the trouble – but it may not have been possible in the last few days – to look at what was actually done, you would see that it was done quite a lot. Among other things, by revising the Pollution Act in 2002, steps have been taken that have brought the world forward in this area, but there is still a long way to go. Defining responsibility and making it profitable, not least for business, to do source sorting, handling waste, etc. is a goal we have to pursue. Availability of waste management is an obvious task. Opening hours, availability and opportunities to get rid of waste and to have it handled professionally include: ways we have to focus more on, so it doesn't just end up with speeches that belong in May. Finally, for those who suggested that little has been done, I would remind you that after several governments had given promises to bet on getting rid of 50 pst. of the country's mercury, actually granted to the previous government 30 million. to this end, by opening up the possibility of dealing with this in the Mo i Rana. I see that there has been no follow-up in this area, but there are no challenges here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e899	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing an environmental policy issue that has not been high on the environmental policy agenda in the last ten years. This issue has not really been on the top of the environmental policy agenda since the Environment Minister's name was Thorbjørn Berntsen, and it is beginning to be a good few years ago. The situation description provided by both the Minister for the Environment and the interpellant today, namely that we have improved and improved on material recovery, but that we have not managed to do anything about what is our main problem, namely that the total amount of waste continues to increase is correct. It was also the situation description exactly five years ago, when the previous government, Stoltenberg, recognized this and set down a public sample to investigate what we can do to ensure that the amount of waste does not increase. The committee presented its study in the spring of 2002 — it is a rather thick investigation with many good proposals for action to address the main challenge, namely to prevent waste from occurring. Unfortunately, the investigation has been a disappointment in the Ministry of the Environment, but it was revived in the Soria Moria Declaration, where one of the main proposals of the investigation was taken up, that is, what the Council of State referred to, to get a state-owned waste prevention company – something we in SV have a little spookyly called 'To die for Génova'. It is that waste is resources on the way. It is also true that in Norway we have not been good enough to think about material and resource efficiency. I think we've become pretty good gradually to think about energy efficiency, but we wonder ourselves if we can't also take the material and resource perspective. The interpellant mentioned Øystein Dahle – he uses an image to describe what is our challenge in developing the circuit society for the future. He describes the challenge we have globally as having to move to a spaceship economy. Because if we ignore the sunlight, the earth is a closed system. Nothing is going to happen, and nothing is going to go away. I remember the running notes we in Nature and Youth distributed in the 1980s, when I was active there, then we asked a basic good question that is relevant to waste policy, and that was the question, where is away? In the circular society in the earth we live on, there is no place that is gone. Things have to get into a circuit. It has also become more difficult to prevent waste from occurring, when it is cheaper to buy a new bicycle than to repair the old one. And that's because things have become cheap and labor has become expensive. And it's a big challenge, which has to do with globalisation. Last year the UN presented the big report called Millennium Ecosystem Assessment Synthesis Report, which just takes up the absence of the pricing of the services that nature provides, but also mentions that we do not value the environmental pressures that occur when virgin material is taken out in other countries, which is why things can be so fantastically cheap, because costs are shifted to future generations and to the environment – and often on the environment in countries far away from where these goods are produced. The interpellant was also concerned with the relationship between energy and waste policy, and I am following the interpellant far ahead. It's a dilemma about bioenergy – we can take another word for it: forest waste – whether we're going to somehow take it as an energy source and treat it with support schemes, or treat it as a waste that's a problem. There we have some border crossings we have to go through, both in terms of the final processing fee and the way we organize it. Let me end by saying that I agree with the interpellant that we also need both new and further awareness-raising work, and we need support for the work done in the municipalities. And I think that a state enterprise, whether called Genova or not, can make an important contribution to getting to it under a motto that we're going to create increased quality of life with reduced resource consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e915	Our well-being is based on ever-increasing production and consumption. Evolution does not take into account that it is our common resources and our common environment we consume, at a pace that cannot continue. Developments are unsustainable. Emissions of greenhouse gases, depletion of the ozone layer, shortage of fresh water, deforestation and use of toxic chemicals show that nature has reached its limit of tolerance. We in the rich part of the world are destroying the ecological basis of life with the environmental problems of our lifestyle and our way of life. We have to do something with our consumption so that we can deliver the earth's resources and environment in good condition to our descendants. And we need to distribute well-being so that international poverty is eradicated. We need to reverse development and reduce our production and break the consumption spiral. All kinds of goods create small or large environmental problems, both when they are produced and when they are wasted. The most environmentally friendly is to ensure that the quantity of waste is minimised. We must then prevent and prevent waste from occurring. This includes, inter alia: making better use of resources. Our goal is that the amount of waste should be lower than economic growth. By 2010 the amount of waste destined for final treatment shall be approximately 20 pst. of the generated amount of waste. To achieve that goal, we must succeed in consuming less and producing less waste. It takes courage to set high targets for the whole of social development, and it will be demanding. We are rich in Norway and have a high purchasing power. We have to reverse the evolution. In this work we must be specific. Firstly, as consumers, we need to be aware that different needs can be satisfied in ways other than by buying new things. Life doesn't get better the more we consume, the more we own. More leisure time and experiences are a good alternative to buying more things. Secondly, alternatives to new purchases, both in the form of second-hand trade and the use of repair services, such as tailors, shoemakers and power workshops, need to be provided. We need to make more products with a long life span and for recycling. When we produce new goods, we need to use recycled material. Fourth, it is important to treat waste as a resource and to use it instead of fossil energy. None of these measures will be possible if we do not have conscious consumers with knowledge and positive environmental attitudes. It's about attitudes and conscious choices. The Christian People's Party believes that more concrete initiatives should be taken to influence attitudes and behaviour of households in a more sustainable direction. Waste policy has been largely concerned with the proper management of waste. Here a lot has improved, but something remains. State pollution control has recently revealed that seven out of ten waste dumps have too poor control of the waste they receive. It can have serious environmental consequences. Hazardous waste can thus be placed in landfills because the contents are unknown. State pollution control detected in its control illegal receipt of hazardous waste at 10 p.m. of the landfills. One of the reasons is that the legislation on how to check waste at the time of delivery is unclear. This results in a different practice of granting authorisations to the different counties. I expect the government to clarify the law, so that hazardous waste is not illegally delivered because of such confusion. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we now also have more stringent requirements to specify the content of the waste delivered by incorporating the EU Council Directive into Norwegian regulations. As many people have experienced today, waste is also a resource. Norway has a large commercial potential to exploit our waste. There are large energy reserves if waste and bioenergy are put into service. We can save a lot of electricity by switching to bioenergy and district heating. That's an opportunity we shouldn't let go of us. Energy recovery facilities based on waste are good alternatives for the use of fossil fuels and distort waste from landfill and for incineration. It will give us power that we need, and it will give us a greater environmental gain. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the Council of State to help improve the conditions for more recycling facilities to be built, and that we have an infrastructure that enables us to use the energy from the facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e943	The question that is raised here by the interpellant is very interesting. Policies in this area are very important for the development of the environment, energy and industry in the future. Government responses show that the Government sees the challenges and has great ambitions and plans for action and action that will further help us to improve this important environmental policy area. It's clear that it's necessary to focus on a lot of things. There are many areas where effort is needed. We produce too much waste. It's one side of our welfare community. The centre batch has as its starting point that the polluter must pay for it. Products of which we are today major consumers, and which have a short life span, become special waste that requires resource management. The costs of proper treatment of this waste must be included in the price that we pay for the products. Recycling and recovery of waste is exciting. There are ever new ideas about turning waste into valuable products. Re-use is in increasing numbers and new products where waste is raw material are being developed. Many actors have their plans clear in terms of production, and they start as soon as they receive the necessary handshake from the authorities, whether in terms of approval or necessary capital. This is great. It increases value creation and creates jobs, as well as improving the environment. Waste incineration is a good thing for us in the Center Party. It turns the waste into a resource. Today large amounts of waste are shipped to Sweden. It provides a polluting transport and causes us to lose an energy resource. We have to take care of this waste in Norway, so that transport becomes minimal, and that we get to use the energy. Large combustion plants have been built. In built-in areas, this is a valuable contribution in terms of energy and a positive environmental effort. Increased deployment of district heating plants helps to facilitate the conditions for an increased bioenergy deployment in this area, by expanding the infrastructure and making it available to other bioenergy producers. Common for the large plants is that they have one waste incineration plant in addition to several other plants, where one uses other types of raw material. Trondheim Energieverk is a good example of a company that is well-running in this field. Today there is a district heating network of 110 kilometres, and district heating is delivered to 5000 housing units and 400 business customers. It represents 25 pst. of the heating needs of Trondheim. Following the expansion now taking place, 170 000 tonnes of residual waste will be incinerated in 2007, which will become heat for the public and for the private. It's a big bet. In the 2007 state budget, the centre will focus on waste management where the waste becomes a resource. Notes are contained within the year’s budgetary position, where an overall committee aims to build and complete ‘a number of modern energy recovery facilities’ by 2009. We're going to follow this up, and I have good faith that the entire government is involved in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e962	The theme that the interpellant addresses is very important. As stated by the Council of State in its response, significant results have been achieved in this area, but much remains to be done. That is why this debate can help bring us closer to the objectives on which there is a broad consensus in this area. Natural resources are not exhaustive. They must therefore be used as efficiently as possible. Waste policy should be designed in a way that leads to increased reuse, recycling and waste minimisation. Waste should, for example: to a greater extent could be used as an input into environmentally friendly activities. The polluter-pays principle is generally accepted in Norway. As a result, producer responsibility has been used as an instrument for several years. In the view of the Left, consideration should be given to further developing this into a mechanism that provides even greater incentives to produce in a way that facilitates recycling and re-use. Such further development of producer responsibility will stimulate holistic thinking and link the production and disposal of products. Today, this approach applies, for example: when handling a milk carton but not for larger products such as: buildings, which represent a much greater environmental impact. Increased use of producer responsibility can help reduce waste volumes and make more efficient use of resources. It is important to keep pressure up in order to achieve the objectives we have in terms of landfilling waste. Firstly, degradable waste must cease to be landfilled. The proposal to impose a landfill ban for waste by 2009 must therefore not be waived – it must be strictly enforced. Wet organic waste is a raw material for the production of biogas and soil improver. Biogas from wet organic waste treatment is a renewable energy source. It is therefore important that authorities facilitate the sorting out of wet organic waste. This will also release national combustion capacity and make us better rusty with regard to the 2009 landfill ban. The SFT estimates that after the entry into force of the ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste, Norwegian incineration capacity needs to be doubled in order to be able to treat Norwegian waste domestically. The incineration of waste with energy use is often a prerequisite for the development of district heating, which helps to increase the flexibility of our energy supply. Energy use of residual waste is therefore an important strategy as part of the energy conversion in Norway. Today, as several previous speakers have pointed out, large amounts of waste are exported to Sweden. Part of the explanation for this is low Swedish reception fees. It is neither good waste policy, good energy policy nor good business policy to pay foreign industry to exploit our waste resources. A simple instrument to give industry competitive conditions would be to introduce green certificates on waste energy, calculated according to the renewable share of the waste used. The Left wants to contribute to an environmentally sound and long-term waste policy, by establishing good incentives and recycling systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e979	First, I would like to thank the interpellant, who is raising a very important debate. Thanks also to all the participants in the debate and to the Council of State, who have made good representations. This is an important matter. I think it's time for some serious action to be taken in raising this question, not only in this room, but also in the municipalities. We had a garbage dump in 2002 of 8.8 million. tons of waste. From 1950 until today, the amount of garbage from the private household has increased fifteen times. There's an increase from 25 kg to 380 kg waste per year, which each of us throws. So it's the private consumption that increases the most. We buy baking machines, we buy coffee makers, and we buy lawn mowers. And because we do so little physical work, both at work and at home, we buy tricycles and weightlifting equipment to keep the body going. We buy a bunch of things, and we replace them after a short time because there are new models – because we have purchasing power. We have very good purchasing power, and we're all in the party together. The challenge for politicians is: How do business and private household behaviour change in an even more environmentally sound direction? We have the knowledge. We know so much. And as all the participants in the debate so far have shown, we have an incredible insight into this problem. So where are we going? I'll allow myself to mention a few good examples from the South Throne Team County, where I live. Two companies that have taken the environmental challenges seriously. A company in the municipality of Bjugn, in Lysøysund, takes waste from the fishing industry and converts the salmon oil into fuel for diesel cars. Rightly, it does not cover more than half a percent of the need in Norway, but it is because we drive an incredible amount of cars and trailers in Norway. I also think it is possible to take waste from the slaughtering industry, i.e. the meat industry, and convert it into fuel. Bioenergy from the forest we've been talking about. It should be further worked on. We have neighbours in the east who have gone ahead with a very good example. Another company in the South Trøndelag that works well with the environment is Håg. They make chairs and use them, for example. cartilage stoppers for the collarbone. They have the environment at the top of the order list when designing new products, and they limit the number of components so that it is easy to take an old chair apart and reuse the material. So there's a lot of good examples, and we know what we're doing. But what makes us do the right thing when we're at the store and we're going to make our choices? I will allow myself to come with a small personal matter. There was a lady here who mentioned a poem from the spring – it was probably the interpellant. I'm so grown up that I grew up in the spring, with an orange box of three with two rooms, filled with Zalo bottles and different things from the sea. I played there and didn't have any computer games nearby. I was playing with these things while Mom and Dad were doing cooking with a throwaway. It could be some sort of romanticization, but I think we might want parents who take their children out into nature and see alternative entertainment and play venues for those they have today. It's a little bit of this, it's about getting the right opinions from people. There we have, for example. Good help in an organization like Green Everyday, which I think can do a fabulous job for us in the future. Governments have said very well. I hope we get to the goal of all that's in the Soria Moria statement, because that's where we have opportunities. We have to agree that we're raising it high.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1000	I welcome this debate and also the consensus shown by the debate. The debate is a little – to put it in one sentence – about what we are doing today for tomorrow's society, what perspective we see it in, and what concrete changes we are making. The representative, Torny Pedersen, was concerned about this with hazardous waste, and there I think in some areas we have a challenge. I want to draw attention to special waste from the hospitals. It is a matter that is now at SFT, but that it is high time we found a solution. It is waste of such a nature that it needs a very special treatment, and we as a nation should have a system of that. The representative Solvik-Olsen challenged me and asked why we didn't do anything about it even in the government. If he reads the news of the state of the kingdom's environment, the representative will see that much has been done. But I believe, in this area as in some other areas, that both carrot and whip must be used. I think we should have good arrangements to make sure that we want to change, but sometimes we also have to have a little rice behind the mirror if we don't rearrange the arrangements. That's why I've just challenged the Council of State in relation to the deposit order. I see her objections, but I still want to see if it's possible to go a little faster, in terms of the challenges we're facing here. The representative Sørensen was historical and began with Thorbjørn Berntsen. Yeah, I remember his commitment. That commitment is well in time that we all take inwards and also act concretely on the basis of, and that we get some changes with the same commitment that he had, and with the background of the policy he stood for. I think it's important for us to get a tomorrow's society that's better than what we have today. In this interpellation, I have had three things in focus: consumption, waste and energy. I believe that if we handle these areas in a good way, we will have a positive welfare development that is consistent with the environmental limit of tolerance. But this needs to be handled in a concrete way and also in an obligatory way, both in relation to our consumption habits, in relation to our waste management and in relation to the energy resources we have. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State has said that she is taking my concrete proposals to the Government. Then she will probably come back with a response at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1018	I am pleased that the representative Holten Hemdal, through the interpellation, has invited us to a dialogue on waste policy. The debate has confirmed that there is a broad consensus on the steps taken by the Government and that there is strong cross-political support for them. I would like to stress once again that I want to include myself in the further work not only the proposals that have been made, but also the recommendation to the Government, in order to get as good a waste policy as possible in the future. I'm not going to repeat different parts of the waste policy grips that we've taken, and that I've mentioned before, but I want to briefly underline three things at the end. One is that I want to stress the need for awareness-raising work, on which the representative Holten Hämdal was involved. I think we're in touch here with a field that requires both whip and carrot, but that also requires the value of the individual resident in our own country. There's the mind-building work at the heart of it. The second thing I want to stress is that the growth in the amount of waste may be the biggest challenge we have, and that the government's approach now, with a new company where a new company is about to work on prevention and recycling, can give us opportunities to meet this challenge in a new and even more performance-oriented way. The last thing I want to mention is questions related to the export of waste to Sweden. I'm concerned that we're going to have systems that enable us to take care of most of our waste ourselves. I am also concerned about what several of the representatives have been talking about, that we should use the waste so that we also have the opportunity to get more energy from waste in Norway. It has traditionally been such that the framework conditions for waste-based energy use have been better in Sweden, but it is therefore about to change. There is a proposal in Sweden to introduce a tax on the incineration of waste from 1 July this year, and it will also help to balance the framework conditions and differences between Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1033	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1048	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2086]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1065	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2087]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1082	The size is now completing the treatment of the Public Health Act, which, in its new form, will facilitate transparency in a number of new areas. There is also a strong emphasis on stimulating more publicity, with a view to increasing transparency in the work of the administration. This is what we have when we are discussing and what has recently been a debate on the issue of transparency related to the accounts of the big business groups. We in the Left believe it is very important that the larger groups and the Stortinge, which are not covered by the Public Service Act, show the will for more openness and transparency that we expect the administration to show in more and more areas. We also believe it is important to be transparent about the means that go to the large-scale groups, in order to legitimise these support schemes. There should be full transparency of policy frameworks, and one should not wonder what it is that is not known. The left, as the only group of adults, has chosen to practise full transparency in relation to the accounts of the large group. There have been no problems both in terms of workload and privacy-related objections, which have been heard by some in the public debate, and which are, incidentally, classical objections to the principle of disclosure in other areas where it is applied. We have made a proposal asking the Presidency to make a proposal that ensures full transparency in the accounts of the large-scale groups. Of course, privacy considerations will be respected here, as is the case where the disclosure law applies and ensures transparency. When the Left chose to open its accounts, the other parties answered no, there was no need for change, greater transparency, than what was practice. A little bit of emphasis in the common answer the parties had, that this wanted you to rule by yourself. This was combined for SV's parliamentary leader, Inge Ryan, with emphasis on practical objections, as well as saying to VG that his experience with just VG was part of the background of his scepticism. This situational argument gives a very poor signal effect to others who are now meeting a public law which encourages transparency and the practice of more publicity. What we have been illustrated in the debate on transparency around the accounts is that transparency works. What a week ago was a clear rejection of the need for change, the need for increased transparency, has now resulted in more people adjusting their position. Now what was a proposal you didn't want to go into is an unnecessary proposal, because one is already working on a similar goal, namely to get more transparency. This reverse operation can be easily viewed by SVs. It started with a no to the need for changes. Then there was a phase in the middle where one said a desired openness and was completely in line with the Left. And then one has finally been made clear that it was just SV who took the initiative for this common letter that confirmed to VG and others that one did not want to contribute to changes in this area; the practice that was satisfactory. Today, SV has the opportunity to clarify the position of the party, and if it is the case that one agrees with the Left, it is natural to vote with the Left. I am pleased to note that today, Grand President Jagland says to the VG that he has a great deal of understanding of the demands for increased transparency – that is, an understanding that was not expressed in the general letter that the parties had a few days ago. He goes on to say that he sees the same system as the central administration, namely that the public is given access to what is requested. That is precisely what the Left proposal is, and I expect that the recent debate will lead to broad support for the proposal we have promoted for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1099	I welcome a debate on the role of the big business groups and what big business groups really are. It might be time for us to clarify some questions, including legal ones. As I see it so far, the population groups are private groups more than part of the central administration in the country. The debate that has taken place in the press has, among other things, as a result of the Presidency's decision to draw up a regulatory framework for the use of the funds allocated by the Stortinget to the aggregates. At the moment that the Stortinget has allocated money to the aggregates, it is no longer the taxpayers' money, but the money of the aggregates. The size groups are also legal entities, as they have responsibilities for employers. The size groups are employers with their individual human resources policies. I think it would be relatively unusual if the head of the group in Statoil got involved in the personnel policy in Norsk Hydro. Similarly, it is and should be the individual size group that determines its personnel policy, defines its salaries and pay systems, establishes its legal employment agreements with its employees. For me, the fact that the Left, or, for that matter, the party group of the President-in-Office of the Council, was to interfere in the internal affairs of the Group of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in terms of terms and conditions of pay and personnel policy, is as foreign to me as foreign as Norsk Hydro would interfere in the personnel policy of Statoil. If you want to make changes to the existing systems, for example: – as Gunnar Kvassheim indicates – making the aggregates a part of the central administration, there are quite a number of other laws and regulations that can then also be considered valid. I accept that. In no circumstances do I accept giving retroactive effect to any changes in the systems. So I'm completely open to discussing changes in the systems for the future, but then it has to be for the future, and not retrospectively. I assume that the Left, like the party that had significant constitutional thinking in the past, agrees that nothing can be done retrospectively. But a discussion about looking at this I have nothing against. I think it would be interesting to get the legal clarification of what a wholesaler really is – whether it should be the same as other people who may be granted, with an allocation letter stating which assumptions and which rules should apply, among other things. for the use made of the appropriations. Today, as you know, there is no legislation, except that some press people are walking around thinking that there is a code, what it is not. If you want to make a code, I'm open to participating in it, but it can't be applied retrospectively. I am pleased that the Presidency has decided that we should draw up a regulatory framework for the use of funds allocated to the large-scale groups, so that we can avoid discomfort by the fact that there are some who are vomiting themselves to think what other groups should do in terms of human resources policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1114	It is important for a democracy that there is openness around it. It's actually fundamental to our democracy that people have insight into the issues they're going to decide on. I do not fully understand the argument of the representative Hagen, who on the one hand does not understand that there should be some rules – there are private groups that one should not interfere with – and on the other hand he says he is pleased that there should be rules for the size groups. For me, there's no contradiction between the size groups controlling themselves and not being a part of the administration, and the fixed rules on how to use these money. It's quite natural that at the time of allotment, there's also a letter to the other people who get the money from the public, about where these money is going to be spent. I am pleased with the debate that has come, and that there will be a clarification of this, so that those who are going to spend the money will not be afraid to make mistakes, and those who are going to look at it from outside can be sure that these money will be used for what they intended to do – to increase our democracy. So I also see that this case has created, and is part of creating, political contempt. If there's something we don't need in Norwegian society now, there's more political contempt. I think the only way to work against it is to get full openness about both what we spend the money for, and how to do it. Openness has never been harmful in the fight for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1123	First of all, an edge remark. I am very pleased that the Left and the Advance Party will agree on a great deal of openness in connection with the Public Service Act in voting later today. So to the matter today. First of all, I am very pleased that the representative Hagen is now opening up so that we can be open. Then there was something about what he said, which made me take the word for a reflection. My reflection by being a staggering representative is that it's not the same as meeting at the general meeting in Hydro. My reflection as a growth representative is that I am elected to trust for Norwegian citizens. I'm the citizen's representative, and it's going to be something other than that I'm a shareholder, a client or a client. It's a principle attitude I have toward our entire rule of people, and to being the servant of the people, so to speak, of the utmost persuasion. I'm very happy to have a debate on how to be open about it, because I think that's absolutely necessary. I just want to note that when the representative of Sponheim in his time when the parties were concerned, the fact that gifts to the parties were to become known nationally, and I myself, as the representative of the Left in Oslo, could contribute to the fact that gifts to the party should also be known locally, it was a step for transparency. I welcome the fact that we are having a debate on the extension of the proposal presented by the representative Kvassheim, which means that we are moving these important steps further around the work of the Storting. There are parliaments and elected assemblies of other countries where this crystal-clear openness is just in place. That's the landscape we all need to live with when we first have to manage confidence in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1132	First, I would like to thank Mr Hagen for taking part in the debate. I had hoped that representatives from all parties would have done so in order to clarify their views. Hagen says that I think I have the impression that a large-scale group should be treated in the same way as the central administration. I don't mean that. The Public Procurement Act concerns the Central Administration. It does not apply to the Storting and does not apply to the aggregates. But we can still create rules that facilitate transparency around the work of big business groups. Desiring transparency doesn't mean that someone wants to rule, and that doesn't mean that one from one party is going to lead or have opinions about how one manages the resources in another. When I mentioned the central administration, it was because today, big-time president Jagland says to VG that he wants the kind of openness in Stortinget that it is in relation to the central administration. I note that Vice President Hagen is not prepared to conclude as clearly as President-in-Office Jagland does, but is open to an assessment of what should be the right policy in this area. I am pleased that the Presidency will look at the rules for the use of the money. What we want a decision is that the Presidency should facilitate full transparency in the use of the money. I have, in recent days and through the debate today, been strengthened in my belief that this is an important proposal. When I have been in the debate with representatives from the SV, they have said that this proposal from the Left is unnecessary, because what the Presidency is about to add is exactly what we want. That's SV's reason for going against our proposal, while Carl I. Hagen says that the alternative to our proposal, that is what the Presidency is going to do, is an assessment where the conclusion is much more open. So that's why I expect those who believe the same thing as the Left, who think it's important that this leadership be based on the work of the Presidency, to end up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1143	This is in many ways a repetition of the debate that took place in Odelstinget last week in connection with the promotion of the proposal by the Left. On the SV side, we have stressed that we want more publicity. We have been concerned that we should have a new public law, and that in some areas it can go further by developing the law along the way. We have also underlined the importance that the Storting has clear driving rules attached to the accounts and the annexes to the accounts. I would repeat that before the Left promoted this proposal, it was clear that the Presidency would have to review the accounts and the premises for the use of the funds allocated by the Stortinge to the various size groups. It had already been prepared by the Presidency in February of this year. Then it is true that when the Left promoted its proposal, SV had made it clear that in addition, a review of the Presidency was sought in the context of the review already announced on the rules for the accounts and the annexes to the accounts, with a view to seeking a common practice in the various size groups. In addition, because SV positively supports what I believe is the intention of the Left, namely more publicity and public demand for the economy of the parties, we asked whether the wording of the Left's proposal in terms of full transparency was literally understandable. We said that this will be privacy considerations that suggest that there will be attachments it will not be natural to publish. I used as a concrete example in a question to Lars-Henrik Michelsen from the Left that it, for example. may be representatives who have to stop their journey because they become ill, perhaps mentally ill and have to go to the psychiatrists, and then it is in an annex. Is the Left fully transparent in the view that those annexes should also be published? The representative Lars-Henrik Michelsen in his reply to the reply was: ‘Media also has a moral responsibility, and I believe that once they are transparent, they will also assess whether there are strong human interests, privacy considerations, to care for when looking up how the party groups spend their money.’ It is clear that SV, who on the one hand is engaged in full disclosure where disclosure is natural, but who is also concerned with privacy when the information is such that it is really a matter of journalism, cannot support the proposal of the Left when the Left itself stresses that nothing should be excluded from the public, nor information which should not, for privacy reasons, be published. We have given this as a reason for not being able to support this proposal if it is not turned into a transmission proposal. But the intention of the Left, namely to ensure greater publicity, we have always agreed with the Left. What I find to be a pity is that the Left seeks to extend this debate by so questioning the intentions of other parties, even when they agree in principle with the Left, but are committed to balancing the two considerations – the consideration of full publicity, where it is natural, and the consideration of privacy, when it falls naturally. I think the Left shall now leave the rest of that debate, for this matter is no longer served by this. There will be a real round in the Presidency. You get the matter back in the big groups. And what is the intention of the Left is well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1161	It is a particular feature of political debate that the more difficult it is to find good interfaces between different considerations that need to be balanced, and the less the real distance is between the points of view, the more dramatic it may sound when we discuss it. I wonder if this is such a case. I think it is useful to have rules for the use of the appropriations for the groups, so that we avoid such doubts as to what is within and what is outside the scope of using the funds for parliamentary work. It creates cleanness. Then there's a discussion about whether the accounts should be open. Yes, the accounts are open today, so we're discussing the level at which the accounts should be open. The representative Dørum said he was elected to trust the Norwegian people. In that function, we as representatives probably have to figure out that we can look more closely at the cards than most people have to be exposed to as employees. That's right. Now Ballo mentioned some examples where we might be able to discuss whether it's reasonable that we should leave to the press's discretion whether it's going to be public or not. But we also have a significant number of employees in the wholesale groups, and they are not elected to trust the Norwegian people. They must have the same privacy as other employees. There is no doubt that if we are to have transparency down to the annex level, there can be a lot of information about the employees. This could be done, for example, by: are application features, there may be disease cases, and there may be other things. I don't think it's reasonable that working here in Stortinget, although it's a special house, should lead to exposure to this because we're afraid to be suspected of hiding something, or not opening up, don't dare find an intersection that balances the different considerations. This is also an consideration that needs to be taken into account. I do not know whether the Left in their proposal, where they use the term ‘full transparency of the accounts of the Group in accordance with the principle of disclosure’, has been respected, inter alia. that consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1170	On the part of the Workers' Party, we will take an initiative in the Presidency to draw up a more detailed set of rules for the accounts to be provided by the party groups to the Presidency. This means that there will be more transparency for the media in the future. In one of the samples that I conducted for a few years ago, we spent a lot of time discussing the concept of ‘burden-related work’, i.e. in connection with the financial support given to the groups. It is quite clear that the grants will only be used for ‘burden-related work’. In retrospect, when the new system has now worked for some years, we see that this can be interpreted differently, and that it is applied differently from the party group to the party group. That is why, in our opinion, there is now a need to take an initiative to get more detailed legislation and a different level of detail. So just a comment on the demand for full transparency: there I share the view that several of the other representatives here have said that they have, that full transparency cannot be such as to understand that it is appropriate to distribute attachments to the media. We are responsible for large party groups with many employees, and the employees, and everyone, are entitled to the same privacy, whether you work in the Stortinget or you work in any other company, and for that matter in a media company. These are the initiatives the Labour Party is going to take. That is why we believe that the proposal currently under consideration in case No. 6, which is promoted by the Left, is basically an unnecessary proposal. There's no doubt that this is going to be taken up in the presidency. Therefore, the recommendation to the Left should be: instead of having the proposal voted down, pass it on! That is at least a recommendation from us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1181	It is important that there is a clear and unified understanding of the relationship between the Storting and the party groups. The funds made available to the batch groups are allocated by the Stortinget, as is all other appropriations in that country. When some media, such as VG, in a look-up today, is concerned that the size of the allocations to the batch groups has evolved towards significant increase, it is important to include in the image what is the reason for this. One of the main reasons is that some years ago we transferred the employer’s responsibility for a significant number of employees employed by the Stortinget and the Stortinget to the party groups, so that today there are the party groups responsible for them. That of course means that the amount recorded in the accounts of the batches is correspondingly higher, is self-evident and should not give rise to sensationalization. At the same time, it is important that not least we elected ourselves keep track of the relationship between the Storting and the party groups. When it can be said, as was said on an open screen in a debate programme for some time ago, that it is the party groups that are employers for the elected people, it suggests a very serious confusion of concept. The party groups are employers for employees advisers and office staff, but of course the elected representatives are not in any employee relationship with the party groups. It was just supposed to be missing! It would be vertical on a collision course with the provisions of the Basic Law. With regard to the question of the degree of transparency of accounts and of the transparency of accounts, I agree with those who reserve the interpretation of the Left's proposal that full transparency would mean that the accountancy of the open internet or other sizes should be said, and that there should automatically be transparency for God and everyone in the annexes to the accounts. It would be a senseless form of publicity, and fortunately no one practices publicity that way. What is a reasonable understanding, of course, is that we should establish a code that is common to all the party groups and that there is agreement between the parliamentary leaders and the Presidency about is an appropriate law, and that we should then establish a common system of auditors. This is in many ways the main guarantee that the funds are managed properly and properly. Today, the system is such that each party group itself hires an auditor, there will of course not be any uniform form of audit in that way. I have no preconception of how far the Presidency is going to go in the direction of detailing the legislation, because it is a matter of appropriateness. But what is important is that you have a code that everyone agrees on, and that you have a common auditor who ensures that the law is followed exactly the same way by all the party groups. Then I believe that the Stortinget can say with a good conscience that we practice a healthy form of publicity, which both the central government and, for that matter, private companies also practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1196	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo presented the SV's vision in a good and thorough way, so I'm not going to repeat it. But since the representative Kvassheim spent some time on the undersigned, I think it is natural that I take the floor. It has happened that this case started, at least from my side, that we have discussed for a long time how to get an account that is easier for both the public and others to access. There is no new case at SV. But then there was a question about whether we could deliver the attachments raw to a newspaper. On that question I answered no. We could not deliver the attachments raw to a newspaper, precisely with the reason that Olav Gunnar Ballo and others have rightly pointed out, that this contains as much information as it would simply be wrong to deliver, for privacy and other things. Let me just make it clear that that doesn't mean that SV doesn't want transparency. We want both transparency around the accounts and a much more consistent and perhaps more detailed way of presenting the accounts to the different size groups. That is why we have sent a letter to the Presidency that we want the Presidency to review this. Now, it might seem a little unnecessary, because the presidency was already doing it. But at least we're glad that this review is coming, and that we're actually getting accounts that are a little bit easier to read, and that are becoming more consistent for all the groups in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1204	Gunnar Kvassheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1207	There is today full transparency under the Public Health Act, for example: in the municipal sector. Personal data are protected in such a way that it is reflected when the documents are requested for transparency. It's the same system we're seeing for the big groups. Those who want to understand it this way have had ample opportunity to understand it this way. The designation of privacy considerations such as: The representative of Ballo has, is a straw straw that you can remove through the clarification that I am now contributing to. So there's a transparency that's being maintained, while at the same time focusing on privacy and gaining equal transparency in these big groups with what they have in a number of areas. This, I think, is absolutely necessary to clarify, because what we're getting ready now is that there's a willingness to look at the use of money, but the uncertainty about whether there's more transparency about the use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1212	I have to say that I'm responding to the left's vocabulary, because it's going to question whether parties that in many ways agree with Left's intentions have these intentions themselves or not. SV has for many years, I think quite since the party was founded, been concerned with transparency, and you should have transparency. And then we discuss the question of premisses. What we did, and what the Workers' Party did to Thomas Breen, was to be completely specific in the questioning of the Left as to how this was to be understood. Then we get the answer back that explains that then we disagree. If the Left, through its proposal, the same thing as Inge Wohnung, believes that everything should be put out for full transparency, whether on the Internet or not, without specifically asking questions as to whether you can see it or the attachment with regard to that journey, it is a kind of openness that we believe is going too far. The reason why we believe it goes too far is that privacy considerations should be taken into account. Staff shall be taken into account. Representatives shall also be taken into account if, for example, the representatives, whom I have mentioned repeatedly before to the Left, get sick, a journey must be interrupted and they are anxious about how it is angled by the media. What has been left's answer to that is that they have confidence that the media itself will draw these limits. It's a trust – and I'll be fairly clear on that – that SV doesn't have. So it can't be that employees' considerations are subject to the media's absolute and 100 pst requirements. full transparency. I think that if the left has not got recessions now, they themselves will get them in a time from their own employees if such a degree of openness were to be practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1219	Many years ago, when I was active in youth politics, I learned something that I tried to learn later, and it was taking a stand and attaching it to my opponent with such a sense of madness that everyone had to realize that it was insane. It should be clear, after the presentation by the representative Kvassheim from the pulpit, what are the motives and intentions of the Left. When a representative is challenged and answered, the representative answers what the representative stands for. That's what's at stake. I expect that there are not general youth politicians in this Chamber, but that we are elected people with life experience, and at least lifelong wisdom, whether of shorter duration or longer duration, and that we take it into consideration in the debate. We don't have to attribute people to opinions other than what they actually express.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1226	It may well be natural to round off this debate, which has been relatively long-term in relation to the size of the matter, compared to other matters we are dealing with in this Chamber, to note that to the extent that everyone is concerned about finding a law that is practical and that can apply in the same way to all party groups, which ensure legitimate transparency to the public, and which also have a form of revision that is as water-tight as revision can remain in this world, the Left should also be very satisfied with it, and invest the rest of its energy in the discussions between the Presidency and the parliamentary leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2087]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1248	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2087]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1265	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2087]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1282	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2087]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1295	Then the Storting is ready to vote. In Case No: 1, 2 and 3 have no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1305	A vote will be taken on proposals by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 4 May 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a broad evaluation of public law no later than five years after the law has been enacted. Themes that need to be evaluated include, inter alia, the scope of the law, the purpose paragraph, the exceptions provided for by the law, the practice of complaints, the practice of the principle of transparency and the practice of the law with a view to any necessary corrections in order to fulfil the intentions of the legislator.» The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1326	A vote will be taken on proposals by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 4 May 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for transparency in relation to what private and public organisations and foundations receive from public funds and how such transparency should be done. Such transparency shall apply only to the receipt of public funds and to the public body from which such funds are received.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1347	A vote will be taken on proposals by the Gdańsk representative Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 May 2006: ‘The decision requests the Presidency to submit proposals that ensure full transparency in the accounts of the large-scale groups in accordance with the principle of publicity, which are now being enforced in several areas by way of revision of the disclosure law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1366	Proposal by Mr Lars-Henrik Michelsen, on behalf of the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 May 2006, during the debate in the Odelstinget, was turned into a transmission proposal and sounds in a modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine further the question of the application of the disclosure law in relation to the different situations in which, on behalf of, or after authorisation, the public performs important social tasks with a legal or actual monopoly on the individual.’ The President proposes that the proposal be sent to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers that to be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1379	There is a vote on proposals submitted from the Odelsting meeting on 4 May 2006: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out an evaluation of public law during the next major period with a main focus on whether the intentions for greater transparency have been fulfilled.’ The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1398	There is a vote on proposals submitted from the Odelsting meeting on 4 May 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider whether the archive regulation should be amended in order to give the administration an obligation to record so-called internal documents.’ Right has notice that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-09.ana.ud2076e1469	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word according to § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - The meeting is over.
