ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e30	At the end of the financial debate, many from the opposition parties thought that representatives from the government parties had used a lot of words about what the government had done. As part of the debate, I will agree that it probably took a bit off at the end. I'm actually proud to belong to the Center Party, of being part of the red-green majority government's starting from. I believe that the Government has started a new course, with Community solutions at the centre of the policy being developed. We're back at the 2004 tax rate, which was promised. We build our welfare society with the community's resources, and we're working to reduce inequalities in health. This does not mean that we have achieved the objectives of the government statement, but we have started the work. We have to wait until the ageing period is over before we can really determine whether we have achieved the targets or not. In the field of specialist healthcare, there are major challenges. It is demanding for health enterprises to adapt to the budgets adopted by the Stortinget. As we know, the health business deficit is going to be $1 billion, maybe something more. However, between hospitals with comparable functions, there are also large differences in cost levels. It shows that management and financial management must be priority areas of these complex organisations as hospitals. The centre party is pleased that the division of health businesses has been fixed up a year faster than the size of the population had decided. Health West and Health Mid-Norway are thus strengthened by their basic appropriations more than the other health businesses, by 256 million. kr in relation to the 2006 budget. I am also pleased that a new review will be carried out to see whether there are further conditions in the distribution between health establishments that should be corrected. The rehabilitation grant shall also be included in the assessment. I see that someone wants a very quick review of this, but then you know it's complicated. I think it's more important that we get a solid and good review, sail if it has to take some time. The health business budget will also be strengthened in 2007. Estimated growth in 2006 continues, and it is interesting to note that in 2007 hospitals will treat perhaps more than 30,000 patients than the Bondevik government provided for their budget in 2006. We're strengthening the hospital economy. We're funding 700 million. The Roadmap for Mental Health, and we are embarking on a stepping-up in the field of drugs, strengthening prevention through partnership for public health, where county municipalities are key drivers towards municipalities. I think someone gets something in the government, and I think we should keep going. The health challenges in Norway, and then I'm talking about public health, are marked by diseases where unhealthy lifestyles and unhealthy diets weaken public health. Lack of physical activity, use of tobacco and increasing alcohol consumption among young people lead to high expenditures on the health budget. Therefore, it is positive that the Government takes these challenges seriously and strengthens these areas in the budget and also draws up an action plan for better diet. The Central Party is also very pleased that the Government is working on a national strategy against social inequality in relation to health. Predictability is important for health enterprises, but also for hospitals and health institutions owned and operated by non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health enterprises. Therefore, the Centre Party and the other two Government Parties stress that these health institutions should be treated in the same way as the public-run enterprises in respect of the pension billion. It is important to ensure that these institutions are economically non-discriminatory and predictable. So to the investment regime of health businesses. It was the Bondevik II government that started implementing the health reform. It took several years, and no action was taken to get the investment regime at an acceptable level. It was not included in the budgets. That is why I think it is good that the Government announces that it will step up the grant in the basic appropriations for investments by NOK 1 billion from 2008 to 2010, so that one comes up to about 80 pst. Some people would think that it is too small, but what I think is important – and one can discuss percentages – is that health companies now know how much they can invest in, thus creating predictability for them. The national health plan shows the status of the overall healthcare system and proposes policy interventions aimed at providing better healthcare in the future. Although we have one of the world’s best public health services, the national health plan shows that there are deficiencies in a number of areas and that action needs to be taken. I believe that the biggest challenge lies in the lack of interaction and holisticity around the patient's needs. This requires awareness of all those in the healthcare system who respond to the patient that the patient’s needs are to guide the interaction. Furthermore, the Centre Party considers that subsidiarity and security are essential in the specialist health service. It implies that everyone, irrespective of their place of residence, must be sure that they are provided with the necessary health care. Therefore, the Central Party of the Government supports the national health plan’s expressed policy objectives to ensure that no local hospitals are closed down, but that, on the contrary, they are built up and further developed in order to meet the needs of the population with good professional content. Then I want to comment on Nesvik's posts, because I feel that he was honest when he started his post by saying that we should not blackpaint, because we have a good health care, but there are still some challenges. That's a very good starting point for me to be able to work together on these challenges in the future. I also hear that the other parties say. The criticism of the budget presented by the Government is small in the sense that someone chooses any other tasks that a person wants to lift. We're going to be so honest in the government parties that we're saying that it's slowly the other tasks we'd also wanted to raise higher, but this time we've done the priorities that the budget shows. Then we're going to try to further develop the Norwegian health care system into a health care system that serves everyone in a good and safe way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e56	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e59	We experience in this budget that government parties want to earmark funds for prisoners in prisons, so that they will receive a health offer as well as the rest of the population. But you don't want to earmark funds for the elderly and the sick. We also see that municipalities have to cover more and more of the costs of resource-intensive users. The point of impact has been raised from NOK 725000 for 2005 to NOK 745000 for 2006 and to NOK 765000 for next year. In addition, the municipalities will pay 30 pst. of the costs in relation to previous 20 pst. In other words, the government gives with one hand and takes back with the other. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e68	The system for resource-intensive users is very good in the sense that when the municipality has people who have special expenditures, the government covers them. In the case of resource-intensive users, where the entry point is to be, and the scheme to be set up, the Centre Party and the other government parties will continue to work on, so that we can make a good arrangement with regard to the distribution of expenditure between the State and the municipality. In this respect, with regard to the earmarking of health care funds for prisoners in prison, I believe it is very important that they too should be guaranteed a health budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e75	In Political Quarter, December 5, 2006, Rune J. Krylaaen states that he will transfer the hospitals to the new regions. He mentions the possibility of five to nine regions. However, the workers’ party’s Jorod Asphjell disagrees with the Skjellaa in this and points out that the state is a better hospital owner. However, the representative of the Kijlaa believes that those who make decisions in the hospitals must be held accountable for the decisions in elections. Is it the view of the Commissioner that, in order not to talk about the Minister of Health and Health, there is a lack of political control over health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e82	I didn't say we should move hospitals to a regional level. If someone listened to the political quarter yesterday, that's not what I said. We're very clear that as long as we're in this government, this is the case. But the representative, Sjøli, also knows that the Central Party did not want the health reform. When I argued yesterday, it was about those to be put to the elections. When we argue about it, it was assumed that we have local corporate governance that makes important decisions that apply locally, that neither we at the Stortingen are committed to, nor the Council of State is committed to. It is important that these are held responsible for the decisions they make. That is why we wanted to have this under democratic rule. That was the whole argument against the health reform when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e89	I want to follow the same track as the representative Sjøli, because I also listened at the Political Quarter on Tuesday. I heard what Sonja Sjøli referred to, and besides, we heard and read this summer in a local way where I came from, that the party colleague Haga of the Khillaa said quite clearly that hospitals had to be brought back to this new level, in practice to the new counties, I would say. Or when we ask the government partners what they think about different things, they refer to the Soria Moria statement, but in this case it's very unclear. So I'd like to ask the representative of the Skjellaa: is this the point of view, performed in Political Quarter on Tuesday, something that the Government agrees on, or is this an example that the Government has at least two languages in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e96	I think the Left Party knows the Senter Party so well that they know our position on this matter. They know why we did not want this health reform that we currently have under control. This is the central party's primary position in this matter. We experience that we have taken some steps. The Minister of Health was quickly appointed elected elected to the government. It's a step on the way, but they're not responsible to those who make decisions, but to the people. I do not understand that there should be any problem that the centre party has a position on this matter, which we had, and which we have been stuck on all along. I can't believe it's supposed to surprise Ludvigsen. The government speaks clearly in this matter. It is the health reform that remains in force and will continue to apply as long as this government sits together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e103	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e106	In health policy, the left will give more priority to those who need it the most. This requires re-priorities and requires not least better interaction between the different parts of the healthcare system. The most important preventive health work is that each person takes a personal responsibility for his own life and own health. On the other hand, countries and municipalities have a clear responsibility for facilitating society to minimise the risk of health damage. However, increasing efforts in rehabilitation and prevention are important in order to allocate resources within the healthcare system and in order to ensure that chroniclers, drug addicts and people with disabilities get a better daily life. We believe that the government in its budget is giving too little priority to rehabilitation. Today, government funds for training institutions are divided by the population in health regions. The left has set this up in its alternative budget with an extra promise to Health West and Health Mid-Norway with a total of 80 million. kr. The left is quite clear when it comes to better management of health professionals. The left's ambition is that the ownership of hospitals should be moved back to the county, and we see today extensive plans for centralisation of health services. We believe that this is a threat, especially to patient provision in the districts, but also in relation to important skills jobs in the same districts. The county councils were castrated when responsibility for hospitals was transferred to the state. Now we have to start stitching up the rest. For the Left, it is an important principle that the most important – perhaps the most important – decisions relating to the community of a society should be taken by elected bodies. The left will have greater rights to patient rights in healthcare professionals. Sustained reports of high levels of absenteeism in the health sector suggest that many added persons are obliterated from high pressure in constant conversion processes and live with constant understaffing. It's a fact that there's huge costs for health professionals when the sick leave is so high, and as we know, it's much higher than in the workplace or else. I actually think here we're talking about billions of expenses associated with the high level of sick leave. This point suggests that the current organisation and management of healthcare professionals cannot be optimal – if one in the same length takes into account that the number of cleaning sessions – i.e. installations as emergency aid within 30 days of printing – is record high. We have received a report that shows that between 2001 and 2002 the number of renovations increased by 18.1 pst. In 2005, they represented over 81 000 patients – 81 000 corresponding to more than the inhabitants of Finnmark County. Whether the reason is for premature printing or for poor provision of rehabilitation, or whether there are other reasons, a certain person may wonder, but at least there is an extra cost when we have such a situation. At least I've been informed that we can talk about a cost of maybe 850 million. NOK – 1 billion. That means that we need to organise the specialist services better. We need to interact better, and we need to see the individual treatment options in context. Another important element — perhaps the most important element — for better management of health resources is that, in particular, hospitals need to have much more robust framework conditions. Everyone knows that if you don't know what conditions to operate after in a year, you will operate ineffectively. It is therefore particularly important that the content of local hospitals be clarified as soon as possible. I expect that the Storting will be able to discuss the proposals of the selection to be submitted in March next year. I would like the Council of State to confirm this today. The left also prioritises a greater focus on child and youth psychiatry. It is extremely unfortunate that children and young people wait a long time to receive the necessary treatment. In order to meet the challenges they are currently facing in the field of psychiatry, all stages of the response chain need to be strengthened across skills and levels of care. Several places must be created in acute psychiatry, while at the same time increasing the investment in competent psychiatry, day-care centres, home-based psychiatric follow-up, etc. Mental health/health services must be established as closely as possible where people live. The Left therefore prioritises a total of 100 million for health professionals in its alternative budget. In addition to the Government's proposal. The left continues to receive reports that health care services have too poor capacity in many places. The healthcare service is a good, preventive and socially inexpensive way to provide health advice and services to young people. Many young people today have problems with their own body image and with the need for advice and guidance during youth. The health care service captures many problem settings through the trust relationship that can be established in young people and that other parts of the healthcare system often miss. I am going to enter an area that I have not heard that other representatives have mentioned so far today. Left thinks it's untimely that dental treatment is separate from other medical treatments, and wants a public system similar to that of the fixed medical system. Research reports suggest that poor dental health is socially stigmatizing and causes severe pain. Recent research suggests that poor dental health can be a contributing cause of both cardiac and male populations. Therefore, the left wants a gradual transition to a public reimbursement scheme where deferred groups are prioritised in the first place. In our alternative budget, we've seen 170 million. kr to increase public funding of costs associated with dental treatment for those who need it the most, most. We have heard in the debate before today that someone has been talking about the Leon principle. The most ultimate thing when it comes to this principle is that people get access to health services where they live. We in the Left are concerned that preventive health work must have concrete objectives of reducing injuries and accidental falls at home in older people, in their own homes. This requires the prevention perspective to be an integral part of societal planning. Older people have different needs. The availability and performance of older people must therefore be adapted to the individual as much as possible. Older people who have difficulty coping with themselves must, to the extent that they are able to do so, have a choice between home-based care, community or institution-based elderly housing, or institution-based care. All those in need of help in their everyday lives must receive the necessary assistance when they need it. It applies both to care services and to places in a nursing home or in a nursing home. Left thinks that an offer of simple janitorial services can be a part of the preventive work that saw older people able to live a worthy life in their own home, as long as health allowed it. Strengthening the provision of assistance for simple daily tasks will be damaging and humiliating and a potential to prevent femoral fractures and other falls that affect many older people. The left has therefore been in favour of a probationary system with janitorial services in its alternative budget. Finally, on behalf of the Left, I would like to include our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e139	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e144	We registered that the representative Ludvigsen wanted to talk about dental health. We have recorded that the Left has been high in terms of a publicly funded dental health. In several newspapers we can read what the Left intends to do, and in liberal.no, which is the Left's Member, the representative says that they will put forward concrete proposals of 400 million in the budget. kr for the purpose of securing the vulnerable groups, those with income below 2 G. Now we see that the left has added 170 million. kr, and I ask the representative, where did the rest of the bet go? Was this the bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e151	It's true that we're talking about 400 million. kr at an earlier date/time. It's also true that in our alternative budget, as I said in my post, we've seen 170 million. kr. What's the point of that level is that we have to start a place. I mean, at least it's a good start with $170 million. kr. I hope that the second party can also sit on the line that we've signaled, so that we get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e156	To the same point in the setting - Left's dental speciality. It uses the expression 'on the same line with the fixed medical system'. I am not quite aware of what that means – whether it means that the Left has taken a position that the public should cover all the substantial expenditure on dental care in the same way as for medical services, i.e. with the exception of the small property paid, and in that case, whether the Left has any idea of what it means by increasing expenditure in total, and whether one has also taken a position on the priority of these billions – because it is quite clear that this is about billions – in relation to other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e161	I understand that Inge Wohnung has also calculated this. He shows that if you want to complete it completely with no real estate, it's about billions of dollars. What will be an important point is that you have to set an attribute. We haven't said anything about the size of the property, but at least we've assessed a property, maybe 800 kroner, maybe a little bit higher, and said that we also have to screen someone. But what's the main point, it makes sense, is that the teeth are part of the body, and the dental heels have to be evaluated in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e166	First I want to say that I think the representative Ludvigsen has a good attitude in terms of dental health. But my question is about the care of the elderly. I note that there is a great deal of commitment in this field – and the representative Ludvigsen has been the rapporteur. Under the previous government there was a systematic starvation of the municipal economy, which was reportedly at the expense of the care of the elderly. So then the question is, since the Left has put on about the same line as our government in the area of municipal economy: is the representative Ludvigsen really quite satisfied with the new government, who has given so much money to the municipalities that you can now reverse the trend of cutting in this field as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e175	I believe that if I had changed and been in the municipality, I would have said that here it is about making the most possible money on the table, whatever government we have. Now, you've never had as much money to distribute as you have now, so each government would have had a lot of money to distribute. What is important to say in this context is that we need to get a clear steering signal on which municipalities should give priority. It is such in this country that the elderly population is increasing enormously. I could have thought that one had prioritised the elderly to a greater extent than what was done by this government, of which SV is a part, who would well put down the price of kindergartens. I would have considered a slightly different angle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e182	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e185	We have set high targets for healthcare, and health care in Norway is among the best in the world, there is still much that can be better. That is why this is an area which is a high priority in the government's draft budget, and it comes, among other things. in writing. - (DE) In the health sector, the escalation plan for mental health, the launch of a stepping-up plan for the drug field, the strengthening of supply and quality in the care sector, measures to combat poverty and the strengthening of public health work, to mention something. In addition to this initiative, we have presented the National Health Plan 2007–2010, which also provides an important framework for implementing health and care policies in the years to come. When the Government proposes to grant SEK 2.2 billion more to health businesses next year, in addition to the usual compensation for price and salary growth, there is a significant investment in the hospital sector. This initiative means that we can continue patient treatment at the same high level as this year, even next year. However, when we follow the public debate on hospitals, we get the impression that there has never been such a bad thing. There are reports of both resource shortages, the closure of offers and a patient offer in crisis. To me, it's a paradox. The number of patient treatments covered by the ISF scheme has increased by 235000 between 2001 and 2006. That being said, however, there is no doubt that we are still facing major challenges. The operating deficit of regional health enterprises is estimated to be between 1 and 1.3 billion kroner per year. Regional health enterprises have experienced a significant deficit every year since the 2002 reform. This development cannot continue. Regional health enterprises are responsible for adapting their operations to the financial framework conditions imposed by the Storting every year. I am going to follow the development of health businesses closely next year to make sure that this is taken into account. We are now in the process of meeting with all regional health businesses – and everyone is to be implemented before Christmas – where financial management is an important item on the agenda. In order to balance the economy as determined by the Storting, the conversion of regional health establishments is necessary. And there's no doubt that there are huge differences in efficiency also between hospitals with similar functions. Good management working with the employees, I believe, is an important key. There is nothing to suggest that patients are getting a worse offer at the most effective hospitals, or that employees who have worse working conditions, I would say, rather the opposite. Telemark Hospital, which I recently visited, is a good example of this – they even go with profits. It is absolutely essential that companies base their patient perspective on their transitions. The citizens of the whole country shall be confident that they will receive good quality treatment within the time limits which are medically sound. There has been a long history of uncertainty as to the level of appropriations to be made available to health care establishments for the recovery of construction and equipment. This government proposes to escalate investment appropriations by a total of DKK 1 billion between 2008 and 2010. This is a clarification that helps to provide predictability for health businesses. I am of the opinion that the management and control of resource use is crucial to achieving the right priorities and good quality. The cancellation of debts, as some people call for, will be to introduce those who have run the worst, and to fail those who have loyally aligned themselves to the limits set by the Storting. I would particularly like to highlight Health East, which has made balance sheets every year. I believe that there is respect for that. Health East is an example of the fact that it is possible to provide good health services within the budget adopted. It doesn't mean that everything has been easy there either, neither is it now, but my point is that it works. And I'll say, that's absolutely necessary to be able to prioritize correctly. The government also proposes, as is well known, to correct the distribution of disparities between regional health establishments one year before the adoption of the size. We have announced that we will soon set up a new sample to review the distribution of income between regional health businesses. With regard to issues related to the Capital Region, which both representatives Nesvik, Wohnning and Bohemia have been involved in the debate, I share the view that there are special challenges related to cooperation, capacity, etc. between the two health regions. For example, it is a challenge that the Rikshospitalet lies in Health South, while the majority of patients come from Health East. I can confirm that I want to work with obligators to find better cooperation solutions between Health South and Health East, and that in that work I look at several current models. The government prioritises research and knowledge on female health. In September of this year, as we know it, we opened the National Centre of Expertise for Women's Health at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital HF, and we have proposed to set aside 10 million. kr also next year. This centre of competence shall carry out research, development of competences and dissemination of knowledge on female health and diseases particularly affecting women. In the draft budget for next year, we are also following up work on the escalation plan for mental health. It is a goal of the Government that people with mental disorders should be able to live a dignified life in a normal environment. I pay particular attention to the fact that children and young people with mental disorders will receive the necessary help both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. And it's important that help, whenever possible, is given in the community where children and young people live. But we have to give priority to the municipal effort in the future. Many municipalities still have insufficient facilities for children and young people at risk or who have developed mental disorders. We know that providing help as early as possible is important to prevent mental illness. The number of children and young people receiving help and treatment in specialist health services has increased. Unfortunately, the waiting time has not become shorter – rather on the contrary. We can't have it that way. The government will therefore strengthen the right to health care for children and young people with mental and drug problems. We will do that by introducing a separate waiting guarantee, combined with strengthening the provision in the municipalities. As soon as possible in 2007 I will return to Stortinget with a proposal for changes to the Patient Rights Act at this point. Regional health businesses will continue to work to strengthen the specialised treatment provision for people with mental health problems and will receive a specific mandate to do so next year. Acute psychiatry needs to be strengthened, the quality of the district psychiatric centres and the psychiatric outpatient clinics need to be improved, and productivity needs to increase. Many speakers have been involved in rehabilitation. I agree with what I see is a common desire and goal to strengthen rehabilitation in the future, and I also refer to the interpellation debate that we recently had here in Stortinget. The same is true in the area of drugs, which is another very important area, where we have recently had an interpellant debate. The government will soon come back with the alerted escalation plan in order to get even better in this area. I can assure you that next year, our demands for regional health businesses will also be that psychiatry and alcohol should be given a higher priority than that of somatic care. The government is also concerned — and we are making this visible through the healthcare message we have provided — about improving the quality of the care sector. We need more competence, and I refer to the amount and the plans and measures we have put in that area. We also believe that with a strengthened municipal economy, conditions are very well placed to achieve the target of 10,000 new annual works of skilled personnel by 2009. It is crucial to meet the challenges in the care sector that we face in the years ahead. There are challenges — and, on the other hand, significant challenges — also in a health service that is the best in the world. However, it must not overshadow all the positive developments we are in the midst of: it is a fact that people live a long time in Norway, it is a fact that more and more diseases and injuries can be cured, thanks to human efforts, technology and economic development. Many, despite serious illness, can be given much better quality of life than before, work in society and live longer. These developments require a lot of many, not least wise, decisions on choice and fair allocation of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e240	I want to deal with the problem between Health East and Health South and the possibilities that can be there by either looking at other forms of organization, at aggregation or, if necessary, at how to improve cooperation in order to get something more positive out of it. Because it is quite obvious that there is much that can and should be done here, or that at least should be considered in the coming time. We also know that when New Aarhus is completely finished, the Rikshospital will in many ways have local hospital function for many of those who will be there. This means that you get an accumulation of offers in an area, and then you have to go in and see how you can make the best use of it. We have been invited to look at our proposal together with the Right. My question to the Council of State is then: How can we get this matter back? Is there any possibility that the Council of State, for example: in the context of the revised budget, will the Storting brief on how to think about this, and what has been done, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e250	Let me first repeat that I also see that there are challenges specifically related to the Capital Region and between the two health regions we have there. I believe that there is a basis for saying that there is a part to go on in terms of more cooperation and making even better use of the capacity. Overcapacity is being built up in some areas. I think it must be possible to make better use of the resources than what we see some examples of per. Now. That's the background for me looking at several models of how this can be done. I have not yet concluded, but there is of course nothing in the way that the Government, once it has concluded, informs the Storting appropriately if it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e259	The Minister of Health and Health took over the staf stick from two state councils in the previous government that have clearly identified health policy. Dagfinn Højbråten took a force for public health, and arranged, with both appropriations and legislation, to prevent more in order to repair less. Gabrielsen claimed, for the first time in history, that mental health protection and drug treatment were a priority higher than that of somatic care. The budget of the Brustad Council is clearly the largest investment in hospitals. It's nominally a significant amount, but it only leads to, as the state council itself said in its statement, keeping the status quo, that is, the same level of patient treatment as last year. In most other areas there is a decline in the bet. It is clear from the graphic representation on pages 165 and 166 of the budget proposal that, among other things: relate to mental health protection. So far, we have only heard of the bet on the drug field. My question is, what is the health policy vision that the Council of State is making for its work? What is she going to give the highest priority? And what is it she will be remembered for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e268	I could give a long talk on that! But there's no doubt that this government, and I'm not here for my own part, is primarily concerned with ensuring that everyone gets equivalent treatment, that we counteract social inequalities in health – that's also one of the reasons why we come back with our own strategy in that regard – and that we actually do manage to prioritize those who need it the most. These include: people suffering from mental illness, it is people who, for various reasons, have drug problems. But I disagree with the presentation made by the representative for pay, that there is a decrease in the appropriations. There's evidence of a rise in the appropriations. I have also said for the current year to healthcare companies – and more than that – that they should give priority to psychiatry and alcohol more than somatics. That's a very strong requirement, and I'm going to repeat it for next year. I can also assure you that I am going to follow developments very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e275	I have a question to the Council of State about accumulated debt, which she also came up with in her contribution. The Council of State has probably seen that the Christian People's Party in its alternative state budget has proposed that the Government make a plan for health companies to deal with the accumulated debt once they come into balance. I agree with the views of the Council of State on the dilemma of Prime Ministership and Punishment, and I have not said that the debt should be cleared, but it is about making a plan, because health companies also at this point are asking for predictability. It is also very expensive to serve the debt that health businesses have, and it is probably done in different ways. My question is whether the Council of State intends to address this issue, and whether she intends to deal with it in some way, or in the future just leave all of this to the health companies themselves. It's also the state council that owns the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e282	No, I'm not going to leave it to the health companies themselves, because of course I'm concerned that they should be able to do what they want to do, and it's to get treated – with good quality – as many patients as possible across the country. Then, of course, there's money to do. But in addition to that, I am absolutely sure that we need to get better control in a part of our healthcare companies. There is no doubt that there are in particular two health companies where there has not been good enough economic governance, and then it helps little just to clean up with more money. They need to clean up their own homes, because it is also crucial for proper priorities and for quality in patient care. To the question of debt: part of this so-called debt is not direct debt to the state, so it would not have helped so much to just say that we cancel the debt. But what I perceive is that the representative is concerned about whether we have a plan. I am of the clear opinion that it is fundamentally unfair to have to reward those who have run poorly, compared to those who have actually run well and taken some loads with it. I think there are other steps that need to be taken to facilitate the situation for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e289	Fortunately, we have had several good discussions in this Chamber in the latest on health policy and health economy. In connection with the discussion on hospital economy last week, the Council of State said, among other things, that it must work smarter. I agree with that. But I believe that the Council of State also thinks that health care agencies, both regional and non-regional, need to make smarter decisions. Now it's the way we've got more politicians in the run-up to their heads. Some people might call these politicians abject, but still. Does the Council have the impression that the Governing Council is smarter than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e298	I have great confidence in the members of the board I have appointed in the last year, and I also believe it was an important and proper move to expand with more politicians. I think that along with the good people who are there and who have a different competence, you get more democratic processes into it, and it opens up more to the people. That being said, I'm not going to comment on all the decisions that are taking place around the country. It's their responsibility within the framework that we've drawn up in big business and government. But I want to show that there is no doubt that there is a great difference in the effectiveness of hospitals. Let me use an example. Kragerø Hospital, which in itself is part of Telemark Hospital, has managed to reverse a deficit of 5 million. NOK 1,5 million in surplus. kr in year. They have not done so by making employees run faster, or by treating fewer patients — rather on the contrary — but they have done so in consultation with employees. I think many actually have something to learn from Telemark Hospital and Ringerijk Hospital. I could also have mentioned other hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e305	I think the Council of State must have misunderstood a little when she talked about giving debt relief to the health companies, giving premiums to those who have not been good, and punishing those who have been good. With respect to reporting, it's not the kind of debt we're talking about in our proposal. It would have been nice if the council had read the setting and heard what was said in my post. We refer to the debt related to initial investment. All regional health enterprises in Norway have liabilities. The total debt raised to the state amounts to about 9 billion dollars per year. today. So we're not talking about the accumulated deficit in health companies, because it's covered by the use of liquidity reserves and the use of overdraft loans. That's not the part we're talking about. We're talking about giving up on the bottom, precisely because some people have poor liquidity. Does the Council of State realize that by providing the even debt burden, the 2 billion DKK distributed according to the size of health businesses, that she is not punishing anyone, but that everyone is getting a share in the benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e317	I still mean what I said. I understand that what Nesvik is looking for here is money for investment, for example. Build, if I understood correctly. If you were to cancel a debt for investment, I still think it would be to introduce those who have not related to the financial framework, who have either built too large or built too much. We can have different opinions about that. In addition, my point is that I believe that this is not the best way to facilitate the situation for health businesses, as the situation is now. I think the important thing is to get good financial control and make sure that there is enough money in the system. If we are to have more money, and we are to add up to that, and we will also have to make sure that in the future – much more – we have to make sure that there is order in the sewing business in order to be able to give proper priority. I would also like to add that, as the first government, we are now actually giving advance notice that we are introducing a scheme in relation to investments from 2008, will also clearly be helping to facilitate the situation in which the representative Nesvik is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e330	In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has made a number of proposals that strengthen users of different health services in Norway. Indeed, for the Progress Party, research is an important and priority area. That is why the Progress Party has set aside 9 million in its budget. kr for the establishment of an ADHD centre added to the University of Oslo. Psychiatric health is important, and the Progress Party believes that knowledge related to ADHD and what triggers this is generally too small, and there is good reason to believe that if you can find out more about the disease itself and the course of the disease, it will be easier to detect the disease at an earlier stage. This will also be able to prevent and limit the damage. We have made proposals on this, but that proposal actually states that the revised national budget for 2007 can explain the economic aspect, so that the Government has the opportunity to go into this if they think this is important. And if you're going to listen to what they're saying, they're actually saying that. For the Progress Party, stem cell research is also important. It is still the case that the hopes of research are greater than the results related to research — but there are, in fact, great hopes for this work. We want to strengthen our efforts in this area by 8 million. kr more than the Government. When I say ‘more than the Government’, this is precisely because the government parties claim that there should be an entry in the Ministry of Knowledge budget, chapter. Heading 286 does not apply to We can't find funds there! We also follow up on last year’s proposal to offer pneumococcal vaccination to children at risk, up to school age — 45 million. kr. Local hospitals as a health foundation are important; both emergency hospitalisation, surgery, childbirth and rehabilitation are in many ways fundamental needs in District Norway. It is a little strange to hear representatives from government parties point out that these are important areas of health policy, while in practice their health policy often shows the opposite. Jan Bøhler asked nicely in the opening of his speech if we could ‘get an honest debate’. Yes, we're going to have an honest debate, but then it must also be allowed to describe a situation as it is experienced in District Norway. In North Norway, the situation is critical. The University Hospital in Tromsø is at risk of having to reduce from five days a week to four days a week, with the consequences for patients. This is a situation that is demoralising for employees, preventing students from gaining competence through education and taking exams. The result is that in the future we can have a serious shortage of specialists in health in the north. Unfortunately, the policy of a government that calls itself responsible and at the same time relates to the dream castle Soria Moria has the consequence that the health service in the north is set back many years. Furthermore, the Government talks about the importance of children in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Is this why the Hammerfest Children's Department is in danger of being closed? Is that why half of the rehabilitation department in Kirkenes is already closed? This is reflected in the range of misguided north-eastern policies. Norway’s most important strategic — I kept on saying rhetorical — bets in the north are going to be strange when the government is not even able to ensure its own population security for hospitals, and provide hospitals with content to live with for people in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e349	There have not been so many in this debate, but there has been some black paint on our health and care services. We can be able to paint black by producing all the small pictures, but the large picture of the Norwegian health and care services looks different. I think it was very gratifying that the chairman of the committee just made it clear in his statement. It's important, because our own political credibility is at stake if we just keep complaining. The large picture of Norwegian hospitals is that the vast majority of patients are very happy with the treatment they receive. If we get seriously ill, we get good help. Thousands receive good treatment every day. Thousands of people get their health for their heart disease, for their cancer, and for many other more or less serious diseases. No, everything's not good. Much can be done better. The resources can certainly be better used. There are errors and patients have to wait. There's no one in the government or in the government parties who doesn't understand it. Both the councils and we're just saying that. So we have the best starting point in the world to make the Norwegian health and care service the best in the world, but then we can't use every opportunity on this pulp to add to the burden for all those who do a fantastic job with their patients every day. They've been fighting it in the hospitals. They've had that for years. Changeovers have marked everyday life. Conversions and budgetary balances continue to be required, and in addition, both from us and from patients are expected to be up-to-date on medicine and technology at all times. New treatments are required to keep us fresher. Not enough of that, ever-new patient groups should be dealt with with with with a high level of professional competence, as the Council of State was concerned with. Maybe we should spend a little more time decorating the hospitals, just as the Council of State did, boasting a little of those who meet patients in demanding situations every day, doing a great job. Two days this week, the Health and Welfare Committee has had a debate on different aspects of the drug field. The noise field will become a demanding task in the years to come. We see that there are big problems, we also get great expectations. We look forward to the treatment of the Ruplan. We in the Labour Party too have great expectations of the plan. I think it is good that our minister of health and care holds the tab high for women's health. Finally, women's health really comes on the political agenda. Because we need research on women's health, on women's premises and on women's bodies. We live longer, but we often have worse health. We've copied the man's smoking habits, drinking habits, and working habits. We don't know enough about the effects in the long term. I never hear the medical environments go out so aggressively to discuss typical male diseases. However, we still have professional discussions on, for example, mammography screening. I think it's good if the council doesn't listen to that ear, because we need mammography screening. We should rather assess whether we should go down to age, because we must save women's lives. It's a great victory for women's health that mother surgery is now to become a subspeciality. For a long time, mother surgery has been left-handed surgery. There is one matter that has been raised with several health ministers, and there had to be a female government council to get it in place. Then to the representative Fredriksen, who was up before me. I don't think it's true that the University Hospital of North Norway has said they're going to have four days in the hospital, rather the contrary, the board has decided that there should be five.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e372	The right has primarily prioritised habilitation and rehabilitation in its alternative budget, as the representative described in his statement. We do this priority in recognising that the Norwegian healthcare system is good in saving lives, but that we are not good enough to give people the opportunity to live independently. People affected by illness, injury or disability must have better opportunities to master everyday life and to participate in working and social life. A better provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation will provide many patients with new opportunities while at the same time helping to reduce the need for public care services. From the Right we are very pleased that all parties joined our note that the next major health policy effort must be in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Now it remains, especially for the government parties, to let action follow words. The right has already proposed to allocate 500 million in next year's budget. kr for such a bet. We are disappointed that the government parties do not support this. However, we hope that it will set the standard for the next draft budget of the Government. Within our main field of activity, I would like to highlight in particular the importance of strengthening the provision of rehabilitation for children with disabilities. For these children and their families, good habilitation services will be essential for their quality of life and everyday life. A study conducted by SINTEF on behalf of the Social and Health Directorate shows that patient organisations experience wide variations in supply, both at municipal level and in specialist health services. Individual cases also show that parents do not experience sufficient support from the auxiliaries if they choose alternative training methods. It is therefore important that the Council of State ensures an equivalent offer to parents with disabled children throughout the country. The right is pleased with the support of the other opposition parties to the proposal to establish a user-driven competence and resource centre for parents with disabled children. For parents in such a difficult situation, such a centre can provide important support and information. However, the government parties support the Right’s proposal for an independent review of different methods of training children with brain damage. Then I am concerned that this will not only happen within the national offer, but also international programmes and training methods that are being used must be reviewed. I am concerned that it is carried out by the National Knowledge Centre for Health. I could imagine hearing the Council of State explain the planned progress in this work. To the right, it is essential that we, as politicians, ensure that health services give priority to those who need it the most. When the government of Jagland presented a review of mental health protection in 1997, it showed that the offer of mental illness failed at all stages. This was the background to the implementation of the escalation plan for mental health. In 2007, we go into the ninth and second last year with the escalation plan. We see that the services of mentally ill people are significantly improved quantitatively. The construction of 3,400 furnished dwellings in the municipalities has been promised. There are 75 new district psychiatric centres built, and the number of outpatient treatment has increased by 60 pst. Nevertheless, we still see significant challenges in the field of mental health protection. It is particularly alarming that the average waiting time for children and young people in need of treatment is as long as three months and is increasing. In view of this, it seems to the Right that it is disappointing that the Government is in favour of a smaller increase in the escalation of this field than what the previous government did. I also see that this has been criticised by several hearing bodies during the Committee's budgetary hearing. Although the mental health follow-up plan has provided better services to those with moderate disorders, the reports and feedback from the patient organisations of the supervisory authorities indicate that the most ill patients are still lacking adequate services. It is also disappointing that government parties have not found room for prioritising addicts in their budgets. The $50 million bet. kr is designated by the Board of Directors for the Rusfield as the worst drug budget in eight years. It must be particularly disappointing to the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen, whom I experience has a genuine and commendable commitment in this area. On the right, a doubling of earmarked drug treatment grants is proposed, while on the other hand we are calling for health care companies to give priority to the provision of drug dependence within the additional 300 million. kr for rehabilitation. We know that in this area it is not good enough to refer to generally increased appropriations for hospitals and municipalities. If drug addicts are to receive an offer, we need to be willing at national political level to give priority to raising these patients. Therefore, the right is impatiently waiting for the alerted escalating plan for the drug field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e389	I am pleased that the 2007 draft budget follows up the work on the escalation plan for mental health. There is a job to raise your skills and, among other things, to improve your skills. recruit several psychologists to the municipalities. I refer to the experience of the representative of Thorkildsen in Skien, who shows that it is important that the municipalities have psychological services, so that children and young people get needed help early on. Help should be given primarily near where they live. Measures must be put in place on more than one front. A strengthened offer for children, young people and older people in municipalities is also necessary to obtain good results and to avoid further referral to the specialist healthcare service. Good skills and training courses are, as mentioned above, necessary to achieve this. Higher education in mental health is an important factor in success. The University of Westfold has, among other things: together with – as I know – the University of Gjøvik and the University of Hedmark a two-year master's degree in this. It is an important contribution to the efforts we want in the field of mental health protection. Such public services and public education courses are important contributions and should be further developed. Investing in multidisciplinary education is another contribution. Through SEPREP, a nationwide network of knowledge-building in the field of psychosis and in the field of drug dependence/psychiatric disorders, we will also be able to increase that competence. Here the Committee agrees that there are more possibilities and more ways to go. We therefore ask for an assessment of how this can be carried on for the benefit of those who need it. So to this with hospitals, which take the bulk of our budget, and we'll never stop discussing. We have a good health care system in Norway. Much good can be done, and much can be done better. I was in North Norway a short time ago and was told about the challenges that exist there. When the Progress Party in its draft budget will change the ISF share back to 60 pst, by 40 pst. in basic grants, it is not accepted in Kirkenes. In Sør-Varanger Avis on 25 November, several speakers from different states note that this will be a disaster for the hospitals there and that Health Nord wants a high fixed share because it ensures the local hospitals. They want predictability. They want security. Large hospitals in populace areas will of course be served with a high effort-driven funding, but I do not believe that the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen from Finnmark sees the seriousness of hospital operations in his own county, with the proposal made by the Progress Party. He minimizes South Varanger Avis – that's okay with waiting lists. If the representative Fredriksen was so concerned about health, he might have to wage the fight against his own, not against us. The challenges facing hospitals in the north are not waiting lists and cows, but to create a basis for operation and maintenance with a secure economy. We're going to have a red-green distribution of 40 pst. effort-driven funding, to ensure the operation of the various hospitals, and to meet today’s challenges related to the care of those with complex disorders and the many chroniclers. The position is concerned with improving organ donation offers. We want more serious sick people to be offered a better life, and we show that clearly by putting off 10.4 million. NOK extra to this in our proposal. This could help to make more organ transplants, and we are pleased that the Right supports this important work. One can also be amazed in this matter by the Progress Party, which has been very concerned about this issue, and has even promoted a proposal for a representative there, among other things. The representative of Giltun wishes to increase the capacity of organ donation. When we know that we have implemented approx. 130 donations per week years, will be able to meet the need, but that there will be increased expenditure for donor hospitals, it is strange that the Progress Party is not involved in making money. It turns out once again that money does not follow the good intentions and thoughts of the Progress Party. First page lookups are most important, not implementation. We are pleased that this offer is improving, and hope now that we can give even more hope for a better life. Our budget is a good budget, and we are committed to a great many important health and care issues. Our goals are high, and we are slowly, but surely, a better health care system for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e415	I appreciate the fact that the Workers' Party's Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen mentioned my name in connection with organ donation. It is true that the Progress Party has promoted a proposal there, but the Progress Party has also granted far more to health companies than the government parties have done. So there would be enough money to take care of that matter. It is today that we are dealing with the health and care budget, which has rightly been called the loser in the 2007 state budget. The only areas that are followed by an increase as planned are psychiatry and care, but it largely stops there. However, in these areas there are major weaknesses, both in the organisation of services, follow-up of patients, special skills for health professionals, suitable housing and, in particular, interaction between specialist health services and primary health services. Not many positive feedbacks have been received in the health and care budget of the year, but a lot of concerns have been reported. And there's actually nothing to suggest that it's going to be better for those with permanent chronic disorders, or for those who are old and sick. It's not this group The government looks like they're weak – on which it's going to bet. The disease diabetes affects a lot of people. Today it is likely to be approx. 200,000 here in the country that has this disease, and very many of these don't know that they have it. Developments show that more and more people are getting the disease at an early age, and we have also become aware that in parts of the immigrant population up to 36pst. by women and 21 pst. of men diabetes. This is serious, when we know that the disease can lead to a lot of late complications, such as: foot amputations, renal failure and blindness. Prevention and treatment of this disease will be a major challenge for the health system in the coming years, and urgent action is needed. Prevention is important to the Progress Party, but we show it in action and not just in words. The promotion party was the initiator of a diabetes care plan presented this summer. This plan looks good, but it does little to help with good plans when no funds are allocated to follow up the plans. The budget only allocates funds to employ a strategy director in half, but he has not received any funds at his disposal. The Diabetes Association, on the other hand, has suggested that 30 million. kr must be available to follow the plan, and this has been included by the Progress Party in its alternative budget. Clearly, the government has not understood that more than one press release is needed to get a commitment to research, prevention, training and treatment. The parental care agencies have denied the responsibility for, by only granting money in the large pot called framework transfers to the municipalities. The red-green government is not against earmarking funds when there are things they're burning for, such as. kindergartens. In the case of care for the elderly, there is not a matter for which they burn. So when the Progress Party in its budget proposes to earmark SEK 2 billion for new positions in the care of the elderly in 2007, the Red-Greens claim that it will destroy local democracy. I can't imagine a worse excuse to avoid taking responsibility. In the last ten years, the threshold for getting a sick home place has become unwarrantedly high — compared to Sweden, we actually lack 12,000 sick homes. The government has announced that there will be grants for construction from 2008, but the municipalities do not dare to start construction projects, as they do not know how much this grant will be. Why wait until 2008 when we all agree that the shortage is great today? Elder care has evolved towards the fact that today there are many people who are afraid of old age. In this state budget, there is nothing to suggest strengthening. The alleged increase in positions in municipalities in the care sector does not distinguish whether these are positions directed at the care of the elderly or towards the care sector in general. The Progress Party wants all older people to enjoy the same rights to health care facilities and care services throughout the country. The needs of the individual and not the municipality's economy or local priorities shall determine whether a person in need of a health care centre receives it. The Progress Party will have State funding that guarantees all equal rights to nursing home, nursing home or care in the home. However, pending new and better and more forward-looking funding, we will contribute earmarked funds to the care sector and care for the elderly, as this is an area for which we are burning. The Progress Party is not surprised by the Government's priorities. We would probably have been surprised if the government had fulfilled its promise to bet on the weakest groups. However, we are disappointed – disappointed by the disclaimer shown to the older generation and those who no longer have the power to stand in the court for their case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e441	The health budget presented today has a historically large framework. A total of NOK 106 189,000,000 is granted. That means that today we spend over $22,000 per. integrates every year in healthcare in Norway. All shall have access to good and equivalent health and care services, irrespective of their personal economy and place of residence. This must also be a public responsibility in the future. Norway has for several years been identified by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in — a modern welfare society built up over many decades, based on social democratic values. Justice, community and solidarity have been fundamental to our policies. After the state assumed responsibility for hospitals and established its own health businesses from 2002, we have seen that health spending has increased sharply. Through an active and comprehensive state health policy, a better response will be to provide the population with a health service that is best and, as much as possible, the same throughout the country. Never before has more health been granted, never before has there been more investment in Norwegian health care, never before has more patients been treated, and never before has there been more work in health care than today — with a high level of professional quality. We're high-cost, but at the same time we're also dissatisfied. There will always be tasks and services that can be done better, and there will always be a need for greater appropriations and new offers. The first government that Stoltenberg did was add 600 million to the Bondevik government budget for 2006. For increased patient care. In the 2007 budget, we're adding another 390 million. kr to continue this high activity in hospitals. This means that one can treat almost 35,000 more patients than the Bondevik administration provided for the current year. The appropriations for psychiatry will increase by 700 million. kr. At the same time, there is a further increase of 900 million. kr from 2008, so that the escalation plan for mental health can be followed. The development of district psychiatric centres is important for building capacity, competence and not least proximity to important health services. It is very important that those who work at these district psychiatric centers receive further training, including: through SEPREP to develop good professional quality in district psychiatry. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative to set up a sample to look at how to maintain and develop local hospitals. Local hospitals play a major role in the overall provision of health services in a long-term country such as Norway, and are of great importance for the safety of those living outside the main population centres. If local hospitals are to be an important health service, they must have an offer and content that is proportionate to the needs and expectations. It's not that important offerings and functions in society are static. Every day, important and necessary steps are taken to improve the supply and services of most people. Therefore, it is important in the debate on local hospitals and the tasks they will have that a developer of services to provide people with security based on the tasks and competences of local hospitals. Developments in the health system are rapid. Major advances in medicine, technical solutions and treatments allow people to get help for suffering where they have not had an offer in the past. It is important that the population has confidence in health services. Therefore, health businesses need to have control of operations and investments and one must adapt the activity to the economic framework conditions. The most important thing to be able to fulfil this trust is that the rights spaces and other patients receive the necessary treatment of good quality and not least in a timely manner, and that they do not become wasteballs in an economic game. Not only does the Government increase appropriations on a general basis, but it also makes a foresight to correct the imbalance between health regions, one year earlier than the previous government provided. Add 256 million. SEK to Health West and Health Mid-Norway for 2007. In addition, state councils have taken the initiative to set up a new sample to look at the distribution of income between regional health enterprises. In such a review, one must arrive at a unified understanding of the distribution of income between the different regions. The need to reinvest in new, modern construction and new medical-technical equipment is great. Therefore, the government of Stoltenberg and the Council of State have announced an increase in investments from 60 to 80 p.m. This will mean an increase in investments from 2010 of nearly DKK 1 billion per year. Through the National Health Plan and the annual budgets, the Government and the Stortinget will provide important frameworks for the development of specialist health services and community health services in the years to come. The historical efforts of this government and the majority of the population towards the municipal sector contribute to an important health and care provision for our children and the elderly being given an important and necessary boost in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e473	The Soria Moria Declaration stresses that the Government ‘will solve the major tasks by focusing on Community solutions’. The health budget adopted today means that the hospital economy will be strengthened by SEK 2.2 billion in addition to price and wage growth. It's set at 700 million. SEK to the mental health escalation plan and SEK 28 million. kr for public health work – less social inequality in health. We've never treated so many patients, there's never been so many employees in hospitals before, never before. We're gonna be proud of that. At the same time, we should be humble about the fact that we still have major health policy challenges ahead of us. We still have to improve the hospital economy, we still have to improve patient care, we can still do a lot in e.g.. cancer treatment, intoxication and psychiatry. We shall be proud, but not satisfied. The government parties have said that we should listen to constructive input from the opposition. In this committee setting, there are several issues in which the position and opposition have cooperated well. The best example is that the government parties, together with the Christian People’s Party, are strengthening the contribution to russian care by 20 million. kr. One lot stands out. The party of progress often uses strong words, for example: in the case of the hospital economy, although the representative Nesvik made a moderate contribution today, at a reasonable price. I fully agree that we have major challenges ahead of us, and that is exactly why the government is strengthening the hospitals and will continue to do so. The important thing is what you do, not what you say. Despite the rhetoric of the Advance Party, which involves lifting the law of gravity and promises to bet on both well-being and tax relief, we see how they prioritise when they have to choose. When the Advance Party proposes to spend 25 billion kroner on tax bills and 1.3 billion kroner on hospitals, we see that one is much more important than the other. So in its alternative budget, the Progress Party is adding an increase to the hospitals of 1.7 pst. in relation to the Government's proposals. So it's these 1.7 percent who are going to make the difference in the catastrophic state that the Progress Party says the hospital sector is in, and the reality the Progress Party wants. Since the majority government took over, self-participation 2 has been reduced from NOK 3500 to NOK 2500, and the proportion of physiotherapy has been removed. In this draft budget, excesses are adjusted. On the website of the Progress Party, the Progress Party is raging against increased excesses in the health sector. At the same time, we know that in Ålesund Municipality, where they have party leadership, and the representative Nesvik himself is a city board member, the Progress Party has voted in favour of price adjustment for a number of features of the Presidency. So Nesvik can be involved in increasing municipal ownership from its position on the city council, but races from its opposition position when the majority of the population do the same. You can change your mind, but you can't mean two things at once. The Government’s proposals for a government budget address the imbalance between health regions in line with the Stockholm decision in 2003. It is in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that ‘all ‘must have access to good and equivalent health and care services, irrespective of the personal economy and place of residence’. The creation of bias means 256 million. kr in increased appropriations for the health of the West and the health of the Middle Norway. This will correct the distribution one year earlier than the previous government provided. We're gonna be proud of that. At the same time, we should be humiliating to the fact that there can still be imbalances between the regions. This is why we want even more: the distribution of income between health regions needs to be reviewed to see if there is still a division of income. Once again, there is a great deal of distance between what the Progress Party suggests that they are in favour of through representatives' proposals in the Stortinget, and what they are actually in favour of when they promote their alternative budgets. In the media, big-time representatives from the Progress Party often come across saying that the government has done too little with the division, despite the fact that we have been one year faster than the previous government provided. In addition, the Progress Party proposed earlier this year to correct all the imbalances in the economy of health regions. The cost was estimated at approximately NOK 3 billion. In its alternative draft budget, the Progress Party is adding 50 million. NOK to this. It's great that the Progress Party will deposit this money, but where is the humility in relation to the difference between the rushing statements in the media and the smaller amounts actually being deposited? Health and care policies are doing a lot of good. The Workers' Party is built on hope and faith in the future. At the same time, we are socially critical and will address the challenges ahead of us. That's why we're proud, but not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e509	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e512	On 1 March this year, the Minister of Health answered a written question related to the explosion of capacity within LARiNord. A further 60 drug users were on the waiting list to receive LAR. I then chose to interpret the Council of State's response to the fact that the Government would follow up with increased appropriations for the drug field, including the LAR, but today I can only see that this was not the case. The wait list at LARiNord has not been shorter, but longer. Now more than 70 people are waiting for necessary treatment, and the University Hospital of North Norway reports that the budget has been used up and that an inlet stop has been introduced to LARiNord. There are two questions: Is this in line with the Patient Rights Act, to reject drug addicts who have been referred to LAR? Secondly, how is it possible to provide a budget for 2007 with proposals to increase capacity in LAR by 100 places in total, when the need in North Norway alone is 70 new places? The 2007 red-green health budget can only really be characterised as a major decline for drug users in this country. The department of the drug field has also referred to the budget as the worst effort of eight years. The increase in 100 new LAR sites is complete in the face of reality, and also prompts me to ask whether the department can be aware of the actual evolution in the number of references to LAR. With 100 new places it will take over 50 years to complete this queue. We cannot live with this. According to the Ministry of Health’s own report, the drug situation in Norway in 2006, drug addicts have poor health status and significantly increased risk of premature death, and are in a completely different situation from the general population. In addition, the Health Authority has identified significant deficiencies in both capacity and quality in the provision of drug addicts. There can therefore be no doubt that addicts are among the worst in our society. On 1 January 2004, a time gap was identified in the drug field. Drug addicts were then granted patient rights in line with other patients. But if these patient rights are to have real content, we have to show the will to follow up with greater resources to the subject. The previous government significantly increased the appropriations for drug treatment during that period, and the capacity for medically assisted rehabilitation was also doubled. The previous speaker was concerned that if the opposition promoted constructive proposals, the government parties would vote in favour. I believe that this must be one of the truly constructive proposals that have been promoted, but I note that even this is not good enough for the government parties to vote in favour. The pressured economic situation in Health North and for the University Hospital North Norway is well known. It is therefore essential to provide the health region and UNN with fresh resources, to be able to escalate the capacity of LAR, and to fulfil the patient rights actually granted to drug users in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e527	I want to bring up the thread where Dag Ole Tegen stopped, because I believe that the Progress Party has a lot to answer for in its health policy. I'll take three fields. Firstly, the Progress Party lacks a policy of prevention. With their alcohol policy, where you want Swedish alcohol fees, beer sales around the clock, wine and alcohol in shops, alcohol advertising, I think, and a liberal tipping policy, we will have a massive increase in alcohol-related problems that not least health care and justice will notice. With their working life policies with support for increased overtime and more temporary employment, less regulation and less emphasis on professional organisation and large cuts in NAV, many will have it tougher and we will have a more brutal working life with more permanent support. With their policies for increasing differences, increasing privatisation and less help for children suffering, we will have problems that will arise, among other things. in increasing crime and health problems. Childhood is particularly important for our health later in life. A cut of almost 400 million. The protection of children is irresponsible and highly critical. The Progress Party lacks an environmental policy and will have a full release of private cars at the expense of collective solutions. That's what's going to cause health problems. Tobacco taxes are going down. How many more COLS cases will the Progress Party expect if they are controlled? The progress party should really have bottles worth far more billions for hospitals than they have proposed in their alternative budgets, if they are serious about all the proposals that will lead to worse health for most people in Norway. With regard to bureaucracy, which is the second point, the representative Jan Bøhler has explained well why there is an increase in bureaucracy with the budget of the Progress Party. The bureaucrat here in Oslo is just blueberries in relation to what we will get with the Progress Party's retirement model and a hospital directorate where the money will follow the patient. Furthermore, it would be extremely expensive to have the overcapacity of the batch at all times if everyone were to act as a customer in a health market and to choose freely. Planning for such a regime means additional employees and thus increased bureaucracy. The third concerns the non-fulfilment of promises. There I would like to highlight the commitment of the party to the media, with enough words to make it possible for most people to expect follow-up in the party's alternative budgets. But no, there's no money for one and the other. We don't find anything about organ donation, no money for avian influenza vaccines, and only small amounts of money to correct more of the imbalance between health companies, which Nesvik in Romsdal's Budstikke on October 7th is counting to 437 million. kr extra just for Health Mid-Norway. In the same interview, he says that the director of Health Mid-Norway, who was reasonably satisfied with the addition of the government, did not do his job. Does Nesvik do his job? The representative Nesvik has said that I am out of control. Is it such that on itself you know others, and isn't it soon time that the party takes a review of realism and the sustainability of its own policies before it uses such big words about others?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e538	It must be allowed to note after the last speech that the figures for the parties to the government in this debate obviously have slightly different views of the line on which the debate should be based. So to the main post of the Council of State: I listened with great interest to what she said about the need for better coordination between Health South and Health East. I really just missed one thing from the Council of State, namely that she also explicitly confirms that when she says that she will evaluate different models to get this done, she includes the model contained in the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right for the aggregation of the two. There have been several discussions about the hospital economy, and in the change of lines with Jan Bøhler, I had the feeling that I did not get a clear answer to the question of how it all goes together that the three government parties that were agreed in the previous period agreed that there is a total of NOK 8 billion needed to meet the need for depreciation and replacement of equipment in the health sector – that is also the natural reading of the Soria Moria statement at this point – now after a year has come to the conclusion that there is enough NOK 1 billion, i.e. a difference of DKK 7 billion by 2010. In order to underline the difference in reality, I should like to quote what the Health Policy Spokesman for SV said in the June debate last year in Odelsting, where this is addressed: “This means that the 2 billion that the Government has granted – that is, the government at that time – “has tried to hide through creative bookkeeping that you need to come in with an annual addition to what you grant today, you have to come in with them if you don’t sit down and see that the building stock falls due, that the equipment can’t be renewed, and that the facilities are lost.” These are quite strong words, and I still miss an explanation of how a completely different assessment has been made after a year. And then a little follow-up last of my little line-up with the Health Minister instead. I asked for something that I can extend to also concern the national health plan. It is a shame that the National Health Plan is presented to the Storting only as an annex to the budget, because this leads to that in this debate we have virtually not discussed it at all. It would have been desirable if we had got it as our own document. What I miss in the excellent overview of all the challenges is a clear indication of the Government's willingness to give priority. Because it has long been agreed in health policy that this is what it really is about, the ability and the willingness to prioritise. I miss that in the draft budget that we have been presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e557	It must be a big misunderstanding when one believes that the Progress Party is pursuing a policy that makes the district hospitals not going to have the right to life. It would be nice if you actually took the time it takes, and read what actually stands there, and see what money lies there. We are strengthening both basic funding and ISF funding. Then you can mean what you want about one or the other, but it's right there. It goes without saying that both for us in the Health Committee and for the different hospitals in the country, it's the most obvious thing in this world that you try to operate and keep an activity that means that you can handle as many patients as possible in a responsible way. This situation is in North Norway today, you limit the activity, because you lose money on it, and the queue with patients gets longer. That's the daily situation up there. And you very often get the answer you want, in relation to who you want to talk to. As the only party, we have made proposals to increase aid to Murmansk and Arkangelsk in addition to the Government's proposals. I find it very sad to see that the Nordic Council of Ministers is cutting the social and health budget by 14.7 p.m. This year we have the chairmanship of the International Polar Year, we have the President of the Nordic Council, we have the leadership of the Arctic Council, and we have the Vice-Chairmanship of the Northern Dimension of the European Union. At the same time, we feel that there is no priority in relation to the health situation in our neighbouring country. When we know that this neighbouring country has the densest and most frequent composition in terms of multi-resistance tuberculosis, and the problems of infection are large in relation to common tuberculosis and related to HIV/AIDS, we don't want to go into it and give it any more priority. This is sad reading, because this is also about those sitting at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e568	I'm going to try to answer a couple of the representatives' posts, and I'm going to start with the representative Teg. It is obvious that the representative Tegen has not read the entire budget, because if Tegen reads in our alternative budget, he will see that we have taken the TNF-inhibitors out of the regional health companies and finance them through the state. It is also necessary to add that sum in terms of strengthening regional health enterprises. So here, there's over SEK 1.5 billion in strengthening the basic appropriations of regional health companies. In addition, EUR 2 billion is related to debt relief for regional health businesses. We have to take the whole sum and not just take it apart. That's how you read a budget, things affect each other -- or as Gro Harlem Brundtland said, things are hanging together. Furthermore, I would like to say a little word to the representative Thorkildsen. I wondered here for a while if I had come to a school debate – if I was actually in the staging room. But at least I'm going to make sure to answer a couple of the recordings of the representative Thorkildsen. In the case of organ donation, the Government has not proposed a single crown in this field. You take off that appropriation that's already there, and you say 10.4 million. kr shall be available for use in this field. You don't have one additional penny. The Progress Party has allocated additional DKK 1.5 billion to regional health businesses, so that it can also address this issue. So to the bias distribution. It was actually the government parties who agreed to vote down the proposal that the Progress Party had promoted. It's neat, as you're about to do, that you make a decision that there's a sample to look at just this and agree on these amounts. We accept that, and we wait until the sample report is available before we promote a final proposal for crowns. As far as organ donation is concerned, the Progress Party has also proposed it, but the majority of the Committee decided that it should not be dealt with before the end of the year. The progress party tried to get it to, but it didn't. And then it's actually so that we have to take it over, and then we'll see what the final treatment will be when it comes to the committee. I think that reality has really hit hard in the head of the representative Thorkildsen. It's obvious that Thorkildsen should go back and see what you've done yourself before, before trying to judge others. Then it may be that there is a light coming up for her, related to what you have actually said at an earlier time. It can also pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e585	As I was in a previous post, mental health services have been significantly improved quantitatively, but there are still significant challenges in mental health protection, and I feel that there is a broad consensus on that. As I was told, it is particularly alarming that the average waiting time for children and young people in need of treatment is as long as three months, and that it is increasing. In view of this, I still believe that it is disappointing that the Government is in favour of a smaller increase in the escalation plan in this field than the Right Minister of Health and the Cooperation Government has provided. It's a slowdown from the past. No matter what the government parties are trying to say here tonight, it's clear from the Ministry's graphic presentation in the budget statement on pages 165 and 166. Although the escalation plan has provided a better supply of mental health protection to many with moderate disorders, the reports and feedback from the patient organisations of the supervisory authorities indicate that the most ill still lacks adequate provision. Monitoring the use of coercive measures under the auspices of the Health Inspectorate shows that patients who are so ill that they must be treated with coercive measures also have very poor living conditions in the form of homelessness and poverty. The right has proposed the development of a separate action plan to improve the provision of these patients. It's totally incomprehensible to me that the government, which talked so much and warmly about community in the election campaign and about taking care of those who need it the most, now fails to support a proposal that will improve the situation of some of the most disadvantaged in society. I would like to hear from the Council of State that they do not support a separate action plan for the sickest patients in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e596	It was the representative of Aspaker who made me speak. It concerns LAR patients in North Norway. Let me immediately make it quite clear that it is quite unacceptable that a patient group with high treatment needs does not receive the necessary health care. The Ministry has today been in contact with Health Nord, who can assure them that they have pointed this out to the LAR in the north. And in a letter dated 5 December from Health Nord to the University Hospital of North Norway, it is stated that the economic situation cannot have the consequence that the treatment offered to a group of patients is assessed in isolation in priority and economic context. This means that the treatment provision for a patient group cannot be deprioritised, as was the case at the University Hospital of North Norway. I would also like to stress that, unlike Mr Aspaker's representative, the LAR is an area of activity for this government. That was the background for us, once we took over the government, over 90 million. kr more for care in rural areas, of which 50 million. kr was to LAR, and in next year's budget we have also proposed money for this. That doesn't mean we're in the goal, but that means it's a start. And calling it a great depression I mean to take – to say it mildly – something hard in. I can also confirm that in the order document, or mission document, for regional health businesses next year, I will again ask that the growth in drug treatment and psychiatry be stronger than the growth in somatic care. But I repeat, LAR patients have the same right to treatment as all other patient groups, and I'll take care of that. So I would also say, because it has been in the debate, and the representative Olsen has been involved, that in terms of UN and four-day weeks, the board of UN has confirmed that it will be nothing of it. It's another example, at least in my opinion, that it's dangerous to conclude before you see what you're actually landing with. The same applies to medical training. Of course, it has to pass. So to the question from the representative Wohning about whether my assessment of different models in terms of the capital area and Health South and Health East actually means that all models are being evaluated. The answer to that is yes, but I must stress that we have not concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e607	In central Norway, the last election was a great deal about health and the situation at St. Olav's Hospital. As long as I have been in politics, I have not experienced the husband of promises that came from the current state councils Trond Giske and Øystein Djupedal in that election campaign. It was against former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen, who got the smooth layer. Gabrielsen, along with former Health Minister Højbräten, had been running for four years, had reduced health cows and halved the waiting time. But there are still challenges in health services. What upset me was the way you mentioned Gabrielsen, and the promises you made, which you obviously didn't try to follow up. You guaranteed a psychiatry building – you guaranteed it. It was to be financed. Now state council says that this can take over the health region's operations. But how to finance a new psychiatry building when it's set up to cut 350 million. Do you really want to delete this item? At an election meeting in Trondheim, we were all pressed for this, and some of us said that this would be tough within the framework laid down. Then it was interpreted as if we were without a heart layer. I have to say that the way you're going after, like just later on, as if those promises have never been given, and don't make any attempt to follow up, the people of Central Norway are rebelling. There are as strong reactions as one rarely sees in the political context. It is clear that it also upsets people when Trond Giske says to the Address Paper on 26 August: “Our promises are of course anchored in the party and the party management.” We have to cover the hump costs, the extra costs, one has to run a hospital, and at the same time build a new one to 150 million. kr. We're going to correct the bias distribution of 400 million. SEK – 500 million. kr, it was said here in the hall, and that's probably more correct. Nothing has happened. They say, "We've done so much." But how could you have done so much when you haven't fulfilled one of the guarantees? We now read that the hospital has to save 350 million kroner. kr, that the health cows in Central Norway are increasing, that in the North Trondelag they have to cut 80 million. kr, and in addition, Røros Hospital and Orkdal Hospital are facing a large cut. At least it hasn't improved when you have to cut, and the promises have not been tried. I have to say that we are following the Health Budget and what the Labour Party is doing in the government position, very carefully in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e614	I see in a press release sent from the Right on 20 November 2006 that the government of Stoltenberg does not lift a finger to correct the imbalance between health regions, and will not grant more money to hospitals in Norway. It uses expressions like incredible, regrettable, not worth the paper it's written on, ashamed, does not lift a finger, disappointed and stated. I would like to remind the Right and the representative Burnde of what his former Councillor Gabrielsen said to the Address Paper on 26 August 2005: ‘The upsurge is already high over the health resources allocated to Central Norway. Should we further change the key to the distribution of operating resources to the benefit of the inhabitants of central Norway, this would be devastating for the internal trust and tranquillity of the regions. Yes, I suppose it will trigger a full war." That's not enough. Gabrielsen also made it very clear that there is no need to increase the operating framework for Health Mid-Norway and for the extension project at St. Olav's Hospital. Yeah, well, I guess it's a little clearer than that. Then there was not much help to get. Right and Børge Burnde tests in opposition to imagining people that they now have so much more money to route with than what they had in their own government just a year ago. Only after one year has the Council of State Sylvia Brustad and the Government this evening signed out the entire adopted misalignment of 256 million. kr. SEK 2.9 billion. I received a receipt in the construction phase for only a few months after we joined the government. 140 million. kr. is granted to Health Mid-Norway, 30 million. kr. to Møre and Romsdal and 110 million. kr. to the Hospital of St. Olav to continue construction phase II. We'll give 600 million. kr. more than the Bondevik Government and the Right did in its 2006 draft budget. It's in the position and in the government one gets to show what one stands for, and what one actually prioritizes, not in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e630	I would like to return to an important issue that the representative Inge Wohnning raised both in a line change and in posts later today, that the red-green parties lack 7 billion kroner in investments to take care of the real values of the building mass in the hospital sector, as we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. I didn't quite understand where the figures were 8 billion kroner and the difference of 7 billion kroner came from, but now I understand what that is. To get into 100 pst. the coverage of hospital building depreciation – against the 60 pst of the current and the previous government. – you need NOK 2 billion more in investments per year. 2 billion dollars times 4 is going to be $8 billion. The government is adding up to 80 pst. depreciation, i.e. a rise of 1 billion per year. years. When you're up that level, the difference between 100 pst. coverage of 2 billion per year. years and 80 pst. Coverage of 1 new billion per day. years amount to 4 billion DKK in four years – not 7 billion DKK. In the case of the nucleus here, in 80 pst. coverage is enough to take care of the real values of the building mass of the hospitals, as wages showed that we have promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, or if we break that promise, it is not as simple as that it must be 100 pst. Depreciation to take care of the real values, i.e. there must be 2 billion new per. years in investments. It is also true that the use of construction, like everything else, can be made more efficient, so that one does not necessarily have to have 100 pst. Coverage of depreciation, i.e. NOK 2 billion in new investments per year. year, to fulfill the promise of the Soria Moria Declaration. So the government has come to 80 pst in this round. coverage is enough to keep the real values. Now we'll first look at the experience of this in the years that are coming, before we say we'll increase more. And 80 pst. Coverage – 1 new billion per. year – is at least much better than 60 pst. coverage of the building mass, as provided under the previous government. That the government has notified this now, the hospitals provide predictability enough to plan the investment policy and are therefore very positive. I would also like to say, with regard to the investment needs of hospitals, that the Government and the Ministry should follow the overall investment plans, not only in the Oslo area, but in all health regions. It now seems that the plans are up to NOK 42 billion. in the coming years. We must renew, improve and invest, but we must not overinvest, so that we have problems with overcapacity and lack of resources for operation. This is a question we should pay increasing attention in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e641	President! Can I correct a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e648	No, no, no. The President will request that the representative appear on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e651	It was the representative Burnde who made me take the floor. I first want to say that I believe St. Olav's Hospital is going to be a great hospital, a modern hospital, and I also want to say that we have a constructive dialogue with Health Mid-Norway about the process they are now in. When the representative Burne from this pulpit says that this government ‘does not try to follow up’ and ‘nothing has happened’, I must respectfully say that I believe that the representative Burne is going too far, two months after we took over, this government gave NOK 2.9 billion to complete phase 1. We gave the Mid-Norway health region, to complete what they thought was room for phase 2 in conjunction with other investments in the region, a $140 million promise. kr for investments. Health Mid-Norway and St. Olav's Hospital have received their share of the 500 million. extra kr that was given to the hospital for the current year. This government has corrected the imbalance between health regions one year early in the run-up to the Storting decision, and Health Mid-Norway has got its share of that money. Health Mid-Norway, as the only region in the country, has also been allowed to push on its balance sheet requirement equivalent to 350 million for the current year. kr. So I believe that this government has done more in a year than the government that Børge Burnde was part of, did in all the years they were in government. I would also like to say that it is not long since we received a crushing report from the National Audit Office on how the management of that hospital was. I believe that everyone deserves to take over. And I really hope that the representative Burnde is also concerned that we get good financial control at that hospital as well. It's not just a good idea to spend more money if you don't have the order of business, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e662	It is quite right, as Mr Asphjell pointed out, that former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen did not make airy promises in the election campaign. On the contrary, Gabrielsen started the job of cleaning up a number of conditions at Health Mid-Norway that had to be addressed. But then there was someone on the side line, among other things. Mr Asphjell, the current Council of State, Mr Giske and Mr Djupedal, said that these are changes that cannot be taken into account. Who has gone too far – the Council of State was involved – there is no doubt about it. It was those who made airy promises during the election campaign, who have actually made no attempt to follow up. Governments were involved in a number of initiatives that have been taken. But remember, it was guaranteed to the people of Central Norway that the psychiatrist was going to be in place. It was the most important thing in the election campaign in central Norway, and it also struck the current state councils of Djupedal and Giske firmly. Where does the psychiatrician stand today? There's no psychiatrician going on. Of course, it cannot be financed from operating costs when you have to cut 350 million. kr. The hump costs of 150 million. kr was guaranteed. State Council Gieske even said that this would come in the additional proposition last autumn. No one has seen anything about this money. Under the then government council Gabrielsen the health cows went down, and the waiting time was halved. We were on the right track. So it says that now it's done so much. But you can't underestimate people in Middle Norway. You didn't drop bed posts, you didn't halve geriatric ward when Gabrielsen was a state councillor! In the Soria Moria Declaration, I read when I prepared for this debate that we should: ‘strengthen the economy of hospitals so that several patients are treated and waiting times are kept low’. Then I read: Health, North Tree Teams have to save $80 million. kr in the 2007 budget. St. Olav's Hospital removes 300 years' worth of work. St. Olavs Hospital will have to save you NOK 300 million. Then the matter is so simple that the health service you are now getting in the middle of Norway is not getting any better. There won't be any psychiatrist, the puck costs won't be covered. I think it's sad. I also found the treatment Ansgar Gabrielsen received during the election campaign to be sad. He was simply treated very badly when he tried to fix this. So I've actually taken the word because I'm personally indignant in this case here, but of course I'm also in charge of the patients in Central Norway getting a good offer. That's part of my job. I am very surprised that promises are not kept – it is now their case – but that it would be a deterioration and cut, I had not expected that. Even with the spells of the Council of State, you can't talk away from the cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e684	The representative of Inge Wohnning has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e687	I thank the Council of State for its clarification on Health East and Health South. On the basis of what the Council of State said, the Right and the Progressive Party will ask that proposal No. 2 shall be converted into a transmission proposal and the wording shall be corrected accordingly. So to Jan Bøhler's last post. It is quite clear that the representative of Bohemia has misread the budget proposal, for it explicitly states the following: ‘This State budget proposes to escalate the allocations to health businesses together’ – in total – ‘bn. 1 billion. 2007-krones over the years 2008 to 2010 so that health businesses can recover about 80 pst in isolation. of the construction and equipment which they took over in 2002». It is obvious that there is a misunderstanding when the representative Bohemia interprets this so that there will be a escalation of NOK 1 billion per person. years. But the main problem remains in relation to the $8 billion proposed in the Soria Moria Declaration, and the current government parties. There's a difference of $7 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e701	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e704	In my previous post, I asked a very specific question to the Council of State, without getting an answer. It was for the sickest patients, and that they lacked an adequate offer. A monitoring — which I was in charge of — of the coercive use of health services shows that patients who are so ill that they are being treated with coercion, also have very poor living conditions, in the form of homelessness and poverty. The right has proposed the development of a separate action plan to improve the provision of these patients. My question to the Council of State is – once again – to hear the reasons why there is no support for the proposal for a separate action plan for the sickest patients in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e711	Jan Bøhler has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e714	First of all, I would like to say that it is very positive that the Right and Advance Party have announced that they will submit the proposal concerning Health East and Health South. In this way, we can have a broad and thorough process of achieving better cooperation between hospitals in the Oslo area. With regard to what the Representative for Wage raised regarding the level of investment from 2010, and what the budget says is that there will be a total of NOK 1 billion more in 2010, I can only confirm that what I said is right. It is also confirmed by the Council of State. We're going to step up to 2010 to a level of $1 billion more in investments per year. years, i.e. 80 pst. coverage. I talked about the term 'depreciation'. From then on, it's going to be $1 billion more per. years in investments, i.e. 80 pst. coverage. This means that there will be an escalation over these years in which investments will together rise to that level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e721	Jorod Asphjell has the word twice and gets the word to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e724	Just one question to the representative Burnde: what would the situation in Middle Norway have been like if Gabrielsen and Right had continued to sit by the power? We didn't get 600 million. kr in addition to activity. We had not cleared the debt of Phase 1 of NOK 2.9 billion. We didn't get 140 million. SEK for investments in Health Mid-Norway. We had not been able to correct the imbalance one year before, which we started already in the revised national budget. Psychiatrician, I think I'll be there. It shall be financed from the operational budget. This is about the sale of property and rationalising operations in several areas. Health Mid-Norway says they're going to do this, within the limits they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e731	Børge Brende has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e734	I wasn't going to take the floor, but Asphjell asked me a specific question: how would it have been if the bourgeois government had continued? The answer can be seen, among other things. in the alternative budget of the Right. Hospitals would have been strengthened by half a billion. We're forcing the creation of the bias distribution between the regions, with 50 million. kr, and we require the Government to make a follow-up to this in the revised national budget. I'm glad that Asphjell again took up the promise that the psychetry would come. This was not included in the additional proposition last autumn, as promised in the election campaign. Psychiatry may have to come during the period and operational budget will be financed. Then there will have to be significant changes. People in Central Norway were promised something much better in the election campaign. It will be as if in a tranny about her who was promised a trip to the Riviera: It was a trip with the Rørosbanen, and hardly so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e746	I just feel the need to say, as it is now being tried to create the impression that patients in Central Norway are not to be guaranteed a proper and good health service, that of course they should. I also record that the representative Burnde is now suddenly doing a whole lot of opposition that he was not in the vicinity of doing while he was in government. I take note of that. What I'm more amazed at is that the representative Burnde doesn't seem to take over the crushing report of the National Audit Office on the financial management in Health Mid-Norway and especially at St. Olav's Hospital. I think everyone deserves to take seriously what the Riksrevision says. At least this government is doing it. There is also no doubt that, for several years – even in the period when Burne himself was in government – there was poor financial management, but there was no big deal about it. I believe that one should ensure that all patients get the offer they need. If it's the case that St. Olav's hospital can't do it, we'll make sure that other hospitals do it, so that people are covered by the law we have. This government intends to give more money to that hospital and to this region. We have a constructive dialogue with Health Middle Norway about this, but I do not think there is any reason to create more uncertainty than necessary. I think the numbers of what this government has actually done speak for itself. This government has done significantly more than the Børge Burnde is trying to give the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e759	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e762	Although I'm a resident of Health Mid-Norway, I'm actually not going to interfere with the discussion between the two representatives of South-Trunde Teams. Several times the Council of State has pointed to the National Audit Office's report relating to Health Mid-Norway and St. Olav's Hospital. It is true that 2005 figures have been reviewed by the Riksrevision. The Council of State has from this pulpit further reinforced the criticism, as I perceived her post. Then I have to ask the Council of State the following question: Will this have any consequences for those who have run into Health Mid-Norway? I ask, as the Chair of the Storting is now criticising those who were responsible in 2005. Some of them are actually responsible today. I think we should be able to get an explanation for this, because the criticism has been so strongly expressed by this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e769	It has already had consequences, because the board of Health Mid-Norway has been replaced. It happened in January. I also record that the board has replaced the board of directors at St. Olav's Hospital, and that there has been a change at the director's place there. It's their choice and their responsibility. So it's clear that this has had some consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e774	There has been a discussion here about what the previous government knew, and what should have been intervened in when it came to operations in Health Mid-Norway and at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. Then I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that what the Riksrevision report really does address is a development in the economy that did not start with the budgets that this health company was actually allocated. They sat and listened to a red-green opposition that promised them gold and green forests, and they provided for an operation that was completely irresponsible in relation to the budgets they were actually allocated from the Ministry of Health during that period. I think you should be so honest in the name of propriety that you admit it. Then one can say that we have a problem if it is that health care companies have their loyalty somewhere other than with the owner, with the government that sits at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e779	I now believe, as I have always thought – and so it must also be in the case of hospitals – that loyalty must lie with the one who is always the owner, regardless of the colour of the party. The National Audit Office's report, with which the representative is very well known, should also be dealt with here in Stortinget, and I would like to await that treatment. There is no doubt that there is a relationship in it that I think one should take seriously, but for our part we have a constructive and good dialogue with Health Mid-Norway to ensure the inhabitants of Health Mid-Norway a good health care even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e786	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e802	On a proposal from the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of a reply of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e811	This matter concerns the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of four legal acts in a legislative package concerning the creation of a single European sky. The Single European Sky package establishes Community competence in an important field of aviation. Air traffic in Europe could double by 2020. The aim of the EU initiative for this legislative package is to prevent major delays in air traffic in the years to come. It is claimed that therefore a more dynamic airspace management must be provided, in particular for the upper portion of the airspace used for overflight operations. This includes, inter alia: joint civil and military planning of airspace use. To date, each Member State in Europe has maintained its organisation of air traffic management on a purely national basis. Only to a small extent has in Europe been intergovernmental cooperation in the organisation of air traffic services with cross-border responsibilities. National traffic centres operate on the basis of different systems and according to different rules, and it is claimed that the procedures for communication and transfer of responsibility for the flights are not optimal. The Committee is divided into its views on this matter. All lots other than the Advance Party give their full consent for inclusion. The Progress Party has divergent proposals, and I should like to explain them in more detail. Of course, the Progress Party shares the desire to prevent delays in air traffic both nationally and internationally, and sees the need for action that also includes international cooperation. However, the EEA Agreement is leading to increasing EU alignment in more and more areas. The fact that such cases are often dealt with as despatch cases through so-called consent proposals, as this proposition is, considers the Progress Party to be an unfortunate development. Our impression is that Norway is often aware of the unfortunate consequences for Norway of EU Council Regulations and Directives by means of superficial procedures and rapid implementation only afterwards. As a fresh example, I can refer to provisions relating to Norwegian vehicle combinations that have caused some practical problems and reduced road safety. The Progress Party believes that the Storting should take better time to deal with such matters and that the role of the Storting in the proceedings should be strengthened significantly. If and when it is done quickly and superficially, complaining becomes a suture in the boys' room because the Stortinge acts as the EU dispatch office. Under the EEA Agreement, EU laws and directives become Norwegian domestic policies. There is therefore reason to address such matters with thoroughness and vigilance — and also with much greater transparency — in the national Parliament. Matters likely to affect the sovereignty of Norway should be dealt with in particular in detail. The Executive Board has taken note of the Ministry's assessment of the relationship with the Constitution, which concludes with: ‘Connection to cooperation on a single European sky does not imply a renunciation of sovereignty over Norwegian airspace’.» In the conclusion of the proposition, the relationship with the Basic Law is considered once more and it states: ‘All in all, it is assumed that the accession to the acts of the single European sky package, as they are now designed, does not raise issues of sovereignty that are problematic in relation to the Basic Law § 1 and § 93.’ Sustained, President! The Progress Party wants a more thorough assessment and assessment of the impact of the implementation of a single European sky on Norwegian sovereignty. The case refers to the cross-subsidy system in the tower service in Avinor. The Ministry refers to a letter from the European Commission stating that it will be possible to continue today’s cross-subsidy. It is strange that copies of the said letters are not attached, as far as such an important aspect of Norwegian aviation policy is concerned. Documents relating to the case should be available in Norwegian and should follow the case as an annex. This matter is neither about cancelling the EEA Agreement nor about vetoing it. It may appear where such issues come later. This case, in the opinion of the Progress Party, concerns open and detailed proceedings – including EEA cases, where we are invited to adapt Norwegian laws and regulations to EU laws and regulations. We therefore want to send the matter back, for a closer and more thorough investigation. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e860	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e863	The Labour Party and the majority have joined the Inn. S No 46 for 2006-2007, which will give us a single European sky. We are facing significant challenges when estimates of air traffic in 2020 show that we are moving towards an increase of 50 pst. of current air traffic. This is worrying in many ways, not least for the environment, given the high CO2 emissions that air traffic represents. But there are other challenges to this integration will be involved in solving. However, I believe that we should also take the opportunity to take this as a signal to all of us that we need to take the environmental challenges seriously and start thinking differently about the journeys that are currently taking place in passenger air traffic. However, today's issue is most concerned with putting in place a system that will ensure coordination between European countries, although the efficiency of overflights through more direct routes could slow down the growth of emissions. The main elements of the Regulation are the introduction of a distinction between upper and lower airspace and the obligation on Member States to restructure airspace. This Regulation requires the establishment of functional airspace blocks, i.e. major areas under common control, which at the upper flight level could have a better trajectory. The subdivision shall be independent of borders in order to ensure the most effective closure of air traffic, thereby helping to address the major capacity problems involved in creating delays for ordinary passengers around Europe every day. It may seem that the Progress Party did not have the new and active EEA policy of the Government, which does exactly what is described in the comments of the Progress Party, namely that it is early in the processes to influence and safeguard Norwegian interests. I am uncertain as to what is really meant by «exploring the consequences» in the proposals of the Progress Party. As I see it, we have been presented with a very thorough review of all aspects of these regulations that could affect Norway and Norwegian interests. The key in this context is that the establishment of these cross-border airspace blocks does not directly result from the acts on the pan-European airspace. This can be done, for example. to the effect that the EU cannot force the establishment of cross-border airspace blocks and that no time-frame is established for the division of airspace into functional blocks. However, the Commission has said that they will look into it informally if there has not been any development in five years. I think it is important that we now look ahead and do what is government policy, namely to get into matters early. I think this is particularly important when it comes to concluding bilateral agreements on airspace blocks where Norwegian airspace is involved. I note with pleasure the new commitment of the Advance Party to working with the EEA Agreement. In the case of exclusive rights for Post Norway by letter mail of less than 50 grams, the Progress Party would, for example, throw Norway into free competition even before decisions were taken in the EU. In spite of this, they would have raised strong objections from several parties to the impact of the proposal. However, those acts are without prejudice to national airspace control and effective control can be ensured through the design of any block agreements. The real competence of the Norwegian authorities to manage and discharge air traffic over Norwegian territory is ensured by the requirements of Norwegian implementing legislation. Finally, I can give an example of the fact that we still have control: it is still the case that the Regulation will allow the Government to develop the Meteorological Institute as the sole provider of meteorological services in the future, and thus also help to ensure the continuation of an important Norwegian competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e887	Let me conclude with the points that the representative of Wickholm had when it galvanized the growth of air traffic in Norway, which is huge, and which leads to greater and greater problems relating to our international climate commitments. It is not exactly that the Progress Party has been most busy. Then it's nice to be able to mention that the Government in this context is actually working on an arrangement about a high-speed train that can do something about that problem as well. There is no way this Government will intervene. The fundamental objections that the Progress Party comes up with seem to me to be interesting, because they relate to how active we are in relation to our policies linked to the EU, at least now in this case. Not all things are interesting for the Progress Party to grips with when it comes to the EEA Directive, I have been able to do so for many years. Interestingly, this has been a small thing in the past, but the representative of Sortevik may have announced a new line for the Progress Party. That's in case good. The problem, whether a given sovereignty of the EU system through the EEA Agreement, is something that should be very conscious of – and that is the Government. I myself have been working on this issue for eight years. I agree with the representative Sortevik that previous governments have very often sat here and – to put it in my words – gaped and swallowed away from different directives without going into them critically, even though many of us have tried to do so. I can mention the veterinary agreement, the gas market directive, the baby food directive – a series of directives that Stortinget has not been properly treated. The party of progress is also passive in relation to this. So if this is a new line, that's good. What's open with the Regening is that we've already started to grab some grips. We have said that we can't find ourselves in the issues related to relapses in the EEA. We have said that we should spend six months on the Services Directive, to look at the consequences for Norway. In a couple of areas, we already do what the Blackevik representative points out, and that's good. It is absolutely necessary that we do not now do what other governments have done, namely passively accept the directive, but that when we work on the directives in Brussels and when they come here, we take time to see that we do not give up sovereignty. With this hindrance, I think the proposal from the Progress Party is understandable, but I expect them to have the same attitude to several directives that had to come, even though they are some of the contents – but I doubt that will happen. I think our new red-green government shows that it is taking active action in European policy and is pursuing a more active policy in relation to the EEA Agreement and how it operates in Norway. In this case, it is quite clear, as it also says, that there is no waiver of sovereignty – this is not in conflict with the Constitution. I'll take that for granted. If there are any later issues that will conflict with the Constitution, I assume that the Storting will get them treated. I'm finishing up on the government's policy in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e900	It's getting late in the evening, and you'd think it was the foreign debate that went on. On the basis of the submissions that have now been made, I would rather recommend that they be kept in connection with the processing of the European notification, which is likely to be given by Christmas once. There are, among other things: The right raised the issue of a more open handling of the EEA issues, and I think that is necessary. It is a bit right to be able to say what this matter is really about – it is a great joy for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian passengers who are travelling. Thanks to the EU, the European nations are finally joined together, creating a single European sky and starting to organise it better. The representative of Wickholm was concerned about the environmental problems associated with flight – so are we. That is why the Right has taken the initiative to investigate a high-speed rail that the Government is hopefully following up in a good way – it seems that way. I would say that coordination of airspace is a positive initiative from the EU. This will lead to shorter travel times, less delays and less fuel use. That is what this matter is about, and then we can take the EEA debate when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e909	The Government has requested the agreement of the Stortinget to the approval of the EEA Committee’s decision to include the act ‘a single European sky’ in the EEA Agreement. The main reason why the Government has submitted the cases to the Storting is that this will have administrative and economic consequences, as we have done in the proposition. The government has wished to inform the Storting about this matter in a more thorough way than is the case when reviewing cases in the EEA Committee in Stortinget. As we have done, this legislative package establishes a framework for the future development of key parts of European aviation, on which the Storting should be able to comment. In this way, I agree with those who would claim that many EEA matters under previous regimes have been dealt with badly, and the government party – perhaps especially me and the representative Langeland, who was up here – has at many times taken it up without the support of the Progress Party. The government has gone through all the pages of this package with other departments and relevant agencies. The legislative package does not relinquish sovereignty over Norwegian airspace. We talk about this issue of your relevant legislative texts, which are comprehensive and complicated. For the sake of the order, I stress that all decisions that apply to the control of Norwegian airspace are still to be taken by Norwegian authorities. For example, the question of dividing airspace into responsibilities – cross-border – and the question of assigning responsibility for operating air traffic services in such different airspace blocks is and will be decided by Norwegian authorities. As I said, the implementation of a single European sky in Norway results in some administrative and economic consequences that have been addressed in the proposition. At the same time, we believe that the legislative package provides the basis for improving the efficiency of the aviation sector in the future and ensures a high and harmonised level of security. It also provides a basis for close and comprehensive cooperation with neighbouring countries. Joining a single European sky gives us the opportunity to participate in a large technology development programme in this area, SESAR, as we have mentioned in the proposal. This government will come back to life. One element to which the Government has put particular emphasis in its assessment is that the current cross-subsidisation scheme between Avinor Airports – in this case the so-called tower service – can continue. This is unlikely to be important for the financing of such services at the regional airports in Norway. I am therefore surprised to note that the minority in the Committee, represented by the Progress Party, express their wish to have an adjusted form of cross-subsidisation and raise doubts about the claim that the current system can continue, at the same time as they wish in their alternative budget to organise Avinor without surplus. I remind you that the internal subsidies in Avinor in 2006 are expected to be around SEK 1.1 billion in order to hold Ulöname Airports throughout the country – from Haugesund and Molde to Kirkenes and Tromsø. When it comes to the practical implementation of the relevant Norwegian legislation, Avinor will be given the task of performing air traffic services to the extent that it does today. We suggest that such a reference to Avinor is formally limited to time, so that the scheme can be evaluated in the light of experience after a few years. Finally, some words about the task of performing what is called airport services. These are services that Avinor and the Defence today buy from the Meteorological Institute on the basis of an agreement with these agencies. The government will later decide whether it is advisable to point out the Meteorological Institute as a formal single provider of such services in Norway. As stated in the proposal, the Government believes that Norwegian interests are well cared for by the EEA Committee that has been submitted, and asks the Stortinget to agree to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e931	Even though it's getting late, I'm still going to take a line at the Council of State. I would like to remind you that the budget debate is coming next week. Then we'll probably have an opportunity to talk about Avinor. We have tried to take this matter for what it is, in terms of content and investigation, and point out that the conclusion on issues relating to sovereignty and the Constitutional paragraphs may have been a little superficial and little ‘serious’ addressed – all in all, a formulation we have actually adhered to. We have also noticed that in connection with the tower service it is referred to a letter that is not attached. We are a little surprised that, in particular, this Council of States, which should not least be a party to the publication of case documents, preferably also in Norwegian, in the context of the EEA Agreement, has not ensured that we have received it. Will it be like this in the future? Or can we expect that the Council of State will also ensure that there will be necessary documentation on such matters as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e942	The Council of State and the Government are otherwise concerned that we should have open and good processes. We are also concerned about handling rules, which we adhere to. We believe that when the Government submits a document showing a letter, there must be confidence in the Storting that a person refers it correctly, without having a copy of the letter. So I hope that the Storting has confidence in this council, that what was referred to in the proposition is consistent with the contents of the letter. I stick to what has our legislation in this area. In addition to that, I am busy having good and trusting processes between government and staging, not least in EEA matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e952	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1044]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e970	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e979	The matter is about financing the development of Fv. 472 to Utgårdskilen in the municipality of Hyler in Østfold, by extension of toll collection on rv. 108 by up to two and a half years. In 1988 the Storting gave its consent to toll collection on Rv. 108 to co-finance the development of continental connections with Kirkøy in the municipality of Håler. Recovery started in 1989. In 1993, agreement was given to move the boom from Asmaløy to Bukkholmen to ensure better earnings. The toll company's debt is expected to be paid down by the next turn of the year. As early as December 2004, Østfold County adopted a pre-project to assess development measures in Fv. 472 to the Courtyard guy in Hyler. At the same time, the County of Vegvesen asked to investigate the possibility of extending the toll collection on Bukkholmen in order to co-finance the measures. Work on the pilot project started in January 2005 and the report was available in August of that year. Among other things, identified the proportion of traffic through the toll station using the county road in the direction of the Utgårdskiln. This report was available in November 2005. Fv. 472 has a length of 5.9 km and is part of the main road network in the municipality of Håler. The road is narrow, and there are dwellings along the road. There is no cycle and walking path, although this road is a school road. Annual daily traffic varies from 600 vehicles at Utgårdskilen to approx. 2000 vehicle at the other end, at Bratte Hill. Heavy traffic represents 5 pst. However, planned increase in activity in the Port of Utgårdskalen fishing port will lead to traffic growth, mainly in heavy traffic. The measures envisaged are aimed at the improvement of a cross-sectional area, the construction of a pedestrian and cycle path and some minor improvements, and costing 26 million. kr. There is a approved regulatory plan for the cross-sectional improvements, while the route and cycle control plan is expected to be in place during 2006. Both the Municipality of Hyler and the County of Østfold have agreed to extend the toll collection on Rv. 108 up to two and a half years in order to co-finance the development measures. The decisions of the district council of Håler and Østfold county council are referred to in the staging proposition. The correction shall be carried out as far as possible at the same time as the toll collection, so that any borrowings become small. The rates today are 50 kroner for light vehicles and 100 kroner for heavy goods vehicles. The extension has been accompanied by flat rates of 20 kroner and 40 kroner respectively and the continuation of one-way collection and current discount schemes. The 2005 report on the traffic base showed that approx. 25 pst. of the traffic passing the toll station operates on parts of fv. 472 to Utgårdskilen. At the same time, traffic on the county road has helped to finance the mainland link with Kirkøy on Rv. 108 without having directly benefited from the tunnel. Norway has an obligation under the EEA Agreement to comply with the Eurovignette Directive applicable to heavy-duty vehicle charges higher than 12 tonnes on the main road network. The Ministry of Transport considers that this Directive does not preclude the implementation of the proposal in the proposal. Norway has previously received support from the European Commission for this type of tolling scheme. The improvement of the county road down to Utgårdskilen is important for the municipality of Håler and for Østfold, and must be seen as part of a step-by-step development of a coherent infrastructure network in the municipality of Håler. Landlocked regional fishing port is a regional development project which will benefit greatly from the proposed remedial action. The project has received state development funds and is a high priority regional development project in Eastfold. The county has committed itself to contributing $8 million. for development, broken down by 2007 and 2008, and the municipality of Håler by 2.5 million. in 2007. The 26-million-dollar financial envelope. NOK is divided by 15.5 million. DKK in tolls and 10.5 million. kr in local contributions. In addition, the municipality and the county have provided a guarantee for any borrowings in connection with the expansion. It is not provided for government contributions. Both the Directorate of Road and the Department recommend that the development and financing facility be approved, starting from 1 January 2007. It is a condition that the collection is terminated before the start of the proposed toll collection on rv. 108 New Kråker Island Connection in Fredrikstad, by July 2009 at the latest. It's 19 years and 9 months after the collection of this bomb started, and in St.meld. No 46 for 1990-91, amending the framework conditions for toll projects, opens up toll periods of 20 years and extends beyond this in special cases. The Committee itself has seen the situation in Utgårdskilen on a committee trip. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposed measures include: will improve both road safety and accessibility, and note that there is a local political connection to the financing facility. With this we propose that the Storting make such a decision: ‘The EFTA Surveillance Authority agrees that the toll company is allowed to collect tolls at the toll station of Rv 108 Bukkholmen for the partial financing of measures of Fv 472 to Utgårdskilen in accordance with the conditions of St.prp. [[2006-2007]] No 8 and Inn. [[2006-2007]] S No 58
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1024	The matter we are dealing with here today is, in my opinion, both special and in principle. The quay is Norway's largest fishing port east of Kristiansand. Several companies in the marine and maritime industries want to establish themselves in the area around Utgårdskilen. Already today companies in Utgårdskilen provide service to Norwegian fishermen from both sides of the Oslofjorden and from the Swedish side, primarily from Bohuslän. As well as the Sørøst Coast Plant as the Østfold County Municipality, the Utgårdskiln has given a high priority as a regional fishing port, and both state, county and municipality participate in the fissure layer to renovate the regional fishing port. This has regional and national interest. Before the construction of new berths for the fishing fleet and the establishment of new industrial areas along the eastern side of Utgårdskilen can take place, it is necessary to have a satisfactory road link with Utgårdskilen. On this basis, a package of measures with a framework of 25.5 million was also developed. kr, where the majority is financed by tolls. But is this reasonable? Let's look at the history. Already in the early 1990s, the road to Utgårdskilen was planned to be repaired, but the plans were stopped by the municipality. When Fjordfisk planned to expand its business in Utgårdskilen in 2000, the condition was that the county road was repaired – but nothing has happened. Already in 2005, there was a total of 14 heavier vehicles which were dwindled daily on the hairline road to Utgårdskilen, where trucks fill the whole roadway, and there is no guarantee for vulnerable road users at all. The management of fjord fish characterizes the road as a nightmare, unsuitable for heavy transport, and they are constantly afraid of accidents. So what do the responsible authorities do? The whaler municipality does not have money. Eastfold County Municipality says they don't have money. The coastal works, as mentioned earlier, are positive in the development of the regional port of fisheries, and state resources are granted to increase the activity in the port, but state contributions to the securing and repair of the road, which naturally will increase the traffic on an already hopeless road bill, we hear nothing about. There's in this situation some bright heads get an idea. The management of the tunnel company, which manages today's toll collection on Hyler, finds out that it takes a year and a half from the tunnel on Hyler has been paid down and the toll station is actually to be removed, and until the toll collection at the new Kråkerøybro starts. This gap seeks to exploit the management of the tunnel company and indicates that it will continue to create employment for the six-seven employees of the company. The management stresses that it is important for employees to clarify their destiny. The majority of the local government on Hyler accepts the proposal because they don't see any other possibilities. It also forms part of the proposal. In fact, the group leader of the Workers' Party says that he is an opponent of tolls – he thinks it is a herb, and complains that they are not getting money from the state. But then they go into the matter, against the voices of the Right Party and the Advance Party, knowing that it is the red-green parties that, together with the Christian People's Party, have made up the majority in the county, and for a number of years have failed to allocate money to correct this road section. In the case-law of both the municipality and the county, it is emphasised that the principle of usefulness will be a central issue, i.e.: that those paying will benefit from the investment and vice versa. We are talking here about a toll station on a highway, which is supposed to provide funding for a once- and-a-bike route on a connecting county road. Studies show that of those passing the toll station, who in a medieval way keep the municipality hermetically closed from the outside world, it is only 25 pst. using the county road of Utgårdskilen – i.e. over 75 pst. of the drivers passing the boom will not benefit from the measures on this route. In my opinion, the argument used to defend such a collection is quite sought. By considering all the different road projects that have been on Hyler since 1971 as a single package, it is believed that the extension can be defended. To accept such an argument means that toll stations set up never need to be removed as long as there is a piece of road that needs asphalting, or there is a need for a walk or cycle path or other traffic measures in the vicinity. This is not acceptable. In this context, it is also worth noting the sky-high administrative costs of between 50 and 60 p.p., which was also one of the reasons why the toll station that was at the Håler tunnel in its time had to be moved in order to increase its performance base. The inhabitants of the whales, who depend on passing the bomb daily, could previously pay 10 kroner. Now they're going to have to get out with an advance of NOK 3500 to get to this price. This is nothing but a modern highway robbery. I will therefore be allowed to raise the proposals of the Advance Party on the state financing of these 15.5 million. If the majority's position against presumption is adopted, I am convinced that this matter will be brought before ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1047	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1050	The case rapporteur has explained the matter in a good way, a matter which is not simply for us in the Right either. It'll be a balance of reasons and principles. It is difficult for the Right to see solid local and regional decisions here, including the promise of co-financing. Furthermore, whales are an island municipality without transit traffic, and the boom stands at the municipal border. It is not the first time that this type of action is part of the basis for user financing. In other types of package solutions, or bombing bases, which are, in fact, also the same, road safety measures are often included. But what has weighed most heavily in the Right balance is the very purpose of the remedial work, namely better conditions for fishing ports in Utgårdskilen. It is the largest fishing port east of Kristiansand, it has a large home fleet, and the port also serves as a regional port. Here are fishing receptions where shrimp catches from large parts of Inner Skagerrak are landed – a large part goes to domestic distribution, but also to exports. Thus, there is a high transport demand for raw materials, finished products, ice and boxes. There has also been the emergence of an active supplier service offer, and the site is in good development. There are also exciting plans for expansion. But it has always been assumed that something had to happen with the difficult and traffic-threatening road access to the port. Once upon a time, fishing catches must be landed near the sea, and often occur at fishing ports that lie outside what we may call a capillary network in a main network system. Nevertheless, it is important that we remove the bottlenecks and make fishing ports such as Utgårdskilen more accessible. In its alternative budget, the right has also proposed the development of two new fishing ports elsewhere in the country. We do that because we see 1 kr invested in port infrastructure, maybe many ten times again in the form of private investment and value creation – so here too. The Committee was able to see for itself the difficult conditions of access, but also the exciting opportunities for development when it was visiting there. So when the municipality and Østfold county council ask for our consent to this fissure layer, yes, then in the Right we will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1061	Some views also from the Christian People's Party on a matter which has already been well presented by the case-rapporteur: In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the local political consensus in the matter must weigh heavily, and we think it makes sense that the corrections are carried out as much as possible at the same time as the toll collection, so that the borrowings that may be necessary become as small as possible. In the vote, and in today's debate, the Progress Party has pointed to problematic aspects of what they call the'milking' of the drivers. In this context, I would like to point out the positive answer I received from the Council of State in the Questionnaire on Wednesday 22 November. There we agreed that it is time for a comprehensive review of the toll collection guidelines. The previous government announced in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004, National Transport Plan, that it will develop new analyses on infrastructure financing to detect unintended consequences. The Council of State informed in its reply in the Questionnaire that she has started working on such a review and that she will come back to Stortinget when it is available. The Christian People's Party is pleased because there are some principles and guidelines for toll collection that we push on and that may be mature for revision. I think we all agree that it is not necessary for some sections to be so expensive to pass for individuals and businesses that there will be an obstacle to the development of nutrition and housing – even if this is not the case in this case. This road leads to Utgårdskilen. I would therefore just like to take the opportunity to stress that it is important to continue the development of fishing ports in Utgårdskilen. This port has a central role for the fishermen in the Oslofjorden, and we record during the budgetary procedure that the Government has not prioritised this port, as the Christian People's Party would have wished. However, we have noticed that it is stated in the proposition that an increase in the share of heavy traffic is expected as the activity in the fishing port of Utgårdsklan increases. We hope that means that the port will be prioritised in the future, to the delight of the active users in the port, who we also had the pleasure of meeting when the committee was traveling in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1072	Corrected by fv. 472 to Utgårdskilen is important to the municipality of Håler. It is so important that both municipal and county politicians have decided to extend the toll collection of rv.108 by about two years. They will do this after the drivers on the whaler have been involved and financed the whaler tunnel for well and well 17 years. This local willingness is the basis of the Government's recommendation to approve the project. The project fives on several actions, e.g.: 472. The road is about 6 km long and is part of the main road network on Håler. Measures proposed will improve road safety and the emergence of the area. The first row is about fixing the intersection between rvs. 108 and Fv. 472 and construction of pedestrian and bicycle road connections. Today this is missing, despite the fact that children have to use this way to and from school. The regional fishing port yard is a high priority regional development project in Eastfold and will benefit greatly from the improvements in the proposal. The planned activity that is likely to lead to higher traffic growth in Fv. 472 than in general in Eastfold. This applies not least to heavy traffic. Of a total cost framework of 26 million. covers municipalities and counties almost half. 15.5 million. kr shall be financed by users over a maximum of two and a half years. The bombing station on Rv. 108 can be used for this purpose when the Whaler Tunnel is disbursed at the end of the year. The base tax should be lowered from 50 kroner to 20 kroner for a light car and from 100 kroner to 40 kroner for a heavy car. I know that not everyone who passes the bomb is running for fv. 472, but in the Ministry of Transport's assessment, the traffic on the county road on its side has contributed to financing the mainland connection to Kirkøy without having directly benefited from the tunnel. We think of this as part of a step-by-step expansion of a coherent name in the municipality of whaler. A minority in the Committee makes an alternative proposal for decisions in the Stortinget. The proposal is likely to be well received locally, but I would like to remind you that the state does not finance measures on the road, which this is about. The minority raises questions about EEA legislation. The Ministry of Transport believes, as pointed out, that the Eurovignett Directive does not prevent the proposal in the proposal. The Directive applies to heavy goods vehicles on the road network with the highest technical class. In this case, neither the road nor the rv is affected. 108 at the main road network. When it comes to matters with complaints about toll collection in Norway, these are still for management in ESA. I see no need to change the practice on the basis of a complaint as long as it is not taken into account. This government wants to reduce the distance costs for business and, of course, to facilitate the emergence of all permanent residents. With such a strong local commitment, it is important that the decision is put in place. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee has agreed in the Government's proposal on financing actions on e.g.: 472 to Utgårdskilen in Hyler municipality in Eastfold through extended toll collection on Rv. 108.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1092	We've noticed that the central government council is happy to promote toll propositions, and we've stopped wondering about it. We notice that this government is moving limits in terms of toll usage. This case is no exception. So here's new creative methods of collecting more tolls. Is there no limit to what this government will accept in terms of principles related to what it calls local initiative? Here, there is a bomb on a national road to finance measures on a country road. There is one limit that is being moved. Is there no benefit limitation of the Government? I am thinking, not of the EU and any decision relating to the EU system, but simply of a reasonable consideration. Here it's 25 pst., hardly, that's going to benefit from what's going to be collected by tolls on the highway. Are there no limits to costs? Over 8 million are to be used here. NOK 15,5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1101	This government is busy supporting local and regional initiatives. I have not come to the Stortinget with any toll project that has not been highlighted, initiated and agreed via local business representatives and local elected representatives and supported by regional elected representatives. I don't see it as my prime task to prevent road construction in the districts, or wherever it might be in this country. I see it as my task to provide infrastructure, primarily through the frameworks provided by the State to consult, and then by supporting the local and regional efforts that come from all over the country. I'm recording that they're part of it. I've said it before in this room, and I repeat it, that as long as it's within reasonable limits, I intend to support the initiatives taken locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1111	In many cases, the reason for introducing tolls from the red-green local lotteries has been a lack of state transfers and poor municipal and county economy. Today's government often shows that this has improved under the current regime. If it is the case that the Council of State considers that it is unnatural to make a State contribution to the improvement of this route in order to ensure the conditions of a primary industry, would it not be more natural then to reject the proposal for extended toll collection on such a spin-off basis and to refer to the improvement of the local economy, rather than possibly to break international binding agreements and once again to overturn the costs on the driving lists?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1123	I would like to reiterate that this is a matter of local initiatives from local peoples and not least from local businesses. It is important to support this type of action. This is a country road, and we know that the county would like to take on more responsibility for the roads. On Friday we will see if more of the area will be covered by a new administrative reform. But it is at least so that this road is filled with its responsibility. It is the municipality and the county that have initiated part-financing of the road. They do it in a great deal of understanding with the business community around the world to solve a problem. I consider my role here to be in a community with local and regional government and industry in order to improve the conditions of commercial transport, and not least for local residents and young people, who have a safer schooling path. It's a win-win project as a desired local one, and so I promote the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1130	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1044]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1138	The size should now be increased in cases 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e1146	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Højlund, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 3, from Morten Høglund on behalf of the Progress Party In the course of the debate, the proposals have been converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e2892	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e4018	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's: Proposal No 1, tabled by Mr T. Nesvik on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, the Christian People's Party and the Left. 2, by Mr Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and of the Right-wing motion for a resolution No. 3, from Inge Wage on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 4–6, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 7-13, 15 and 16, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 17-21, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 22, from Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 14 not produced First, there will be a vote on proposal No. Twenty-two from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e6536	The proposals are then put to the vote. 17-21 from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e9056	We shall then vote against the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 9 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the Youth Campaign ‘Relax now’ receives 2.5 million. EUR so that the campaign can continue in 2007 at the same level as in 2006.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e9123	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4–6, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e9153	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3 from the Right, Christian Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to re-examine the need for changes in the allocation of basic appropriations to regional health enterprises in the State budget for 2008 in order to ensure a more equivalent health provision across the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e9168	So let's go to proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. This proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government merge Health East and Health South in 2007 in order to ensure better coordination of resources in these regions and thus better provision for patients.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for a review of the emergency response based on the National Audit Office’s report and the transfer of responsibilities to regional health companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e11655	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting of these Roman numerals. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against. The President also assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the position subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e11681	The whole committee is behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e11718	It is the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left that are behind the setting of these Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e11736	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government to clarify the implications of the incorporation into the EEA Agreement of the Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the single European sky.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06-2.ana.ud2018e11762	During the debate, Mr Gåsvatn presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The project County Road 472 Utgårdskilen in the municipality of Håler in Østfold is carried out with a State funding share of 15,5 million. krones. The Government asks the Government to ensure that the expansion takes place as soon as possible.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
