ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e42	Honourable co-representatives! Former guttering representatives Knut Haus and Odd With have resigned at death. Former representative of the Christian People's Party Knut Haus died on 23 June this year, 91 years old. Knut Haus represented Rogaland Christian People's Party on the Stortinget for twelve years, from 1973 to 1985. From 1961 to 1973 he was the first alternate and met on a number of occasions. Knut Haus was born on June 8, 1915 in Gripstad, West Agder. He was a civil agronomist and had his professional life in the agricultural sector. He was, among other things, employed in various positions in the State Seed Control and was the manager of the Rogaland Tribal Cemetery from 1953 until he was elected to the Stortinget in 1973. Knut Haus was a member of the Municipality of Klepp from 1959 to 1973 and the Vice-President from 1971 to 1973. From 1964 to 1969 he was also the leader of the Rogaland Christian People's Party. He was active in church and community life, among others. as a member and chairman of the Klepp Congregation Council. In all his years at Stortinget Knut Haus sat in the Agriculture Committee. In the last four years he was also the head of the committee. Of major issues in the Committee on Agriculture these years may include, inter alia: mention is made of the agricultural notification resulting from the so-called equalisation decision on the incomes of farmers, the concession law and agricultural policy guidelines. The marriage work was a heart issue for Knut Haus, and he actively participated in this work even after he retired. Knut Haus was the older man of the Storting when he finished 70 years old in 1985. At the same time, he was one of the largest representatives of Stortinget. In winter he was an active skier. Often he had been a ski trip to Kikut in Nordmarka before the staging meeting started in the morning. In his time, the Agriculture Committee at Stortinget also won prizes for the best represented committees in Stortingets Holmenkollrenn. During the summer season, he seized the bike as soon as the opportunity came, and he took part in the big test of strength from Trondheim to Oslo. Knut Haus, through a long and rich life, made a great effort for society. He was a quiet person, but he knew what he wanted, and he was on to get a pass on the things he believed in. He had a broad field of interest and clear views on a number of questions. As committee leader, he had the flexibility needed to achieve common solutions. We who worked with Knut Haus in Stortinget remember him as a knowledgeable and capable politician. He was a co-player we really appreciated. Former mayor and vice president of Odelstinget Odd With died on 19 July, 85 years old. He represented the Nordland Christian People's Party on the Stortinget from 1973 to 1985. Odd With was born in Kjelvik, Finland on 16 May 1921. It was in North Norway that he spent his childhood and youth and also much of his working life. In 1947 he became Cand.jur. and then had a number of posts in the public administration, among others. as county councillor, county councillor, adviser and financial adviser. After finishing his career, he began as a county manager in Northern Ireland, a position he had until he turned 70. In its 12 years at Stortinget, Odd With was a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee, the Social Committee and the Consumer and Administrative Committee. He was the head of the Social Committee from 1977 to 1981. He worked hard on the issues and had a strong commitment to many of the issues that were dealt with in the Storting at this time. These include rural policy, alcohol legislation, the protection of unborn life, health and family policies. From 1981 to 1985 he was vice-president of the Odelstinget and a member of the Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council from 1983 to 1985. Odd With was an active person throughout his adult life. He was a warm - hearted Christian with a number of trusts in various nongovernmental organizations, among others. in the Norwegian Missionary Company and KFUK/KFUM. He was a member and head of the council several places in the country, and in retirement also head of the church council in Bærum. Odd With also had a strong social commitment. He became the father of modern social legislation in Norway when he headed the Social Reform Committee from 1969 to 1972. He had a number of jobs in the Christian People's Party locally and centrally, both before and after he sat on the Stortinget. From 1969 to 1973 he was a member of the central government, and in all his years at Stortinget he was a member of the national government of the party and of the group board. Odd With, through a long and rich life, made a great effort for society. He was alive occupied with the whole spectrum of political matters and was an active debater to whom it was listened. He was knowledgeable and constructive and had good drafting skills. He was quick to think with good and striking subtle lines and a contagious mood. There were often good stories and laughs around the table in the biggest restaurant where he sat. We remember in gratitude Knut Haus and Odd With and shine peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e86	The called alternate of the Busherud County, Beate Heieren Hundhammer, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e94	I have the great honour to promote a representative proposal from Lars Sponheim and myself on the review of privacy in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e99	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e113	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e129	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 234]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e145	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e156	This presents the position of the Business Committee on State ownership of BaneTele AS, cf. St. pp. No 74 for 2005-2006. The commercial basis for BaneTele’s activities is the control of the fibre optic backbone network, which mainly follows the network and energy companies’ infrastructure through large parts of Norway. BaneTele has not had enough economic results in recent years. The company must be strengthened both financially and on the market. During 2005, the Board of Directors of BaneTele launched a process to clarify possible new business opportunities for cooperation. The work was continued by the owner in the spring of 2006. Following negotiations with several actors, the Ministry of Industry and Trade concluded that enhanced industrial and commercial cooperation with the Bredband Alliance AS best was in line with the country’s own and industrial objectives for BaneTele. The Committee is divided into views on both the process and the outcome of the negotiations. The Committee's recommendation is therefore promoted on behalf of the members of the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, as referred to in the vote. I expect the minority itself to explain their views and suggestions in the matter. The cooperation agreement between BaneTele and the Broadband Alliance ensures a very good industrial solution and a new market position for New BaneTele. At the same time, the merged company is given significant increases in equity, which means that its loans to BaneTele will also be redeemed. The coordination of BaneTele's core network and the lines of the Broadband Alliance means that Telenor can have real and open competition in the infrastructure market for the first time, thereby at the same time opening up greater competition in the service market. The agreement is important because it guarantees public and national ownership of telecommunications infrastructure. The solution will drive the regional development of broadband and thus provide a competitive offer to the districts. The agreement is also innovative because it ensures the development of open service neutral core networks in Norway. In more and more countries, open and service-neutral networks reduce the need for parallel, expensive infrastructure. This contributes to price reductions in services and improved competitiveness for network-dependent businesses. The benefits of open networks are not least important in Norway, which is a costly country to expand. Such core networks are now being developed in Norway, both in districts and in central districts. Another issue that is not so simple is that open and service-neutral access networks are a deficiency in many countries, including Norway. Although economic muscles in the builders are important, this in itself has not solved the problem. According to a 2005 Teleplan report, new access networks can cost up to DKK 30–50 billion. In the nomination of the 2002-2003 State Budget of the Committee on Transport, the current Government Parties and the Progress Party noted that: «users have made a decisive contribution to network development, through different types of funding for routes, access networks and equipment in their residential areas, businesses, etc., which have led users to have legitimate ownership rights to do so». Interaction and cooperation with existing, independent networks, funded and owned by users — what is also called private echo networks — in housing, businesses and institutions can reduce the need for large investment on the access side of new BaneTele. User organisations are working on enhanced user involvement arrangements for the further financing of these local networks. It will relieve the investment pressures of the developers and accelerate their deployment. It is important to support this. by following the ecosystem law for interactions between public and private ecosystems, which increases exploitation and stimulates users to contribute. Increased access to advanced, open infrastructure increases business opportunities, including local ones, to develop new competitive products and services. Measures for the increased use and further development of such networks will also help to strengthen the business base of BaneTele as a link between national, regional and local networks. The cooperation between the Broadband Alliance and BaneTele is important. It's forward-looking, and it's a right solution for BaneTele. It ensures public ownership, it ensures better competition in the telecoms market, and it ensures, in particular, that consumers and businesses are given the opportunity and access to cheaper services I also want to stress that the BaneTele and the Broadband Alliance are very close together as companies. The owners of the broadband alliance work long-term, have extensive experience and competence in expanding vital infrastructure also in telecommunications, and they do not least have a strong willingness to invest. So the setting is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e196	This case concerns the future ownership structure of BaneTele. In order to meet the Stortinget’s desire for a strong and effective BaneTele, there has been a long time needed to strengthen the company. It's now taking care of the government. The government has negotiated an agreement that ensures the company a good industrial solution, which has been required for a long time. This isn't a hall that some have created as, but a partnership that means that the Breiband Alliance is adding 625 million. kr in cash in a proper issue, against the fact that the Breiband Alliance receives a 50 pst title. in the new company. This will provide the company with a good financial platform, which provides good opportunities to develop BaneTele as a nationwide and competitive broadband company. Right has gone high on the path in this case. According to Today's Economy, the representative Børge Burnde was given «coffee in the wretched throat» when he read earlier this year about his plans for BaneTele and about the partnership with the Breiband Alliance. To that I would say that fortunately we are facing a completely different situation now than we would if the previous government had got what she wanted. At that time, BaneTele, in the direction of his former Minister of Economic Affairs, Ansgar Gabrielsen, was added. He had so far been Minister of Industry when he announced that BaneTele would be sold. For the Workers' Party, BaneTele is an important company. It is today the only nationwide option we have for Telenor. I am therefore pleased that the Government and the Minister of Industry have come up with a solution that will enable the company to be a strong nation-wide competitor to Telenor. There are four issues that have been important for the Workers' Party in this context, namely ensuring a good economic foundation for BaneTele, securing public ownership, contributing to the coordination of broadband infrastructure and contributing to a long-term solution. The agreements that have now been concluded take good care of all these matters. BaneTele can now spend several years with security around the ownership relationship behind it. The company has long been in a situation where there is a need for increased volume, i.e. more customers, in order to obtain a satisfactory ignition. However, the company has not had the market position to provide an adequate customer base. The industrial partner has now been found through an open process and real negotiations. The department has chosen the solution they think is best, and that meets the targets we have for BaneTele. A good industrial and robust financial solution has been in focus. There are some who have criticised the government party for emphasising that the public should retain a controlling ownership of the company. But Stortinget's treatment of the Breiband message in the previous period also showed that there are different positions between the bourgeois parties and the government parties when it comes to ownership of the company. The government has been very clear that public ownership of BaneTele is important. It is even stated in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘The government will help BaneTele AS become a publicly controlled company contributing to broadband structures throughout Norway’.» Right and others will have to scream, but in my opinion it must be perfectly legitimate for us to want the public to be heavy on the owner's side of this company, because this company is responsible for much of the electronic infrastructure in our country, and that is very important. I am therefore very satisfied with the industrial partner that BaneTele now gets, and which I think is the best partner the company could get. This also means that the company remains in public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e225	The development of the telecommunications market is, of course, one of the most important factors in facilitating the deployment of broadband and regional telecommunications services. It is then important to have real competition in the telecommunications market. In particular, it is important to strengthen competition in the infrastructure market, where Telenor has a dominant position. Telenor has a dominant position in many other areas, so competition is important. This government is not exactly known for strengthening competition, nor is it known for BaneTele. It's a strange process that's been going on with the sale of BaneTele, or issue, which it really is. The process is strange because there have been several stakeholders to the company, but the conclusion has been drawn almost as far as where to go, long before the result was clear. It becomes quite strange when the Council of State, Eriksen, despite its own advisers, its own board of directors, the employees and other expertise that come up with views on this, and chooses a partner. It also becomes quite strange when two of the others who were interested in BaneTele had higher bids and the government still chooses the lowest bid. In fact, the Bredband Alliance is given the opportunity to adjust its bid gradually, but it testifies more about yields than anything else. The other two didn't get that opportunity. It must feel quite strange to the Government when the board chooses to resign because of the way the Government has dealt with this matter. It is clear that there have been things in the closed rooms, and the result is seen later on. You can also ask the question whether this is how the director of the Bredband Alliance, Tormod Hermansen, is rewarded for long and faithful service in the Workers' Party since he gets this case through. The whole process has been strange, and I think it's strange that the government has chosen to push it through in the Storting. I would therefore like to address our proposal. We believe the right thing would be to do as one has done in a number of other companies, namely to list and partially privatise the company. At that time, the state still has good control over the company, it brings in professional partners who want to see long-term and operate on a commercial basis, and you also get the best actors to be involved. You've done it with Statoil, Telenor and a number of other companies, so you should also take the time to do it here. In this case, there is a clear difference between a socialist government and a bourgeois alternative. Here's a big dividing line for where to go. Conditions for increased official control are being set up with some of the most important things in the telecommunications market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e238	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e241	The process of closing down the state's ownership in BaneTele shows how complicated it is to pursue a serious and credible industrial policy when ideological motives take over common sense, professional judgement and business, employees and consumers. It is by no means certain that the solution adopted by the majority today, with a merger between BaneTele and the Broadband Alliance, is a poor solution for the BaneTele or broadband market in Norway. But the sales process, the game, the relationships between the principals of the Broadband Alliance and the party friends of the Government, and the reasons given for the choice of the merger partner, make it difficult to decide on the matter on an objectively sound basis. So the core of the BaneTele business is the fibre optic network that follows the network and the energy companies' infrastructure in Norway. The idea was to create an alternative network for Telenor, and BaneTele is therefore the only nationwide option for Telenor in terms of the transport of heavy data and telecommunications. This means that the choice of future solutions for BaneTele is important in order to create better competition for telecommunications services in Norway. And better competition in telecommunications services is important both for businesses and consumers, who increasingly demand high-capacity transmission. The choice of solution is also crucial for the industrial development of the BaneTele business, for the future of the employees and for the values of the country owned by the company. When the State is to change its ownership of state-owned enterprises or make major strategic approaches that a merger actually is, it is natural and important to consult with government, management and employees. The State has the last words as owner, but management and board have the relevant competence on such issues. It is in any case important for an owner, private or public, to listen to what the company and its employees think on strategic issues. That's why it was alarming to have the sales process approximated the breakdown in today's business on 20 May this year. There it appeared that Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen, despite advisers, a unanimous board and BaneTele's employees to sell to the Bredband Alliance led by the party trap Tormod Hermansen, starting with a bid of 200 million. kr lower than the best competitive bid. A centrally located source describes the entire sales process as an act. The fact is, the government went to a bidder with a significantly lower bid, and the entire board of BaneTele went off in protest. The bidder had at the top of the whole close political relationship with the Government. We don't deserve to have such notions in connection with the exercise of state ownership. The board of directors wrote in a letter dated 18 May that the solution chosen would result in major organisational changes and the risk of several key individuals resigning. The Management Board considers that there are alternatives that are significantly better than those chosen by the Department. The board focuses on a very central industrial aspect, namely whether the merger partner in question can actually offer increased volume in the BaneTele network. Here the board believes there is reason to raise doubts about the estimates presented by the Broadband Alliance and that there are significantly better industrial alternatives. In the rationale for the choice of merger with the Broadband Alliance, the Government places the decisive emphasis on the continued possession of 50 pst by the State. by the merged company. This implies that there are different considerations to the broadband market, the value of the shares and the development of the company that comes first. This makes it very difficult to determine whether the merger is actually for the benefit of business, users and the company. There can always be reason to look at the need for state ownership, especially in enterprises where the country owns 100 pst. from before. The right has a relatively pragmatic relationship to this issue and is committed to finding good solutions for enterprises where the country owns. In our large-scale election programme, we stress that there will still be a basis for maintaining a government interest in enterprises where the country is already in an ownership position in important sectors, including: is referred to as ‘trafficking’. But state ownership is not an independent goal in itself. The purpose of state ownership must be to ensure head office, national competence and good business environment. In this case, there is a marked absence of sustainable reasons why it is so important that the state is still the owner of BaneTele, and what the state can actually contribute as owner. We are then left with a rather unyielding sales process, a strong ideological desire from the Government on state ownership and strong protests from many teams. This means that the Right is not satisfied with the choice of solution and its justification, and we will therefore vote against the Government's proposal. I would also like to address the proposal in the vote where the Government is asked to come back to Stortinget with a new solution for BaneTele, where industrial and market considerations are leading the process. This issue can also be seen in a wider context related to ownership policy in Norway. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has announced a much more active state ownership. Today, one year later, it is still completely blue what lies in ‘more active’. The ownership message has been postponed several times. Today's Business Today we can read that the government parties cannot even agree when the ownership message is to be submitted. Red-green wholesalers have produced a series of issues related to how the State should react to companies in which the State is a shareholder. There have also been many outlays related to enterprises in which depositors want the country to buy up, both in Norway and abroad. Ownership policy has in reality been a major venue for public debate and conflict between large-scale representatives and other related government parties on issues relating to large and important enterprises in Norway. On the other hand, it is a fact that the Government has so far carried out only three business-owned transactions. The first was the completion of listing and sales on the farm Cermaq. It was a very sensible privatisation and entirely in line with the policy of the previous government. The second transaction was the purchase of 5 pst. of the shares in Nammo through the exercise of a right of pre-emption. This purchase serves the country's financial interests as a shareholder and is politically completely unproblematic. That's why I understand that former Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen and the Government were busy showing the political direction when the trip came to reduce the state's ownership interests in BaneTele. Equally, it is only to note that the merger between BaneTele and the Bredband Alliance implies that the State halves its ownership of BaneTele. In total, the red-green government has clearly reduced the country’s ownership of business after the election. We also note with great wonder that the active state ownership of Statkraft means getting a dividend share of 98 p.m., totally contrary to the proposals and promises made by two government parties. On the other hand, we were quite positively surprised when Prime Minister Stoltenberg in the Christmas interview last year in Today's Business rejected the fact that it is relevant to intervene against relocations in companies where the state is wholly or partly owned. Thus, it is only to note that there is little news from the Government regarding the theme of state ownership so far, except that there is a relatively strong chaos in public space. The problem with the Government is that the state is a major and important owner in Norwegian business. Ownership is based on a clear division of roles, and the state follows the rules of business. In the opposition, the red-green parties have protested against this form of ownership and demanded use of power through ownership to force the companies to do things that the companies don't think are right. The problem then becomes that such a change in ownership policy in Norway will actually reduce the country’s legitimacy as owner of Norwegian business, both in relation to the governing bodies of the companies and in relation to other shareholders. Therefore, such an active state-owned policy, as I understand some red-green representatives perceive it, could actually lead to a reduction in the legitimacy of the state as owner of Norwegian business. I actually don't think the red-green parties want that. I think that's also why we see very little new about state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e281	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e284	There's been a lot of turmoil around BaneTele. Most of this unrest has been linked to the lack of industrial clarification in the previous period, for which the previous government was responsible. It's clear that BaneTele needed more capital. But capital itself is not enough to get into a viable business. I am therefore pleased that the Government has come up with an industrial solution that ensures the company's future. While the previous government was unable to take the necessary steps to ensure this, the government has negotiated a solution that is good for the company as well as ensuring the values of the state. The state keeps 50 pst. of the ownership of the company. Through the Broadband Alliance, BaneTele will have access to extended networks, customer access, competence and industrial owners. It is important for SV that infrastructure is in public ownership. As mentioned earlier by a representative of the Workers' Party, the Soria Moria Declaration states that we should: ‘help BaneTele AS become a publicly controlled company contributing to broadband structures throughout Norway’. That's why we're glad that finally there was a solution where public ownership is respected. With this solution, we have reason to believe that we will combine BaneTele's good technical competence with broadband alliance market access. SV recommends that Stortinget follow the advice of the Business Committee. Finally, I just want to add that I am happy that we see the difference between a red-green government and a bourgeois alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e298	The Christian People's Party appreciates that the government party made sure that the treatment of this matter was postponed over the summer. It has allowed us to have a completely different and more defensive procedure both in committee and in general than would have been the case if the case had been drugged before the summer. The matter today can be summed up in a few words: good thoughts, but weak implementation. The good ideas are linked to the need to find a strategic partner for BaneTele. It hasn't been too bad. The company needs both a financial and a market strength to be able to meet the goals that the Size has previously seen for BaneTele's role. These paintings have not been unsavory. The only thing is to be a real competitor of Telenor in broadband development. The second is to ensure a supply of content-neutral broadband across the country. The only premise that has been set for the ownership structure itself by Stortinget has been to secure BaneTele's best-possible access to a national network structure in order to deliver end-to-end solutions for broadband capacity. The main problem with the solution to which the government has provided is the nagging feeling that the choice of strategic parties has been made on the basis of a criterion to which the Storting actually does not have a position, that the state has the power to hold 50 pst. ownership. In order for such a criterion to be taken into account as a whole, there are some provisions that must be in place: either state multi-lingual ownership would be a necessary premise to ensure that the measures mentioned were achieved, or all potential buyers would have to provide the same level of protection of target achievement and offer the same price to the venturer in BaneTele, so that the Government could then focus on other matters. We note that the Government is not in a position to make convincing arguments either that state multi-lingual ownership is entirely necessary to secure the achievement of goals, or that the provision of the three relevant buyers was identically assessed on the basis of the industrial and market additional competence they could provide a partnership with BaneTele and from the offer price of axes in the company. The former board of BaneTele clearly meant that the different buyers could not be sidetracked when it came to bringing together BaneTele's industrial impact forces and the buyer in question. When it comes to price, we note that the various stakeholders have been subjected to different treatment in the process. There is no risk that the price would be worse if another provider had been selected. But after all, the government has said no to a better price supply than what is now leading. The Christian People's Party will not automatically reject the fact that a 50 pst state ownership share. can ensure better achievement of objectives, and in that case assessed in particular against the objectives explicitly set by the Storting. Hence, the Christian People's Party today will not ask the Government to come back to Stortinget with a new process for the sale of BaneTele axes where state ownership should not be a premise. But I think it would have been a much better process if the Government first argued explicitly for this to the Storting, and possibly afterwards it introduced a non-discriminatory sales process if a multiple in Stortingen agreed to the arguments. As it now appears, it seems that a purely ideologically motivated objective of direct state control has been the most burdensome. We thought it was a little unyielding and little professional. The Broadband Alliance is an excellent activity with competence and with solid owners who have strategic interests in infrastructure. The Christian People's Party has no basis for establishing that the Government, with its choice, has made the Storting its goals for BaneTele's future more difficult to achieve. We are left with major questions: would competition in the broadband market and the objective of a national player in the development of broadband alongside Telenor be better served by another choice of partners? Could the country achieve a higher price for axans without going beyond the company’s industrial strength and national broadband coverage targets? Is the requirement of at least 50 pst. State ownership simply as a result of socialist control? The answer is, we don't know. A process that turns into such a response, we cannot accept. That is why we are also going to vote against the Government's proposal for an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e320	The case of the sale of BaneTele shows that there is a big difference between the previous government and the current government – a clear difference. The government of the Left was concerned with real competition, openness and settlement with the old culture in which important decisions were made in corporate Norway and in enclosed spaces. Now we're back to the past. This case is an example of the fact that competition policy almost seems to be liquidated for all practical purposes. Decisions are taken, not because of, but despite what is best for businesses and jobs. The left is concerned with competition for broadband services in the Norwegian market. Today, for all practical purposes, this is not the case. Telenor has no real competition in the provision of broadband services that are nationwide. This was precisely the background to the adoption by the previous government of a capital injection of 120 million. kr to BaneTele, and that a sales authorisation was granted. Our wish was a financially strengthened BaneTele as a suitable partner for businesses that would challenge Telenor's exclusive fields of nationwide broadband, not a BaneTele that would be sold at cheap sales, only the state gained the most influence possible. It is sad to conclude from this point of view that the sales process carried out by the Government took place in a mildly unprofessional manner. It has been evident that the Government has given priority to the ownership constellations before consumer considerations and industrial considerations in its decision. There can be no other reason why the Broadband Alliance was chosen. This is also underlined in a letter to the Business Committee dated 9 October 2006, which states that the Bredband Alliance was preferred because it was then possible to retain a continued state ownership of more than 50 pst. It's kind of amazing that you think you get a better competition by letting a company where the state owns over 50 pst, compete with another company, where the state owns more than 50 pst. Moreover, the former Council of State Odd Eriksen has, through the proceedings, overrun its own advisers, disregarded the recommendations of the current Board of Directors and opted for a solution that is in no way proved to be the most industrially best for the future of the company. Just that can hardly be charged to the new Council of State, but there is good reason to believe that the former representative Dag Terje Andersen would have secured the majority of the government's handling of the matter if the change of state council had not taken place. Consumer considerations may hardly have been of importance either by the new or by the old Council of State. It is probably almost an extraordinary event that the government through the sales process got to a kind of reverse Kindere Egg, three negative things at once: 1st@item: inlistbox The sales process resulted in the entire board going off in protest.2. The solution was not supported by the BaneTele 3. The government chose to give exclusivity to the bidder with the lowest bid – a bid of 200 million. kr below the maximum. For the Left, it is clear that a very far-reaching procedure has been carried out in this area, whereby the interests of competition, consumers and employees have been set aside. That is why we believe it is absolutely necessary for the Government to make new rounds in order to clarify what is the best solution for the company and for the users of broadband solutions, because that is what this is primarily about. The solution chosen will not significantly increase traffic in the network as other partners would have chosen, and the Government seems to have placed greater emphasis on an ideological desire for state ownership than on the quality of the solution for the BaneTele and broadband market. Nor has the government been able to explain in any way the benefits that society will derive from public ownership of BaneTele, whether such possible social benefits can be realised in ways other than by favouring one buyer over the others in the sales process itself. Against this background, the Left goes against the Government's proposal to sell BaneTele to the Broadband Alliance, and together with the Right, we ask the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a good industrial solution for sales in and partnership for BaneTele without emphasising state ownership as a criterion in choosing a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e351	I note that the majority of the Industry Committee supports the Government's proposal to reduce the state's ownership of BaneTele to 50 pst. and to enter into an agreement with the Broadband Alliance on a long-term shared ownership of the company. I'm glad. The agreement implies that the Broadband Alliance will provide BaneTele 625 million. kr in cash in an increase in capital, against the fact that the Broadband Alliance receives a 50 pst holding. in the new company. The solution represents a valuable interaction between different network owners, with a long-term business perspective. During the review of the broadband communication in the spring of 2004, the role of BaneTele in the development of the broadband market in Norway was clearly highlighted. These leaders have been central to the government’s management of the state’s ownership of the company. BaneTele is the only nationwide option for Telenor for the transport of heavy data and telecommunications. BaneTele infrastructure is sought after and the company has good technical competence. However, BaneTele has a challenging market situation. There are significant costs associated with operating the comprehensive network. BaneTele alone lacks the market position to achieve sufficient growth in traffic volume to bear these costs. BaneTele also needs to invest a lot in order to meet customers’ needs for good connectivity between transport networks and access networks. These elements are essential to become a real competitor of Telenor. In the spring of 2005, Stortinget decided to add 120 million to the company. kr in new share capital. It was then pointed out that such an increase in capital would not be sufficient for BaneTele to achieve all the objectives set by the Stortinget for the company. The government suggests in St.prp. No 74 for 2005-2006 that the State’s holding in BaneTele is reduced to 50 p.m. and that agreement is reached with the Bredband Alliance on a long-term shared ownership of the company. Cooperation with the Broadband Alliance gives BaneTele a financial platform for further investment that the company has not yet had. In addition, the solution involves the coordination of BaneTele's significant core network with local distribution and access networks in important parts of the country. With this solution, BaneTele can better meet the needs of its customers in a nationwide infrastructure that is open to all. The ministry has had discussions with others to find a forward-looking industrial solution for BaneTele. In these discussions, which have also been concerned with valuations and industrial solutions, the State has placed considerable emphasis on achieving a high level of State ownership. Despite the fact that the company has worn out financially, the process shows that there are significant economic values in BaneTele. My assessment is that the country should continue to ensure, and participate in, the value development of the company. Based on an overall assessment, the Bredband Alliance became the most interesting option. The core of the Broadband Alliance strategy is to provide a broad portfolio of services across a high-capacity broadband network with District Norway as its main field of activity. The Broadband Alliance–BaneTele combination will represent a powerful national and long-term alternative in the Norwegian broadband market. Under the agreement, the State has secured a long-term holding of 50 pst. or more in BaneTele. By virtue of that ownership interest and specific provisions of a shareholder agreement, the State may influence the strategic choices of the company so that they are consistent with the objectives of the State. The value obtained in the transaction is very good for the state and sets a value on today's BaneTele that is above what was outlined by other relevant partners. The agreement implies that BaneTele’s loan to the State will be redeemed. The state will no longer have the double role of owner and lender in BaneTele. It is good for BaneTele that Stortinget has dealt with this matter so positively. I thank you for that. A decision by the majority of the Industry Committee will provide an industrial solution for BaneTele which is also robust in a demanding market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e383	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e386	I would first like to congratulate the Council of State, which has its first case in the Chamber today. Today there is no real competition in the telecommunications market. At the same time, several speakers from the government parties have shown in their speeches that this is a fulfillment of the Soria Moria declaration. The Soria Moria declaration is, in my view, a pike of party politics. So when the government has chosen to do what it does now, they have, after all, their own advisers, they have, after all, a unanimous government, which has left, they have, despite the employees, and they have ignored a number of expert councils that have come. Then the question is, is it the most important thing to comply with the Soria Moria Declaration, or is it the most important thing to get a healthy, good, modern and forward-looking competition in the telecommunications market, for the most part?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e395	It is true that the Soria Moria Declaration is a collection of political objectives. It should be a political document. There is no contradiction between that and achieving the objectives asked by the representative of Korsberg. We have chosen a solution that will ensure that one with the new merged company comes out further into the value chain than one would have done if one had chosen a solution where one only sold the core network that BaneTele has today, at the highest price possible. In addition to a good financial result, in addition to long-term sustainability and in addition to the 50 pst state holding, which gives us the ability to influence and manage important infrastructure in Norway, we have chosen the solution that gives Telenor – the second competitor – the longest possible competition in the network. That is why this is also a very good solution for competition and for the users of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e402	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on the appointment. My question goes on the sales process itself. It is obvious that non-discrimination and seriousness are quite important when entering the market and finding a solution through a bidding process. It has a little to do with the confidence of the state as a neat player in business. So in this case, the government has entered into exclusive negotiations with a bidder of 200 million. kr under competing bids, and in a very strange way, the price of this offer increases by 200 million. kr, so that it matches the bids of the other bidders. This makes the sales process look like a kind of acting game in which the other two actors actually become statists. At the top of it all, the board has withdrawn, the employees were opposed, and we know the close relationship between the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Broadband Alliance and the Government. My question is, was it at any time relevant to choose other parties to the merger than the Broadband Alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e413	The answer to that is that early in the process it was open which option would be chosen. It is not true that someone has been treated exclusively. All stakeholders have repeatedly been given the opportunity to come up with alternatives linked to our goals for how we want to continue BaneTele. When it was clarified who, in our opinion, would provide the best industrial solution, who would make sure that the state could still have significant ownership, who would put the emphasis on long-term industrial development and getting closer to the customers, whom we were concerned about, it was finalized with one of the candidates. It's a completely normal process, which has led to a company where we've put an equity of 340 million. kr, to which the same analysts to which reference has been made have estimated the value above 500 mill. So it's going to be $625 million. kr. How it can be produced as a bad economic craft by the Government, I cannot understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e420	I also join the congratulations and look forward to constructive cooperation with the new Council of State. There are two issues that are completely clear in this matter. First, at an early stage in the process, it was obvious that the Breiband Alliance had a clear lower price offer than the other two. Secondly, the real decisive moment in this matter is the Government's demand for at least 50 pst. ownership. So my two questions are: first, what kind of real benefits is 50 pst? ownership compare to 34 pst.? Then I'm not thinking about prestige, I'm thinking about real benefits. The second question is, how many millions of dollars does the government have to sacrifice to be the largest owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e434	It is clear that owning 50 pst., in addition to the formulations on the possibility of increasing ownership if concrete objectives are not achieved over a certain period, provides an opportunity to guarantee that this company in which the State is a partner will contribute to the development of the broadband offer across the country. The genius of this solution is that the partner we've chosen has very good regional networks, which we're combining with BaneTele's good starting point. It is not possible to say what one could get if the State, for example. had pulled all the way out. But it's true, as I said before, that the valuations were above 500 million in advance. kr. The agreement reached amounts to 625 million. kr, with the State as 50 pst. owner and a good industrial solution. We believe that it provides the new company with a very good financial basis for its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e445	The story of BaneTele is also the story of the industrial policy of the previous government, which is the counterpart of an active industrial policy. As you can see, BaneTele is a very brilliant example of commercial policy inaction and privatisation. And that's an example of the opposite. If the voters had allowed the Bondevik government to continue, BaneTele would have been sold for the longest time on cheap sales to a private operator with nose for large profits. The alarming thing is that the bourgeois parties have learned nothing and that they are still stuck in a policy in which public values are to be disposed of almost at all costs. That's why BaneTele was spoiled. Despite persistent attempts by the then board of directors to create an adequate economic foundation and development opportunities for the company, they were held at an arm's length by a Minister of Industry and a government that obviously had other intentions. They would like BaneTele to suffer fate as a failed example of public ownership – and always wanted to privatize the company. At last year's government change, five o'clock was 12 o'clock. BaneTele had to be invested in new capital and acquire an industrial partner who could not only operate the company but who also had the power to further develop the company, exploiting the enormous possibilities offered by the rights to the fibre optics of the railway works and which could make BaneTele a real alternative to a dominant Telenor. In retrospect, it is now easy to see that the baptismal gift that Telenor received from the State today through the control of the telecommunications network was very lucrative. Many would look different if this infrastructure had still been owned and fully controlled by the state. Today, it is not a big deal to do with it, except to help us create an alternative infrastructure that can provide Telenor with long-term competition. Therefore, it is so important that BaneTele is able to develop and offer an open network where small and large customers can unhinderedly escape. The fact that the state owns 50 pst. by BaneTele, and that the Broadband Alliance is made up of publicly owned companies, is a safeguard in this way. Public governance and control of important infrastructure are, in my opinion, a fundamental common good – knowing that there is a marked fundamental distinction between the bourgeois parties and us on the left. The opposition parties have sometimes allowed themselves to wander over the government’s industrial policy — and in particular Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen. Sometimes this has had the character of the personal sheiks. So today we're dealing with a practical result of Eriksen's industrial policy. The BaneTele case honors Eriksen. Instead of allowing BaneTele to stagger further towards the fall, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade intervened. In the spring of 2006, the department carried out a process in which anyone who wanted to do so could make proposals for industrial and commercial solutions for BaneTele. The Ministry had discussions with several actors on different cooperation models. So the conclusion was that the broadband alliance AS best responded to the country's industrial objectives and ownership requirements. I am quite sure that the decisions taken today by Stortinget are in favour of BaneTele, but also in favour of Norwegian consumers and telecustomers. It must be premature for the bourgeois parties, who are so dissatisfied with both the process and the result, that the Handelsbank, which is usually close to the opposition parties, believes that the negotiated solution with the Bredband Alliance provides BaneTele with a very good and strong financial foundation, and that the State is ensured good influence on the development of the company through 50 pst. ownership. About the same thing also says Danske Markets Corporate Finance. In fact, it is not necessary to say so much more, except to remember that the then Minister of Economic Affairs Ansgar Gabrielsen, according to Today's Business, would sell the entire company for 200 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e462	The process with the company BaneTele was started to create a new ownership structure and to find an industrial partner that could strengthen the development of the company BaneTele. The company has not progressed satisfactorily in recent years, as the board informed the department. The board pointed out that the company’s challenge could best be solved through industrial cooperation with another market player. Thus, the aim was not to sell the entire company or parts of it, but to find a partner that could further strengthen the company’s development in order to become a nationwide competitor to Telenor and a service-independent provider of an end-to-end broadband capacity solution. In 2004, the government also proposed an increase of 120 million in BaneTele AS’ share capital. kr, supported by the Progress Party. Former Minister of Industry Eriksen stated in May of this year to the Business of the Day: ‘BaneTele will become a real competitor of Telenor, which is important for both business and households.’ With the implementation of this agreement with the Broadband Alliance, we may still maintain a very weak or lack of competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market, which in turn will result in a low transmission value offer at high prices, compared to our neighbouring country. The Contracting Party cannot see that the proposed solution of the Government will result in a strengthening of competition in the infrastructure market. It is possible that it was not the government's goal, but according to what Minister Eriksen said in May, competition for Telenor was important. For each user of the infrastructure market, it is essential that there is no monopoly on the provision of broadband and telecommunications services. When one sees what overall assessments the government has taken on the basis that the Broadband Alliance is considered to be the most interesting cooperation option – even though a unanimous board in BaneTele AS, the employees and their own advisors were of a completely different opinion and the offer was 200 million. kr below the highest bid – the Minister of Industry considered this solution the best, for it meets the country’s desire for a controlling holding, and the Broadband Alliance was the only player who could meet the requirement of at least 50 pst. state ownership. The same Minister of Industry Eriksen further stated in May that it was not appropriate to sell BaneTele for cheap sales. But with 200 million. kr below the highest bid this was quickly forgotten when the company was first sold. In retrospect, the bid has been raised by 200 million. kr, something perhaps more players would have wanted if the possibility had been present. Telenor has held and has a dominant position in this market, and with a new state institution in the broadband and telecommunications markets, the Progress Party does not believe that there will be any increased competition in the infrastructure market. On the basis of a desire for wider competition in broadband and telecommunications services, the Progress Party believes that BaneTele AS should be given more time to develop the company, both in terms of broadband deployment and to get a nationwide competitor in the telecommunications market. At the same time, the Government should consider implementing an exchange listing and partial privatisation of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e486	BaneTele was founded by the Railway Agency on 1 July 2001. It is the only nationwide option for Telenor for the transport of heavy data and telecommunications. The basis for BaneTele’s activities is the fibre optic network, which mainly follows the network and the infrastructure of the energy companies through Norway. The ownership structure in BaneTele has been discussed several times in the following years, as BaneTele has not had a satisfactory economic development in recent years. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has therefore carried out a process in the spring of 2006 in which the actors who wanted to do so have been able to make proposals for industrial and commercial solutions. The Ministry has had discussions with several actors on different cooperation models for BaneTele and has concluded that a solution with the Broadband Alliance best responds to the country’s own and industrial objectives and will provide a good solution for BaneTele’s activities. The right disagrees with this conclusion. They think it's more focused on ideology than industrial and market considerations, and can't see that this is an example of a different ownership strategy than what they stand for. It's a wonderful argument, they disagree with the conclusion, but don't see the difference between their own policies and ideology. The government has set itself high objectives in telecommunications policy. The Soria Moria Declaration states that: the introduction of digital universal access rights. In order to achieve this, the public should contribute financially, and we should achieve a more coordinated development of the various digital networks in Norway. The government will provide mobile networks in areas where coverage is poor today, and we will help BaneTele become a publicly controlled company that contributes to broadband structures throughout Norway. The government sees this company as an important tool and complement to Telenor in public efforts to ensure access to high-speed networks for all parts of the country. In addition, the network that the company leases is owned by the Railway Agency. It is important that it remains in public ownership and under official control, as part of Norway’s infrastructure. It can't be any surprise to anyone that the government concluded as it did. Official control is already fixed in Soria Moria. The broadband alliance covers this wish well. The government is accused of a bad process, of eradicating proceedings and of overrun by its advisers. If the Right had agreed with the conclusion, it would be called action. Here the Government has shown by its decision that it has a different ownership policy than the previous government. It wants to use state ownership to take the social responsibility of the state in terms of telecommunications policy. The Government wants to facilitate Community solutions and to maintain and develop joint ventures in order to achieve this. BaneTele represents a value that is very attractive to several companies. I believe it is important that the state and the public take care of and develop this value in order to achieve important social goals, rather than – as the Right will – just to sell it out to the maximum bidder. This solution means strengthening the company. This is taking social responsibility and not just thinking about the market and business economy. That's the difference between state ownership before and now, with new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e508	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e511	I think the debate has been interesting, but it shows something special: the opposition has no uniform alternative proposals for what has been presented here by the Government and which the majority of the Industry Committee fully supports. There are no uniform proposals from the opposition, except to allow the company to move on. That wouldn't be right. There are three areas for which the opposition criticises the Government and the majority. I want to comment on the three points. One concerns the process, the other concerns public ownership, and the third concerns competition in the telecommunications market. As for the process, I think I just want to agree with the excellent response of the Council of State that demonstrates that the process has been sound, and that the Ministry of Industry and Trade that owns has taken responsibility for carrying out a process that leads to a proper and good result. But I want to comment more on the question of public ownership. It is surprising and almost frightening that the opposition does not see the importance of the state and the public having a significant ownership of infrastructure, as BaneTele's fibre-optic network is. It is of great national importance to ensure its ownership. Nor is it a problem to see that it is ideologically based on the Central Party when we talk about infrastructure of national importance, that the public should have significant ownership. We ensure considerable ownership through the cooperation between the BaneTele and the Broadband Alliance, which is largely owned by the county municipalities. We stand for that, and it's important to stand for it. Finally, I would like to comment on the question of competition. I am extremely concerned that we should achieve competition in the telecommunications market. Especially on the infrastructure side, there has been a problem. But what emerges from the discussion is that it is not clear from the opposition that there is no other possibility of creating competition on the infrastructure side of the telecommunications market without BaneTele being an important player. I think we should stress it when we continue to work, that there is a better competition in the infrastructure market through the solution that gives BaneTele capital and more customers. I also find it strange that the opposition is not engaged in open, service-neutral networks, which are crucial for creating competition in the market, and which are essential for creating competition in the use of the network. Here, of course, there are very many commercial players competing, who depend on the network, and who are guaranteed that access now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e524	I just want to make a few brief comments to the representative of Gullvåg's posts and that attempt at writing history that came there. It was entertaining, but it's hard to take it seriously, to say it mildly. The representative of Gullvåg said that a continued bourgeois government would have sold BaneTele ‘on cheap sales’. This government went to a bidder who had a bid of 200 million. kr lower, and the reactions here in Stortinget on it have been fairly clear, to put it so. The representative of Gullvåg also said that the previous government held the board ‘at an arm's length’. The Board of Directors withdrew as a result of this government’s management of the sales process. So if you respond to the relationship with the board, I believe that the new government had a more clarifying line on that question. I also react to the representative of Gullvåg's attempt to claim that the former Minister of Industry was subjected to some sort of ‘shikanes’ or poor treatment from the opposition. That's a description that I don't know about. In addition to the problems created by the Government itself in the field of industrial policy, there is no doubt that the expectations created by the red-green parties in opposition, and the outlays and expectations created by the red-green politicians in position – those outside the Government – were the prime problem of the Minister of Industry, and that will continue to be the main problem for the new Minister of Industry in this government. I would have asked myself that it is the opposition that is put on the kind of stamps when it comes to the treatment of a Council of State. Otherwise, I think it is nice that the representative Breck places emphasis on competition in the telecommunications sector. Of course, so do we. But there is little evidence that the solution chosen will create some better competition than the other solutions that were possible here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e537	I understand very well that the representative Hansen does not want the history of the industrial policy of the previous government to be written. It's going to be written. I'm afraid it's going to be very little honour. On the other hand, I react to the fact that the representative Hansen is trying to run from his responsibility for the disaster that hit BaneTele until this government took over and made sure to find an industrial solution that will be sustainable for the company for many years to come. And one more thing: I think that the representative Hansen should talk to some of his committee colleagues and ask if they have a good conscience, when they have made comments in the speech of the former Council of State Eriksen that have not only been harmful to Eriksen, but also to a great extent to his party traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e546	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 234]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e554	Then Stortinget goes to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e5642	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right and Left The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement an exchange listing and partial privatisation of BaneTele. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e5668	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a good industrial solution for sales in and partnerships for BaneTele without emphasising state ownership as a criterion in the choice of solution.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19.ana.ud111e5846	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
