ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e154	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and up to 5 minutes to each of the other parties and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e163	At the end of last year, there were 500,000–600,000 workers who did not have an additional pension in addition to their social security. The big difference among pensioners has been between those who have, and those who do not have such a supplementary pension. The working party sees it as an important requirement of justice that all workers have a occupational pension. Therefore, when we negotiated the pension reform with the Bondevik government last year, the Workers’ Party made an indispensable demand that all workers be entitled to occupational pension in addition to the population’s pension as of 2006. This is now being implemented. There are at the same time three warning flags to be lifted. Firstly, the Government and the Storting have set minimum limits on the amount of pension to be secured. Employees should be on watch for employers who are trying to weaken already established pension schemes, with reference to the decision of the Storting. The government and Stortinget have established a floor, not a roof. Secondly, many companies are now competing to sell compulsory occupational pensions to businesses. Watch out for foolery! Some sellers claim that they offer free administration. But there is no free pension manager. It has to be paid for, for example. in the form of a lower return on the amount of savings. Others offer special discounts in 2006 without telling us what costs will be in the years to come. Once again, others hide or conceal the price by other means. I ask the Minister of Finance to ensure that there are clear rules for information obligations that make the real costs visible and what the costs depend on. Thirdly, it is important that the actual price appears and that pension schemes are managed effectively. But the cheapest offer is not necessarily the best. Of course, if a pension corporation bankes the money, it's a cheap government. If the company is to choose and place in shares, it may cost more, but at the same time it may provide higher pensions. An agreement for more active placement may cost even more, but provide the higher pension. Employees can therefore receive a lower pension if they choose the cheapest possible management. It is therefore absolutely necessary to assess the price in relation to what you pay for. This is also why the actual price of different services has to be clear. Both employers’ and employees’ organisations should engage in ensuring good arrangements for employees. In the credit notification, the Government has reviewed the exercise of monetary policy by Norway’s Bank. Neither the Government nor the Committee have material observations on it. The level of interest rates in Norway has been exceptionally low for several years. Norway’s Bank has announced that interest rates in Norway, like interest rates internationally, should be expected to gradually return to a more normal rental. The individual parts of economic policy are closely linked. The size of the budget itself determines its budgetary policy. We must avoid that budgetary policy itself contributes to a strange pressure on interest rates. The Government and all the parties in the Grand Duchy, other than the Progress Party, have therefore established a budgetary arrangement designed to prevent it. I have noticed that one in five Nordics, according to the Evening Post, is concerned about the effects of increased interest rates. This means that one in five is concerned about the impact of the economic policy of the Progress Party, for a significant increase in interest rates — a direct consequence of the Advance Party's draft budget. On questions raised by the Finance Committee of the Storting on the impact of an economic policy similar to that of the Progress Party, the Chief of the Bank of Norway clearly stated that it would: ‘have an immediate effect in the form of a higher interest rate and a stronger dollar rate, a higher Norwegian cost level. The higher level of interest rates will remain until the competitive economy has been built up to the extent that there is room for the increased demand that such an increased use would entail.» This means in clear terms the loss of thousands of jobs in Norwegian business and the loss of homes and homes for thousands of young families. I'm glad that all the other parties in Stortinget reject such a gambling with people's houses and homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e200	It was not a particular merry picture of the previous speeches drawn up by the Economic Policy of the Progress Party. I think we will be able to come back to that in this debate and have some good arguments against it. But first of all, let me start with the credit message itself in 2005, which we have been presented to, and which gives us a good look into the important financial industry. In particular, in view of the media image of a possible strike in the industry — at least in parts of it — it is clear how important this industry is to Norway as a society and not least to each of us as a resident and consumer. The Financial Committee, which promotes the suspension of the case, chooses to promote a position that is largely chemically free of political disagreement or, at least, where there is no choice to flag disagreement. If we look at Storting's treatment of the 2004 credit notification, it gives an interesting insight into how the everyday life of some political parties has obviously changed. The last year's setting was marked by comments from SV and the Central Party, a number of critical comments. These points of view are no longer prejudiced. Obviously, the government has also made some impressions in this area. And from my point of view, it is positive in this case. The main objective of monetary policy shall be to ensure low and stable inflation, as it also contributes over time to stable monetary value and exchange rates, which in turn are essential for the competitiveness of businesses. The Progress Party will continue its work to ensure the independence and independence of the Bank of Norway and, through monetary policy instruments, to ensure low and stable inflation, without interference from politicians. We think the credit notification gives a good picture of a financial industry in Norway that is going well and that the financial system is working well. On the other hand, what has taken place a number of remarks in the vote is related to the hearing held by the Financial Committee with the Governor on 22 May. The majority clearly want in their remarks to give the impression that they have a governor on their side in the fight against the desire of the Progress Party to use a little more of our oil assets for sensible investment. If we look more closely at what the governor actually said, the Progress Party believes that his response cannot be interpreted as unambiguously as the majority would like to add. The question raised in the hearing of the chairperson of the Committee is the major problem in the Norwegian social debate: what is the rational use of Norwegian oil billions? It is not chosen to draw a distinction between increased operational use and increased use for specific investments. I am pleased that in the Governor's answer to my question about how to possibly spend a few billion more, for example. distinguishing between what is operating and what is investment gives us a more nuanced picture. The central bank manager spoke out in particular:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. “It is possible to imagine a very subtle use of the money that does not have such a strong impact, but then it will probably have to go at the expense of what is initially the most priority problems, I would think.” As I read that answer, it actually expresses an uncertainty with the governor. And that's probably one of the core elements of the whole debate: there's no exact science how much, on the crown, you can spend on oil money before -- or if -- there's any negative results. The majority state that it 'applies the rule of action to budgetary policy'. Since the introduction of the action rule in 2001, the rule has not been complied with in a single financial year. You've actually spent over 100 billion dollars more than the rule would say. This underlines the point made by the Progress Party that such a rule alone cannot be the only gratifying. There are many other factors that play in terms of which level will make sense. It is also gratifying to note that more and more trade union economists are calling for more and more of the oil billions to be used. Yes, even a number of prominent representatives of big business and other politicians in the government parties are taking the same action. The debate on the use of oil money should be based on a more sensible approach, rather than on a one-sided approach. The setting includes: referred to as ‘tax reliefs generally appear less expansive to the economy than increased consumption in the public sector’. [[r r]] This is also stated by the Minister of Finance in a written reply. It is represented in the configuration. In its alternative state budgets, the Progress Party has proposed significant tax reliefs, including: based on the fact that I just mentioned. In addition, the Progress Party chooses to make proposals for investment in assets rather than focusing only on investments in foreign companies. Our proposals for investment will be very dear to Norwegian business. Combined with large cuts in a number of areas in the public sector, for which we also propose, this gives an overall – and better – use of some of the many oil billions served by the State. I note that the other parties on Stortinget still choose one-sided to focus on the rule of action. At the same time, more and more people are calling for a somewhat more nuanced view of this. This is pleasing to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e236	The economy is facing a demanding interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy in the future. Both policy areas are the responsibility of the Finance Committee and the Stortinge. In this setting, there are comments from government parties that go deeper into this work than before. The most important thing is to establish a common sense of reality in the Norwegian economy and in the interaction between the private and public sectors – that there is an interaction that is much more than a tight fiscal policy. Secondly, the Storting must see the whole and give priority — yes, give a tough priority — because without clearer priorities, we will end up with a monetary policy that will inevitably give a krone price that will be very damaging to business. It requires leadership, and it requires a much more active social debate on relationships than what we have today, in order to avoid such a development. Expansive fiscal policies may, in principle, have the same effect as if governments were stimulating private consumption or private investment through other policy decisions. It is the total economic activity of the public and private sectors that determines whether we have real resources that are sufficient to avoid harmful pressures in the economy. Norway is a rich country. We have unique possibilities to build Norway. We have unique opportunities to build the community, to invest in modern communications. We have opportunities to secure high-speed broadband for everyone by 2007, as the Soria Moria statement says. We have the ability to ensure the maintenance and development of the railway, on behalf, docks and fairways. Within the framework of the rules of action, this public sector investment programme must be clearly prioritised in future budgets. Providing more labour, for example, requires laborious work. by means of organisation, so that the many who are wholly or partly outside the labour market can participate as appropriate. We need increased incentives and demands to spread older workers to continue in working life after 67 years, as well as imported labour with Norwegian wage and working conditions, whether they come through foreign companies or are employed in Norwegian companies. Furthermore, it requires a strict prioritisation of public expenditure and a dampening of growth in private consumption and investment. It is a demanding but necessary task in order to ensure a sound crown price, which is going to be one of the most central issues in the Norwegian economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e249	There is no doubt that the large oil revenues give us great opportunities as a nation. We have the opportunity to extend well-being at a time when many of our European neighbours are building it down. We have the opportunity to invest more in value creation and future welfare, and we have the opportunity to secure the pension for both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. An important premise to do this is to ensure a balanced development of the economy. Then the two anchorages, namely the rule of action and monetary policy with the inflation target, are important prerequisites. I am therefore pleased that the current government has continued the two anchor parties in the economy and share the views expressed in relation to the consequences of the policy of the Progress Party. After consultation with the governor, there is no doubt about the impact of a significant increase in money use — including the impact of spending money on investment. That being said, the picture is of course also nuanced in the relationship between the previous government and the current government. It is that an economic policy that prioritises increased public consumption will be more expansive and pressured more on interest rates and crowns than a policy that also involves reduced taxes and taxes. This has been agreed by the Minister of Finance, in a letter to the Right Grandningsgruppe, which is also referred to in the vote. This means that the government has a significant responsibility in the time to come, to ensure that you do not push interest up. I share the concern expressed by the chairman of the committee, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, in relation to the consequences of increased interest rates. The fact that interest rates will gradually go up slightly is little doubt, but it is quite clear that the financial policy and the financial policy mechanism will have consequences for the extent to which they contribute to increasing the pressure on interest rates and rates. As a result, priorities for increased public expenditure are playing a key role in reducing taxes and taxes, and the structural policy itself is also involved. We have received a government that has put a full stop to the modernisation of the public sector, and is also not so concerned with other structural policy instruments such as increased competition and tax relief, which contribute to increased labour supply. There is also a moment in a discussion about how fiscal policy plays a role in the Central Bank's assessment of interest rates. So here it's not that the previous and the current government parties stand together in a race against the Progress Party. I share much of the assessment of the policy of the Progress Party, but there is also a difference between the consequences of the red-green policy and the policy pursued by the previous government, which has just managed to keep a low interest rate, ensure good growth in the economy and declining unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e262	I didn't intend to take the big debate on all the priorities and framework conditions for economic policy just below this point in the Great Britain today, but let me just make a few preliminary remarks since the governor has no reply and cannot defend himself. There is no need to ask questions about the advice given. The report of the hearing held by the Financial Committee is attached to the suspension and the assessments made therefrom are very clear. It's true, as the representative Sanner says, that we're here in an area where there's much consensus in the Storting. It is within the framework of economic policy that political priorities become clear. Then it's the political priorities and the desire to strengthen the public sector that lie behind this government's emphasis on what we're going to give priority to in the four years that we have the opportunity to do that, which is the choice of the way. The discussion of how different priorities are addressed in the economy becomes a different matter. It is the political priorities that are guiding. So to what's the situation. No one can doubt that the economic activity in 2005 has been high. We have an increasing employment. We have a unemployment coming down. We have a combination of low interest rates and a marked increase in income and wealth, which makes it the households that have been the main driving force behind the rise. It should further indicate that once households have gained a significant increase in purchasing power, there is not the greatest cry that we should give further priority to increasing purchasing power through tax havens. In recent years, business profitability has also improved, and continental investment has increased sharply. There has been a strong growth in oil investment and a good development in the international economy. It has given further impetus to growth in the mainland economy, and this has led to the gradual expansion of the Norwegian economy. We're lucky to enjoy high prices of the raw materials oil and gas, while importing low inflation. But we have a demanding situation with regard to the debt burden on households. What we know is that the financial institutions have good results for 2005. It is very clearly documented in the credit notification. The level of own funds of financial institutions has increased and those results can be explained to a large extent by the fact that the foreign volume has increased, it is close to zero losses, there are increased fees and commissions, etc., while crews have not increased accordingly to the increase in foreign volume. The increase in own funds helps institutions to be better equipped to bear risks. Households' indebtedness should worry the Storting. It worries the Government and is one of the conditions that we must have a very strong focus on in the period that comes. Household debt is growing faster than income – it is about. 170 pst. That's 10 pst. higher than at the end of the 1980s. Of course, interest rates are still low because interest rates are low and are significantly lower than in the 1980s. Low interest rates and increased housing prices are the main driving forces behind household borrowing demand. Any further interest rate increase in the future could contribute to a dampening of this. There is no reason for drama in it, but the governor gives clear notice that it will come in small but not frequent steps. It will depend on how the economic situation develops otherwise. What we know is going to be dramatic if the interest rate goes up fast. We know that approx. 130,000 families may have significant debt problems if interest rates rise rapidly by 3 percentage points. They will not be able to pay their debts. We know that many of the young people in the establishment phase have borrowed more than 80 pst. – yes even more than 100 pst. – the value of the dwelling. This is a fragile situation that needs to be taken into account when emphasising the development of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e281	We often forget in politics that things are often as Gro expressed it, that everything is related to everything. Today, when we are going to have a short debate on the credit notification, this will come out very well. What we do in financial policy affects Norwegian interest rates, exchange rates and cost levels. This was decided once and for all through the Committee's consultation on this communication, duly referred to by the chairman of the Committee. I must allow myself to say that the expression ‘to interpret in the best sense’ has a new meaning when we hear how the representative of the Progress Party Leirstein tries to take the Governor’s reply to the income for his point of view, when he quotes the Governor: ‘It is possible to imagine a very subtle use of the money that does not have such a strong impact’, etc. It gives the expression to interpret in the best sense, or to interpret for your own benefit, a whole new meaning. I have to say that it's good, and it also shows the debate here, that there is a lot of consensus in Norway about what can be called the 'Bible of Dryness', that the rule of action is an ingenious way to add up to a reasonable use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. The fact that politicians impose themselves on seagoing manners, as we have done here, is perhaps something we should think about more often. But there is no bomb, and it has also been shown in the setting, that there are exceptions in this room. A slightly more precise way of saying it is that there is one exception. I keep getting away, and also here today, in thinking that they dare – when I hear representatives from the Progress Party argue for their economic policy. I don't want to say that if you say that nine out of ten economists in Norway support what I would call the proper use of oil money in the economy, where we put an approximate ceiling on how much money it tolerates before there is a risk of cooking up. But I have understood that economists do not stand so high in the course of our opponent's course half. Perhaps my old hero – and probably more others’ hero – Donald Duck can instead be the opinion maker on that edge. In the newspaper last Saturday, reference is made to a brilliant story, otherwise also pictured, where the Minister of Finance poses with our friend Donald. Donald wants to find a way to get rich — without working. It's a great story. But this is not going very well, not until the money to Uncle Screw is taken by a cyclone and the money is spread beyond Andeby's fragile economy. Most people who read Donald know the story of our husband and his friends. It is understood that when this happens, it takes away — with galloping prices, labour shortages, etc. In other words, things go very wrong in Andeby. I'm not going to say that we get such conditions overnight in Norway if you choose a far more extreme use of oil than the vast majority of people want. But I am recording in this debate and in the setting that some people are choosing to jump over the warnings from an almost collective professional environment, internationally and nationally, and the political environment about what happens if you inject significantly more dollars into our small economy on the edge of the world, which, after all, is Norway. I thought in my young mind that perhaps Donald's experiences from Andeby make a greater impression. However, today's debate shows that this does not happen either. Being responsible is not always the most exciting. I'm a fan of having courage, being bold and going to a little sometimes. But in this case, I hope – also in relation to future credit notifications – that I will still belong to those who are not the most exciting in the series. I don't want us to experience what we can call short-term fun in the country, which is followed by Andeby states in Norway. I think that can unfortunately be the consequence if you don't pursue a policy where you listen to the people who actually have it, to what the vast majority of professional economists and others in Norway say is the sensible use of money in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e308	I'm not going to extend the debate very much. But since the Council of State was involved in the debt burden of households, I was thinking of focusing her attention on some of the funding activities that speculate that people are raising more loans than they really should. Unfortunately, it is often the case that banks are actually behind the type of financial institutions that advertise on the back of tabloids, on text TV, etc. How much loan you can get without any kind of security. Answers are given per person. SMS in 10 seconds. I think there's reason to see this in the context of rising housing prices, who will actually be hit if we get a higher interest rate, and what it will lead to for many families. I will therefore challenge the Council of State on what she will do, and how she will address what we see of more aggressive marketing of consumer loans, which in turn could lead to the danger of houses and homes for many families. There's no doubt that the evolution we're seeing here is going in the wrong direction. We have no obligation to advise, but I'm not sure if it works exactly the way it should. So my challenge goes to the Minister of Finance, as I know she's been concerned about the same thing, about how she's going to follow the development, and whether she'll possibly take action to ensure that our everyone's willingness to borrow is kept at a level that's more sound than it might be at present. So it was exciting to hear about Andeby and the representations of Micaelsen on Donald Duck. We might agree that Norway is in the situation of Fat Anton. We're exceptionally lucky in this country, and then it's about managing the wealth and opportunities we have, in a good way. I am pleased that there is a large majority behind the rule of action – it promises well. It's not something we're alone about. The Committee was in the OECD and was given the same advice. The International Monetary Fund has just produced a new report that says something of the same thing. Yes, I also see that State Secretary Geir Axelsen suggests that when the State Council will present a new state budget, she should even go under the 4 p.m. rule in the use of oil money. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e319	If I'm going to start where the representative Syversen concluded: I have also noticed the statements of the Minister of Finance via her State Secretary that it may be relevant to use less than 4 pst. for a period. I think we might be in a situation where the economy is now so overheated and going so fast, and a press the real interests so hard in this country that it may be necessary to have an even tighter fiscal policy. Of course, we are waiting for the 2007 draft budget to see if this is already happening. In any case, there will be a tremendously demanding political situation for the Government to have to do what is necessary for the country, while at the same time taking some real steps up against Soria Moria. I hope, in any case, that the Government will think in the long term and give priority to what is the necessary economic policy at large, rather than having to fulfill some promises – although it may be difficult to meet the opposition at that point when it has to be done. But it's a government and a finance minister's lot in life to do what's necessary. Otherwise, I think it's going to be a pretty pointless debate to discuss whether the governor belongs to most people or not. The central bank manager has his job to do, and I think we all have great confidence that that job is being done, and should not be part of the ongoing debate in Stortinget. It was also both a useful and important consultation that the Financial Committee had with the Governor. What seems to be quite clear on the central bank manager's alerts, and what seems to have been read and adopted, is that because of developments in the Norwegian economy, the economic situation and many conditions, we are facing a period of interest rise. I don't think we're going to push too much political polemics on the basis that interest rates are going to increase anything, but I think we're going to be very alert to say that it's enough within the political sphere of action and responsibility how fast and how far interest is going to increase. It is an important area which, not least, the fiscal politicians of the Great Britain must follow in the future. I mean, for example. that if one were to translate unilaterally into practical economic policies through future budgets what was the electoral campaign about more community and less tax relief, it could in isolation contribute to higher interest rates than a more balanced development in this area would have done, simply on the basis of the fact that money to municipalities gives more pressure to the economy than money spent in other areas. This has also been confirmed by the Minister of Finance himself in a letter to the Committee. I also think it is a point to underline what emerged at the hearing with the Financial Committee, where it was suggested that as much as 15 p.m. by households in this country are in a very difficult situation to cope with their liabilities if interest rates are to increase in the future. It places a particular responsibility on the whole of the Biggest to contribute, on the basis of a distribution policy, to those who need it the most in society, that interest rates should not increase more than what it should do in a situation where it appears to be rising. It is important to pursue a tight policy and to keep track of many Community tasks. But perhaps even more important is solving the common tasks in a smarter way, with a slightly smaller contribution to the pressure in the economy to solve the public Community tasks in a way that can clear up the economy for other activities, and that makes it impossible for us to get the same pressure on interest rates. I am reminded of the issues of competition in important areas – allowing private tasks to be carried out in a more efficient way, as we have experienced in many areas, which this government seems to want to reverse. It clears up less space in the economy to do the problems better, so it puts less pressure on the interest rate. So it's always the way that when we get a debate between the Progress Party and the rest of the parties in this Chamber, there's going to be a debate about the rule of action. First of all, I haven't actually experienced anyone who looks at the rule of action as an absolute size. It's shown in the last few years. It's used something more than 4 pst. for a period because the economy could withstand it and had room for it. Maybe we can now face a period where it might be necessary to use something less. In any case, it is enough that the economy seems to be able to withstand more by moving the capacity limit. It has something to do with access to labour in and out of the country. We see it in Polish craftsmen who travel around their cars in this city and other places. We're looking at how imports from China make things happen to us in a more efficient way than before. It is an important part of the long-term development that is important for a country such as Norway, which wants to improve its well-being by using oil money — and we do so in large quantities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e335	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e338	Through a long election campaign, today's government parties built an enormous level of expectation for what they were going to do when they came to power. Only the majority were assured would it be speedy in almost any infrastructure project. The welfare was to be strengthened, and poverty was to be eradicated. In order to finance this, the growth of the Norwegian economy should not be increased, taxes should not be increased, and the public sector should not be cut. No, all promises are to be financed using the rule of action. In other words, Norwegian welfare and infrastructure will depend on the price we get for a barrel of oil, or on 4 pst. estimated return on central government pension funds. The strange thing about this logic is that there is not how much public money is injected into the Norwegian economy, which defines financial accountability, but a certain percentage of an ever-increasing amount of the State pension fund — abroad. In other words, the government has abandoned a significant management tool in exchange for a defined percentage of an ever-increasing amount. During every minute of every hour of every day for all 365 days of the year, the total amount of the State pension fund abroad has been set aside in the last year for more than DKK 800000. The total indicates that the State budget for 2007 will be financially responsible for spending almost DKK 15 billion more than in 2006. If the oil price had been even higher, it would have been financially responsible to use even more. If the oil price had been lower, it would have been economically responsible to use less. This is completely independent of whether the money is used for investment or operation, whether the money is used in Norway or abroad, or whether the money is used for tax or tax relief. The most eye-catching thing about the rule of action is to ignore economic recessions, or where there is free capacity in the Norwegian economy. This is with respect to report financial hesitation. It is simply financial and economic talk, and then I speak both as an economist and as a big business representative. There is a disclaimer of political responsibility in the system, where it becomes more important to respect a senseless economic figure magic, rather than to solve the challenges we are set to solve. What Norway is doing today, to a great deal of applause, among other things. the other representative, Schjøtt-Pedersen, is spending our money cleaning up the neighbor’s house – in fact, all the houses in the street. At the same time, we are determined that our own house will expire. Our children and grandchildren are going to inherit a house of worn-out dwellings, a house where the electrical system fails, and the paint stains the walls. It's this Norwegian house we're going to leave to our children, while our generation has done its utmost to clean up all the other houses in the street. It's actually even worse than that. Had it only been the house in a street we had talked about, it would have been to live with, but what we're actually talking about is that we're upgrading our competitor's infrastructure and industries with our own national wealth. Ola and Kari are spending their money in a way that will in the long run compete with their own livelihoods. This logic cannot be defended within the framework of any economic models, and there is also the FrP code.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e351	I have often wondered how the government party has come to the conclusions that they have, but it has given the representative Micaelsen an answer to this today. The red-green parties think Norway is like Andeby. If Mikalsen had read a bit further, he would have read that Andeby – as far as I think – had a closed economy and had no contact with the outside world. It is not Norway. If the government has not got it, it is no wonder that one comes to the conclusions of a government. What made me want to take the floor was the post from Schjøtt-Pedersen where he says that one in five Nordics is afraid of an increase in interest rates, and thus one in five Nordics is afraid of the policy of the Progress Party. Of course, it is completely wrong. What the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen forgets to tell us every time is that the Progress Party in its 2006 alternative government budget had a net cut in public expenditure of NOK 12 billion. We had a slightly lower surplus on the state budget – NOK 17 billion – but we had a net cut in public spending, and we spent almost NOK 30 billion on tax and tax expenses. I have to remind you that the International Monetary Fund has recommended Norway to reduce taxes. It will improve competitiveness. It is that a krona that goes to tax relief gives a completely different effect than a krona that is going to break into the public sector. Why is that? There are essentially three reasons for that. It's a larger part of the krona that's given in tax dollars, that's going to save, than the crown that's going to break into the public sector. It's the one. The second is that a larger part of the krona given in tax bills will be going to demand goods and services abroad more than the krona going to the public sector. This applies especially if, for example: reduces car charges. Then a large part of it will be going to demand cars produced abroad, which will not create pressure in the Norwegian economy. Then it's the third ratio, that tax relief on wages will increase the supply of work. Many figures from the Statistical Central Bureau have shown that this is correct. I must also remind you that when Schjøtt-Pedersen was appointed as Minister of Finance, from 2000 to 2001, Norway’s Bank interest was increased from 5.5 pst. to 7 pst. When the Progress Party got a hand on the steering wheel of economic policy, it went down, from 7 p.m. to 2 pst. Now the Labour Party has taken over the power again, and then the interest is at full speed upwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e362	There are many challenges in Norway. When you hear about the number of the Progress Party, it seems that Norwegian business has come to an end in terms of loss of competition with other countries. So it's like we have one of the world's highest welfare levels. We have one of the world's most competitive economies. We have a high productivity. The problem is that if we were to follow the economic policy recommended by the Progress Party, we would not only hit households so that thousands of young people would lose homes, but we would also have a cost pressure that would mean that Norwegian competitive activity would lose in competition with other countries, and we would lose jobs. To quote the Governor: ‘The higher level of interest rates will remain until the competitive economy has been built up to the extent that there is room for the increased demand that such an additional use would entail.’ I record that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is talking about the rule of action as what is financially sound to use. Yes, it's a long-term, sensible phase-in of the oil money in the Norwegian economy. However, even more use of oil money within the framework of the rule of action has a negative impact on competitive business. If we spend more money, it means that the pressure in the Norwegian economy is increasing, even if we are within the framework of the rule of action. It helps us lose a lot of jobs that we wouldn't have lost otherwise. But we're going to take the oil money into the economy at the same time, and then we have to have a reasonable way to do it. There is a broad consensus that it makes sense to have such an action rule, which will ensure that we do so in a reasonably balanced, long-term and sound manner. So the representative, Tybring-Gjedde, says you're ignoring the economic cycle. You can wonder if Tybring-Gjedde has been close to seeing what the economic guidelines are. The economic guidelines have two elements: one element is the so-called action rule, which implies the use of the real return of the Pension Fund. The second is that the economic situation must be taken into account at all times and how much it is possible to use without harmful effects on the economy. Both these matters shall be weighed by the Minister of Finance. Both of these conditions shall balance the size. What is the problem for the Progress Party is that they neither have a long-term strategy nor take into account the current economic situation at all times, but only look at what is the easiest thing to do at all times, although in that way tens of thousands of young families are thrown out of their homes and homes, and even if tens of thousands of people are thrown into unemployment as a result of job losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e379	The working party is used to being a cleaning boy after the bourgeois governments. I guess that's also a good explanation of why interest went up after the Japs in the 1980s. I actually think that all parties learned something from it – except the Advance Party. Then you might ask yourself, "Why is that?" Well, if you listen to what the representatives of the Progress Party say in the debate, a lot comes out. They would rather have tax relief than spending money in the public sector. Yeah, we've seen that. In the last period, they gave DKK 110 000 in tax bills to someone who made $3.5 million. So kr – they gave more than one minimum pension in tax relief – while they removed the free schoolbooks scheme, they removed the child benefit for children under three years of age, they removed the free medicine scheme in blue respect, they removed the gravitational assistance scheme, they cut the daily allowance for the unemployed by up to NOK 20 000, they increased the VAT rate from 24 to 25 pst. – a tax boost of approximately NOK 4 billion – the reintroduced excesses on free legal aid for those who earn less than NOK 230000. But they were able to give more than one minimum pension in tax credits to people who made 3.5 million. kr of the year! The Committee visited the EU and the OECD the week before Easter, and last week we visited the International Monetary Fund. Everyone has been quite clear about what Norway needs to do: we have to stick to the rule of action and the 4%, because that is what determines whether the Norwegian economy has confidence or not. We have to focus on that, while we have to look at the pressure in the Norwegian economy. Yesterday I was at a meeting in Kristiansand in West Agder, where I met some business managers and trust leaders. The employees had received 9 kroner and 50 dollars per hour in the salary bill – without requiring wage negotiations. In fact, they wanted there to be Norwegian workers at their place of work, so they were willing to show moderation. But they got an offer of 9 kroner and 50 cents from the company management, which said that if they didn't join the carousel that's about to arrive, they didn't get a workforce. It is also a challenge in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e386	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is talking about economic recessions and the rule of action. That's exactly where the contradiction lies. You say on the one hand that the rule of action is flexible, while on the other hand you say that it's solid. We politicians are going to make that assessment. Political parties must then be able to assess it in different ways. We can't have a unanimity in Stortinget where you say it's going to be 4 pst. But then it's not going to be 4 pst. however, depending on one or the other. As politicians, as political parties, we need to assess what is responsible and sensible in Norwegian economic policy. That's politics. That's what we're set here to manage -- not a percentage set by others, which we're going to defend. We have to evaluate this ourselves, based on our knowledge. The parties must assess what is responsible for the Norwegian economy as a whole. That's our job. It's the total activity in the private and public sectors that controls how much money we can spend in the Norwegian economy. Then you should ask: why spend money on e.g. Innovation Norway? Well, to get more speed in the Norwegian economy. But then there will be pressure in the economy, according to several speakers, for example. Klungland. However, you should not inject 1 billion kroner into Innovation Norway if you do not want more speed in the Norwegian economy. And one should not cry crocodile tears over lost jobs, because that would weaken the Norwegian economy and not create pressure in the Norwegian economy. It's a pointless logic. It's not related. It's not related to saying on the one hand that we can't use 5 more cents, and on the other hand that we can use a lot more in the private sector, when it's the total consumption in the private and public sectors that defines whether we get pressure in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e393	Several of the claims made by the representative Klungland are incorrect. He probably knows that very well. Many of these things were not something that we went into our alternative state budget, but the fact that there was a deterioration in some of these areas was something that we had to accept after a conciliation. But since the representative of Klungland is going so far ahead, I assume that the Labour Party and the rest of the Government will now rectify the things that the Progress Party did not fully grasp in the negotiations with the Bondevik II Government Party in the previous period. He also mentioned that we went into the realms for heavy taxes. That's not correct either. We went in to remove the property tax, but it's a short cut to say that it's only the rich that pay taxes on wealth. It's actually the way that pensioners pay approx. 40 pst. of the taxes on wealth; many of them are also the minimum pensioners. This is a strange tax, which very many of our competitors don't have – most don't have – and it also makes many of the really rich flags out of the country. The representative of Klungland also made a number that the Advance Party went in to increase the overall VAT rate from 24 pst. until 25 pst. We did not do that in our alternative state budget, but it was something that we agreed in negotiations with the government party to vote for subsidiaryly. The representative of Klungland, not mentioned, was that the Labour Party went in to increase the food tax from 11 to 13 p.m. after the progress batch had got the food tax down to 11 pst. There's something that's very unsocial, because the lower the income you have, the greater the percentage of income spends on buying food, so that when you increase the food tax, it'll obviously go far beyond those who have the bad economy, than those who have the very good economy. So I just want to remind you once again that this thing with devices on how we spend the money is important. If an e.g. reducing the single charge on a car, which was used as an example instead, it will stimulate more people to buy a new car. So we get a newer car park, we get less demand for workshop services, and we also get fewer traffic accidents. How can it create pressure in the Norwegian economy? I could imagine getting a professional report about it from someone in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e406	The progress party has a special form of logic. First of all, it's a change in the food tax of 1 pst. has a much greater impact than an increase in the general level of VAT of 1 pst. In fact, an increase in general VAT affects a lot morethan an increase in food tax. Then it is true that the Workers' Party is in the process of correcting the skepticism that the Advance Party contributed to when they had – so-called – the hand on the steering wheel. We have corrected the Working Environment Act, we are in the process of correcting the changes in unemployment benefits – to mention two examples. In order to explain the context of the representatives of the Progress Party, there may be grounds for recalling that an increase in interest rates, as there is little doubt that the policy of the Progress Party will lead to, implies that foreigners are willing to pay more for the Norwegian krona. This means that the exchange rate is increasing, which means that Norwegian business is less paid for goods in the currencies of other countries. So what kind of effects does that have? We have examples of that from the time that the Progress Party, according to its own statement, had its hand on the steering wheel. From the second quarter of 2002 to the second quarter of 2003, Norway lost 33 000 jobs in Norwegian business. If I don't remember very well, 19 000 of them were in the industry, a substantial part of the counties that are in the region from which the representative Hagesetter comes. What is the concern of the Progress Party over that? Well, they want to pursue a policy that actually helps to push up the exchange rate and that contributes to such a breakdown of Norwegian business in terms of job losses. So what is the answer of the Progress Party? Well, when the former leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, was confronted with the effects of this policy on business, the answer was: So what? Yes — so what? The effects are that workers lose their jobs, that unemployment increases, and that Norway loses competitiveness. It is these effects that make the Labour Party and all the other parties, except the Advance Party, so strongly warn against the economic gambling of people's homes and houses, the economic gambling of people's jobs, with which the Progress Party operates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e413	What we are witnessing today in this somewhat lingering debate in the heat of June is, as I understand it, a little bit of what has been announced: the struggle of the Labour Party to crack the progress party code. I don't know how much I and other parties are going to put into it, but I understand that there are a lot of stress factors here, not least when yesterday we got news reports that there is a significant number of members of the Joint Alliance voting the Progress Party – and that is the core areas of the Workers' Party. So that's probably in such a context one has to understand it. But of course there are also many realities in that debate. But that's not what I want to comment on. I let myself be provoked for once in this Chamber when the representative Klungland went up to the pulpit and said that the Workers' Party had a little tradition of being a cleaning boy after the bourgeois governments. I had the honour to sit in the previous government, which was a bourgeois government, and I don't want to have that it was necessary to clean up the Norwegian economy after the previous government. With all due respect, I don't think there's any government over the years that has been given the opportunity to take over a house that the red-green government was given the opportunity to harvest – which is good, and which I admire this government. But to claim that it was a clean-up task in relation to the Norwegian economy, in a situation of low interest rates, with falling unemployment, with an order in the economy that hardly any country has seen, I found to be an unusually dishonest and unyielding characteristic of the representative Klungland. I would rather challenge the representative of Klungland by saying that let us now – both he and I – be careful to note now the next few years ahead and let us meet here for debate, for example. in the review of the revised spring 2009, summarising briefly how interest rates have evolved during this period. What has happened to the number of industrial workplaces in this period, and to other important parameters for many of us? Then we'll see what was cleaning up, and what was decay that might require a clean-up after 2009. But now it's not clearing up after the previous government that's the necessary task, it's just about delivering equally good results, and it's demanding enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e425	Gærmund Hageseter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e428	When the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen starts talking about gambling with Norwegian jobs and gambling with the households, we will listen. It shows both the history and the current evolution that he's got things on. The point is that when he was in power and was a finance minister, the interest from Norway Bank was up in 7 pst. – this meant that the households had to pay 8 pst. If the government is able to raise interest and rotate it so that interest rates reach the same level as then, it will mean that a household of 2.5 million. kr in debt has to pay NOK 100000 more per year. year in interest expense. The point of progress is not disagreeable with the fact that increasing interest rates may lead to a strengthened crown. Our point is that our policy will not contribute to the increase in interest rates; our policy will contribute to the rational development of interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e436	Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e439	The representative Schjött-Pedersen spoke about lost jobs. The whole point is that you have a business that's moving. You can't, like the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, count every four years how many industrial jobs have been lost in the last four years. It's a meaningless statistic. The point is to focus on research and development and on the skills-intensive industries. This means that you can't, among other things, Cut 25 billion dollars into the Research Fund and think it'll solve itself. That's not how it happens. It is clear that if industrial jobs are lost, these industrial jobs will be replaced by other industrial activities, and that is what has happened in Norway in the last four years. The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen heir, as the representative Sponheim correctly said, an economy that was very healthy, because they had cut many industrial jobs, but replaced them with technologically demanding and demanding industries. That is what we must invest in in the future. So here, the government in the Research Fund, and it's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e444	I am tempted by the ability to throw myself into this debate, but let me try not to help that it takes too long. I just want to take a few moments. It is, of course, a good and bad starting point for economic policy. In any case, there are challenges. Now we are in an extremely favourable situation with low prices of many imported products, and more and more imported products. The economic development of both China and India is pulling up the world economy. We have a double effect of that, both because of our imports and because of good export prices. I think maybe the representative Sponheim has had a little little bit of an opportunity to influence that. At least I'm not going to take credit for economic development either in China or in India or for the state of American economy or anything. That's what I'm saying out loud from Storting's pulpit, so it's in Storting's magazine, and you have it as proof for later. The challenge is to pursue a sound economic policy based on the economic situation and situation in the world economy. The biggest challenge we have now is to make sure that we don't put ourselves in a position where interest rates go right to the worst, and that we use the space of action in the economy to strengthen what we think is most important, and that is public services. It is knowledge, health, the nursery sector and the care sector — the areas that were prioritised because the previous government gave priority to tax relief at the expense of it. Then I would like to invite something that the representative Syversen, and to the extent that the chairman of the committee, too, was in his posts. There are several aspects of aggressive lending by various companies. One is this SMS lending business, where people – let's caricature it – can sit in the pub a late evening and get a loan when a person goes out of money and wants to continue the party, and wakes up the next day and thinks it wasn't very clever. It's a relationship that we look closely at based on what today's law is, and whether or not there is a need for some change in that context. The second relationship is whether it is possible for ordinary consumers to understand what is actually the price of consumer loans – what is the real interest rate and the amount actually paid back. It is also about marketing. There is a cooperation between the Consumer Minister, the Minister of Justice and me, and we have to make sure that we have good enough legislation to do this. I have a high focus on it, because my concern about how this activity is taking place is as great as the more members of the Committee have expressed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e457	I had a hope that in this discussion we could get a little further in relation to what has been the discussion about the rule of action and financial policy. I had a hope that one could see more closely the relationship between public activity and private activity, which in total attracts the same labour and real resources that we have at our disposal, and which are really the point we have to decide on. The representative, Tybring-Gjedde, said that being responsible, prioritizing, that's what politics are. The representative, Tybring-Gjedde, further said that we need to assess, based on our knowledge, what is proper. Then it's important that one more take on the professional platform, as Tybring-Gjedde's representative suggested, to have it at the bottom before looking at the political discretion. After all, the party of progress is a sure winner by going in to increase private growth and increase private activity more than the government adds. One goes further in order to increase the public expenditure more than the government adds. In other words, the Progress Party has few restrictive measures that could result in a total of one coming out with a whole that is justifiable. It is quite reasonable that what the Progress Party is proposing is a policy in which, in practice, one leaves the Governor to clean up by using monetary policy as a last resort. The progress party has two hands and says that one has no responsibility. Obviously, there is a responsibility when one in total adds up to something that goes far beyond what one has real resources to. I tried in my first post to appeal to get further into the discussion on reality, on the impact of the interaction between public and private money and on the use of labour to get a public word change on that basis and get a priority: What do we want with Norway? This is a whole that we come back to on several occasions, and I hope that we can go deeper into it, so that we can get a whole that means that what we do, in sum, is responsible. The Progress Party has here a challenge that is enormous, as the whole of the degrees exceeds what we have real resources to do, so that policy will not be able to practice if one comes into a responsible role.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e472	I'm not going to get too involved in the macroeconomic campaign that the committee leader is leading towards the Progress Party. Our remarks stand. But when the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen talks about the release of the winter 2002 and accuses the Progress Party of it – and of course even more the Government, in which my party was put in – he has just said today in one of his economic dosages for the precisely Progress Party that there is a high interest rate that is odd and that helps us to lose competitiveness and that the Norwegian krone becomes strong. It was the interest rate that was too high. And not enough that it was too high, it was much higher than what it was in our competitors – in comparable EU countries – and it was our fiscal and domestic policies that had contributed to it. When we took over, of course, it took some time before tight fiscal policies and, among other things. tax relief began to work. Although I agree with the Labour Party in much of what has been said here today – we also agree in the comments – I would say that in terms of exactly the availability of winter 2002, it was a function of the policy that had been pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e479	First of all, I must say that I did not intend to speak in this debate. But when there is such a violent frontal attack on the economic policy of the Progress Party, we all know that we are the party that currently has good governance. It is also true that there is a part that remembers a little further back than until 2002 and 2001. When we had labor party government, the following happened in Finnmark: it closed over 5,000 jobs. 450 of them were in Vardø. It just disappeared 600 in South Varanger. And if we think of a number like 5,000 jobs in both the public and the private, and multiply it by an indicator of 2.5, maybe 3, then it's 15,000 people who were directly affected by this, and then we have a population of 73,000 as the starting point. This is a pretty formidable statistic. When the Schjött-Pedersen, who was also in government, looked to them to challenge the Progress Party and say that we are the cause of both unemployment and high interest rates, this becomes completely meaningless in my eyes. We remember! And we also remember that there was a crowded Finnmarkshall with 1,500 present who turned their backs on Stoltenberg and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e488	There's quite a lot you could grasp in this debate, but that's not all you can do in a few minutes. Let me first say that when I heard Lundtigen from the Central Party on the platform – not that we necessarily agree on everything – I feel at least that there is considerable movement in some parts of the government parties on certain issues. I myself have had the pleasure of participating in debates with that representative, and at least I interpret those statements as very clear in the sense that it is actually possible to think a little different than swearing eternal allegiance to the rule of action, and the interpretation that Schjøtt-Pedersen had to use at any time for that rule. I also register today that there is quite a lot of scare propaganda going on. Twice the rapporteur on this speech has said that many thousands will lose houses and homes as a result of the economic policy of the Progress Party. I think that kind of horror propaganda doesn't actually go home to people. It is not the case that the Progress Party conducts irresponsible economic policies. On the contrary, there are increasing numbers, including trade union economists, who speak out in the direction of what the Progress Party has pointed out for many years. Yes, there are even a lot of people in the Workers' Party's own ranks who are still missing, at least in what I read in newspapers and watch TV, speaking exactly the same way as the Advance Party does. Many professional economists have thought that we can use something more, and that we can do things in a different way. A lot of the debate should be on how to use it, not necessarily on how much you spend at all times, as Schjøtt-Pedersen adds. But since there are now quite a number of groups of the Workers' Party that agree to this – we saw it in the media in particular after several of the county annual meetings of the Norwegian Workers' Party, where there were thus more and more in the Workers' Party who went out and agreed to this, even several county annual meetings adopted resolutions that a person wanted to spend more oil money, among others. for road investment – does that mean that the Workers' Party's own ranks are full of irresponsible people flying around with completely irresponsible opinions? It would have been very interesting to get a clear answer from the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e499	I have full respect for the fact that the representative Sponheim needs to draw a very positive picture of the results after the previous government. I still think there's a need to nuance that picture. Unemployment was significantly higher than when the government joined, employment growth was clearly lower than the growth of the population, we saw a significant exclusion from the labour market, and we saw a lack of commitment to development in important areas. I am so pleased that the representative Sponheim is satisfied, but the fascination with it is that the Norwegian people were not satisfied, which is also the background for a new government. So I noticed that the representative Fleet refers to the tight fiscal policy that was run by the previous government. The Labour Party largely agrees with the main economic policy framework, which was in terms of totality, but one must not try to present it as if the fiscal policy of 2001 and beyond were stricter than the fiscal policy pursued earlier. Then I have to ask the representative Fleet to go further into the material. I will not comment much with the representative Fredriksen, but only memory that the loss of 1 000 jobs in the fishing industry in Finnmark occurred from 2002 to 2003, when the Progress Party, according to the statement by the representative Hagesetter, had ‘one hand on the steering wheel’. The government and the Progress Party lifted as if they didn't know a finger to meet it. So finally, this discussion of interest. It is therefore the case that the Bank of Norway pursues monetary policy. During the examination of this matter, the Financial Committee has asked the person responsible for the conduct of monetary policy what would be the impact of the type of money used by the Progress Party. The answer, as the Minister of Finance said, is clear: there will be a significant increase in interest rates, there will be a significant cost pressure, and there will be an exchange rate increase. This will have consequences both for Norwegian business and for households. What worries me is if the Progress Party walks around and thinks, actually goes around and believes and not just gives the impression that their policies should not have these effects. It would be even more serious. What is obvious to nearly all other observers and all economists who follow this debate is that the impact of such a policy would be serious. Therefore, there will be a need for the Progress Party to take over that kind of objection, rather than just wave it aside and say it's immaterial. What you're playing with is, I repeat, tens of thousands of houses and homes and tens of thousands of jobs. You should have a responsibility to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e510	I think it might be nice when Sponheim lifts up in a bird's-eye view, although I would encourage him to stick to the chicken saying on this issue. There is no doubt that during his period in government we increased the use of oil money. There is a little bit of the definition that is the subject of discussion today between the Advance Party and the other parties. So cleaning up can mean a lot more than cleaning up economic policies. For example, one can clean up the municipal economy, one can clean up the rights of employees in the law, one can clean up the cuts in pensions and cuts in unemployment benefits, one can clean up in relation to the bet on kindergartens, and one can clean up the lack of environmental effort. Then one actually has to make some choices. Then you cannot at the same time spend money in the form of taxes. The progress party is not easy to understand, because when they're run at one end, they're talking about their alternative budget, while at the other end, if there's something they want for, they've had a hand on the wheel and been with and steered the budgetary policy. Yes, it is that if they are to be responsible for what went well, they must also take responsibility for what did not go so well. That is why these debates are important, precisely to bring out the true face of the Progress Party. Think if all the political parties would talk out of their alternative budgets and not care as much about the decisions that an actual one is making. But that is what the Progress Party has done. That's what's going on after the Progress Party. The most important thing for most people is actually the decisions that are taken here in the house. So they ask, will the Labour Party clean up? Yes, we do. But it's hard to clean up when the procedures get so big that there's something else that's taking over, for example. interest rate policy. We should therefore be pleased that the alternative budget of the Progress Party has never been adopted. I hope it's never going to be adopted either, because it's going to be a huge job to clean up. After the Willoch period I got a building loan of 21 pst. interest rate. I want to ask the fleet to read its articles and link it up with the fact that we had an interest rate of 21 p.m., and he will also understand how wrong it was, what he said in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e523	Lars Sponheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e526	I understand the representative of Klungland now settles in place by defining clearing as more than continuous political work where one works for his political affairs, and that is something quite different from what I, and I think most others too, perceived it as when he spoke about the need to clear up after a government. I didn't even want to use that expression about the situation in 2001, when we also had a government shift, where we had record high interest rates, when we had increasing unemployment, and when the governor in his speech used the expression that it is illegitimate in the Norwegian economy. Even I wouldn't use the expression 'to clear' after the Stoltenberg I government. So finally, the finance minister addressed me for a moment by trying to give me the credit that there are so many Chinese. I have been on my way to Beijing, along with the Minister of Finance – then the representative of big business – but I will definitely not take credit for it. I'd rather say that the previous government was happy because we had so many Chinese, and the current government is happy both because there are so many Chinese, and because the previous cooperation government also had it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e534	The finance minister said in an article earlier today – I think it was in Odelstinget – that things are going well, everything looks good for Norwegian business, Norwegian jobs, etc. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen did not talk about the starting point when he criticized that not everything had been done in the last period of government. Of course, there are things left to do. That will always do, and the representative Klungland will always be able to climb up here and tell us about things that are still to be done. But the starting point in the autumn of 2001, when the Workers' Party lost the election with thunder and debris, Schjött-Pedersen talks a little about it. He has also not responded to this with the interest rate, which he himself believes is absolutely essential, and of course it is for the Norwegian currency. There is no doubt that the new government went to a covered table, everyone sees it without special insight, as far as Norwegian policy is concerned, but perhaps more in Norwegian business, and what is involved in value creation. There things went forward. We did well, and that's something that we definitely stand by. In the case of Klungland, which is very common in this room. 25 years back in time, I don't think they're so very interesting. It is more interesting that the most well-known interest rate in the time we are working with is still the one under Stoltenberg when that government got a completely necessary redemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e559	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13.ana.ud1054e575	No one has asked for the floor. The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. [[See page 2727]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18, and Stortinget starts negotiations with case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
