ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e65	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow. The representative of Øyvind Halleraker will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e72	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Bent Höie, Peter Gitmark, Kari Lise Holmberg, Svein Flötten and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to investigate the basis and possibilities of realizing a high-speed rail ring in South Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e77	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e80	On behalf of Dagfinn Højbrätten, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself I am delighted to present a Document No. 8 proposals for measures to combat poverty and prevent debt problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e99	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e108	In the worst case, the power crisis in Central Norway may occur as early as 2007 if the water reservoirs in the region are not filled more than the current situation. We're also going into an unacceptable price situation on the force we're using. The bill sent to households in these days shows that the price has passed NOK 1 per person. kWh in parts of the area. I mention this because we can't take care of ourselves so that we both lack power and then apply large electricity bills to households and business. It can't be done! The problem is that there is too little power produced in the area. Until now, the gap between consumption and production has been covered by the transfer of power from other parts of the country. But now the capacity of the network is essentially fully exploited. Strong growth in power consumption in the coming years will give us major challenges and likely problems. Many point out that it is the responsibility of the Government to provide a secure power supply in the future. It is a responsibility of every government, but today's government is in a serious strait because new transmission lines or new production cannot come into place so to speak overnight. But today it is not useful to blame for past government neglect. Now we are facing two main challenges: solving the short-term and more acute situation and solving the longer-term. State networks have estimated that the gap between production and consumption in a year of normal rainfall could reach 9 TWh in 2010. More and Romsdal alone can stand for 6 TWh of this undercover. The reason is the growth of general consumption and a growing industrial venture with large locomotives such as Hydro Aluminium in Sunndal, Hustadmarmor and Worm Lange – in addition to a thriving business life. Regardless of the savings measures that might have to be implemented, it is not possible to meet the need for new power in the area. And we can no longer sit and see that it's not enough power. The three above-mentioned holdings are pure export holdings, which means that it is fateful if production does not go too full for all the hours of the day of the year. We must ensure enough power, and we must ensure power at a price in line with the rest of the country, as a unanimous committee expresses it. The long-term need must be met through production within the region following three main lines. Firstly, the need has to be addressed through the construction of gas power plants. The current government has prepared the ground for this by renewing the concession for the gas power plant at Forest and granting a new concession to the gas power plant at Tent Credits requiring CO2 management. Statoil and Shell's project with the capture, transport and injection of CO2 in the oil fields is very exciting in this context. The government has announced that it will contribute to the CO2 management both here and at other works. Secondly, an intriguing application from Industrikraft Møre for the construction of gas power plants with CO2 management in connection with the activities of Hustadmarmor AS has been reported in advance. Secondly, the Government has announced a large-scale investment in environmentally friendly and new renewable energy. I expect the government's tools, Enova, to have strong attention to bets in central Norway in the coming years. I also expect Statnett to do what is possible to improve the network capacity. The biggest challenge is to ensure energy supply in the period until gas and more renewable energy are in place. Of course, we need to put all the instruments in place to quickly benefit from anincreased effort, production of environmentally friendly power, etc. And then we definitely have to be prepared to put additional power produced in the area when it's not possible to transfer enough power from the areas outside of Middle Norway. So far, it seems that we need to be prepared to deploy mobile gas power plants, possibly also smaller modules of permanent gas power plants. Of course, it is an environmental objective to minimise these mobile gas power plants. And important: the extra costs of such production must be covered over the central network, as an overall committee has expressed it in the setting. Finally, let me stress that it is not understood or accepted that the electricity customers in Central Norway should be charged higher electricity prices than the electricity customers in the country otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e146	The situation in Central Norway is and will be very serious. The power crisis facing the continent can give unacceptably high electricity prices to private consumers and businesses in the region. It will not only affect the individual's private economy, it could also cause the industry to cease its production. An exit might be able to live with the industry for a few days, maybe some of the companies will do a few weeks, but none of the mid-Norway industries will be able to cope with the decoupling for months and years. As a result, value creation and jobs in central Norway may be lost because jobs are moved out of the country, for example. Dubai and China. It may seem that this reality description is shared by all members of the Energy and Environment Committee of the Storting. In particular, it must be for the people of Central Norway to see that an overall committee determines that the introduction of a separate price range in the region is not relevant. This is fully in line with the opinion of the National Assembly of the Progress Party in May this year. A separate price range with significantly higher prices than in the rest of the country will be totally unacceptable. Equally unacceptable, I think it is with a long-term disconnection of power to the industry. Short-term decoupling must only be accepted at short intervals and only if voluntary agreements are concluded with industry to this end. The debate on the power crisis can sometimes give the impression that it is the responsibility of the Council of State, Enoxen, that we have a power crisis in Central Norway. So it's not. The crisis is a result of the growth of consumption driven by the almost adventurous growth of the mid-Norway industry, especially in the North-Møre region. The progress party was one of the two parties that warned already in the last period against establishing the Worm Lange as the only unshore oil project that is not self-sufficient in electricity. SV was the second party. They pointed out that it would be preferable not to expand the Worm Lange because it could force conventional gas power in the region. While the whole last period saw a great growth in consumption and new industrial projects that you knew would need more power, you did little, almost nothing, to generate new power in volumes that would monge. The Progress Party promoted many proposals, but none of them combined the majority's support in this Chamber. The Bondevik government has built up a little new power, but not in as much as the consumption growth has increased. Today’s government parties also showed little willingness in the last period to contribute to increasing power generation. But a proposal and one battle case had in particular the Workers' Party, but also the Center Party and SV, in the last period. It was the common Nordic Green Power Certificates that would provide massive input of renewable energy into the Norwegian power market. Then it is all the more disappointing to see that the government of Stoltenberg has managed to remove this measure as well. But no matter who is to blame, it must be acted upon now. Then I am very happy to see that although Inge Ryan from Nord-Trøndelag stated to the NRK in April that SV will not agree that mobile gas power plants will be part of the solution to counter the power crisis in Central Norway, SV has now accepted that this measure, which is both very expensive and very environmentally hostile, will be used as a measure to reduce the impact of a power crisis in the region. The State and the Government have two regulatory bodies responsible for the power supply in Central Norway. It's NVE and Statnett. Both are crystal clear in their speech and indicate that only conventional gas power can save the continent out of the crisis in the short and medium term. The measures taken by the entire Committee are all very fleeting measures which, from six to twenty years, can help to secure power supply not only in central Norway but throughout the country. However, none of the measures supported by the majority can address the crisis in a year and a half — which will gradually rise three to four years in the future. In this time interval, the government believes it is better with highly polluting mobile gas power plants producing the most expensive power one can imagine – a force that is more than twice as expensive as, for example, wind power. The party of progress, like the NVE and Statnett, is of the strong opinion that gas power stations must be the primary solution to the crisis. Representatives from today's government parties traveled country and beach around in the campaign and promised a new course and action. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in his May 1 speech in Nord-Trøndelag that it was just to stick the spade in the ground. Nothing has happened. Investment decisions have not been taken. Green certificates have been put on ice and have not contributed to a single new investment decision for new power generation in the region, nor to any other location in the country. We have not received any new effective government and no new course. We have received a large and deplorable seminar that has so far not helped to resolve the power crisis in Central Norway at all, but which today presents what I want to characterise – and I will go as far – as some congratulations to the people and industry in Central Norway. One is not willing to use the only means of saving the part of the country from the crisis, namely gas power plants. This just shows that the Soria Moria statement is a road map to the power crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e169	When we from the Right promoted this Document No. The 8 proposal, I said it was an invitation to cooperation both in the committee and in the Stortinget on how to avoid a power crisis in central Norway. Because it's actually not like we have some power crisis in Middle Norway today. In my view, what we are facing is a decision-making crisis, a decision-making crisis when it comes to increasing production in an area where there is no possibility of expanding sufficient transmission capacity until early 2012. In the committee we have had a discussion about the proposals that have been put forward by the Right. Not least, I have invited that we should be able to provide for the implementation of a gas power plant on the Tent Credits. It's actually the only realistic way to avoid a power crisis. There have been various signals from the Government. According to the Energy Act, NVE has granted a concession to Statoil to expand a gas power plant on the Tent Goods, which will involve 7 TWh. On the same day, the Minister for the Environment went out and said that it is completely inappropriate that no cleaning requirements are imposed from the first day at the Tent Goods, but if this is done, the gas power plant will not be able to finish until 2011–2012. We have seen at Kårstø that it is possible to realize a gas power plant in two to three years. You can then finish a gas power plant on the Tent Goods late in 2008/early in 2009, if the Government is acting now. In the course of the debate, I hope that we can establish what is the Government's view regarding gas power plants on the Tent Credits and the requirement for cleaning. The oil and energy minister has been out saying that he can imagine a clean-up period for a few years, so that the gas power plant can be put in place, and then you can set the same requirements for the Tent Goods as at Kårstø, namely that you can clean later. I hope it is possible to get an answer from the Government today whether it is such that it is still assessed to say yes to Statoil's conventional gas power plant with a clean-up period, which the Council of State has been in for. At least there is one measure. Another measure, which would really have helped, was that the green certificates had come into port. They were supposed to come by one alternative before Easter, and they were supposed to come after Easter, and the Passover was late this year, but now we are in June, and so far there has been no concrete thing that has come on the table from the Government. What the rumors are saying is, there could be a couple hundred million extra dollars to get to Enova, by then you're going to put on the fare for most people. This will not be comparable to what the green certificates meant. So here we have a government facing a decision-making crisis in Central Norway. You have the opportunity to avoid this power crisis. We are willing to cooperate, we are willing to take the necessary ceilings to avoid this – and only Nord-Tronde Team E works have ready-to-use renewable projects that can be implemented to avoid a power crisis, over 3 TWh. The corresponding seven-eight Alta power plants are potters. With a 3 TWh gas power plant on the TWh 7 TWh and renewable projects in the North TWh E power plant, one is well aware of the potential lack of electricity within that region in 2008-2009. Then there are certainly many excuses: it will be difficult to complete the gas power plant, it is difficult to achieve this with a clean-up period, it has been difficult with the green certificates, and it is demanding for the Government, because the Minister of Oil and Energy does not agree with the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance on how to design this. But what we're facing is actually a situation where you can get power prices in central Norway that are not acceptable and where you can stand against disconnection. Then you have to act and exercise leadership, and the Council of State has a unique opportunity to show it today. I also take the opportunity to make two proposals. One is on what is also the Committee’s recommendation, which I would like to turn to a proposal relating to ‘The Government recommends that, in the event of a possible power crisis in Central Norway, the additional costs of regulating production must be covered by the central network’. I assume that everyone who has then joined a majority comment will also agree to vote in favour of this proposal in the Chamber. I'll take that as a matter of course. Then it is also constitutionally binding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e188	The representative Børge Burnde has addressed the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e191	Let me start by saying that I agree with the last speaker on one point, and that is that the situation in Middle Norway requires us to act quickly. The smartest thing we can do is we get all the long-term reasonable measures that we can enjoy fast, in Central Norway. Those who think it's just about one thing, those who think it's just about the old dream of being allowed to build polluting gas power plants, they have a bad solution to that question. It's about doing a lot of things. It's about taking all the grips we can for energy saving through Enova in Middle Norway. It's about taking all the grips we can in relation to bioenergy, through all the grips we can in relation to grid enhancement, and everything we can in the area of other renewable energy, such as. wind power, which alone has a high potential in central Norway to contribute, and which can be realized quickly. It is true that when you are in a situation described as a crisis, you can quickly get into a situation where you take decisions that have long-term negative consequences, decisions that you would not have made in a normal situation. We have to avoid that. But, of course, we need to be involved and consider all measures to avoid getting into this situation. The important thing is: do the sensible things quickly! It is no wonder that the members of the Progress Party are concerned about the polluting gas power plants, because they believe that we have no climate problems. They're saying that the climate junk isn't real. If we use mobile polluting gas plants or ordinary gaseous power plants, it doesn't matter to them, because it's not a problem to emit CO2. The members of the Progress Party are in a special position in this debate. We who are concerned that we also have a global environmental responsibility that we should live up to, we who believe that we actually have a responsibility to take care of the environment also for those who come after us, we have a little more difficulty: it is not all the solutions that apply if they lead to a massive increase in pollution. Let me also take a little visit to the representative Tord Lien, who referred to – commendably enough – that SV was among the parties that took up the power situation in Middle Norway when we discussed the issue of the expansion of the Worm Lange. We wrote in the notes at that time: ‘There is also reason to point out that the expansion of the Worm Lange will increase the power consumption by about 2 to 2,6 TWh — in an area that already has a significant undercoverage of force, and where there is already a monthly threat of ration in dry years.’ The members of the Socialist Left Party therefore wanted the impact of the power supply to be investigated ‘before decisions are taken on the Worm Lange’. [[...]] SV's proposal on this fell into the hall, and we voted in favour of the expansion of the Worm Lange. We did that because we thought it was the right project. Here I am back to what I said in the introduction to acting quickly. We didn't think it was just us who had told us that Statnett said on December 22, 2003 that it was facing a power crisis in Central Norway. We actually thought it was something that both the then Minister of Industry and the Minister of Oil and Energy at the time. With regard to the action plan for Central Norway that is now to be presented, we would have faced much better action options if the plan had been presented as a consequence of what was actually said in December 2003. If this action plan had been presented in the summer of 2004 instead of the summer of 2006, it would have had a much simpler job at any time than the current government has in this case. When I hear in this case some representatives of the Right from Middle Norway, it happens that I get an association of elephants: it reminds me of elephants tramping around in a glass house, and it climbs quite violently, as you say. But now leave it. I'm not going to spend any more time on it. We're going to launch all the reasonable measures and get them in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e221	Several years of consumption growth and limited expansion of power have led to Norway being a net importer of power for a year of normal rainfall. Forecasts indicate a growing underbalance in the coming years. The situation in Central Norway is particularly demanding, because the possibility of importing power into the area is limited. Import potential is exacerbated as the force balance becomes more and more strained. The security of supply for Middle Norway is therefore not satisfactory in view of the next five years. The situation is serious. We need both short-term solutions and long-term solutions. The Christian People's Party emphasises the security of energy supply. Energy must be generated in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner. Furthermore, it is important to focus on the diversity of solutions. A single measure will not be enough. We need permanent and long-term measures in the region. We need to reduce the low-efficiency use of electricity. By introducing measures to reduce and streamline energy use, we will have greater environmental benefits on a permanent basis. It is possible to save energy by installing a heat pump. Households, irrespective of the type of heat pump, can then save 20-60 pst. electricity used for domestic and water heating. For Middle Norway this will give a saving of 1.1 TWh. It is therefore important to strengthen efforts in the field of environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and production. We must continue to invest in bioenergy and in waste heat. In Norway, we have a high potential for wind power. In central Norway, we have built three large plants, at Hitra, at Smøla and in Outer Namdal. Several projects have been approved and several have been applied for. There are projects which, on the basis of an overall assessment, should not be developed, but there are also projects which one should be able to develop. It is also important that the Energy Fund and Enova continue to contribute to an environmentally friendly conversion. Furthermore, we believe that we also need to strengthen the basis for more hydropower generation by modernising and upgrading hydropower plants and deploying micro, mini- and small power plants. All these measures involve a commitment to new renewable energy. The Christian People's Party was therefore very disappointed that the Government did not choose to cooperate with Sweden on a green certificate market. This would have meant a lot to the power situation in Norway — and now in central Norway in particular. We've been promised an alternative bet for a long time. It'll wait. Sommel or paralysis by the Government prevents the expansion and investment of new renewable energy in these months. In order to strengthen access to power, we also need to use more domestic natural gas and to invest in gas power plants with CO2 management. Gas power plants with CO2 cleaning can replace different forms of energy production with high greenhouse gas emissions. The construction of gas power plants with CO2 handling on the Tent Goods and in Forests could contribute to a large amount of power to Middle Norway. This isn't easy. It's a big whole that we politicians must be willing to look at. ZERO says in its calculations that it is profitable to deploy gas power plants with CO2 value chains. It is also important to view waste as an energy resource. Norwegian Industry believes that the potential for energy use from waste is approximately 4 TWh in Norway. SFT supports these calculations. It is therefore important that we have a good waste policy, which is also a good energy policy. The last thing I want to mention today is that I think we also need a little review of the Energy Act in view of the fact that today's power regime gives those responsible too little leeway when the crisis builds up. If these different measures are implemented and fully applied, we believe that we can avoid other, worse solutions. For the Christian People's Party, it is totally unacceptable – and we also think it is very unfortunate – whether we get different price adjustments, bets on highly polluting gas power plants or bets on nuclear power. In the case of so-called mobile gas power stations, they are very inefficient and polluting. We need to focus on the environmentally friendly solutions that will have permanent positive effects on the power situation and that will have no very negative environmental effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e261	The recent situation in Central Norway is in many ways a crisis situation that should have been discovered much earlier than is the case. It comes as a consequence of what I see as an unprecedented positive development. We have established one of the largest, most environmentally friendly and efficient aluminiumworks in Europe on Sunndalsøra. It is unfailingly positive to continue Norwegian industrial traditions for decades to come with this type of investment. The Worm Lange represents a technological seven-mile step that is also very important for this country and not least for gas supply, an environmentally friendly gas and energy supply to the United Kingdom. But there should be some questions when, after the type of industrial establishment, which costs a total of between 60 and 70 billion kroner, you discover that you don't have enough power. We live in a country where you need to spend a lot of time filling out applications and running processes to set up a garage in a residential area, but when we talk about this type of large-scale industrial establishment and vital infrastructure, it's obvious that something vital has failed. I think we should take some time to make sure that such things don't happen again. I think that is a good reason to go through the mechanisms, the quality assurance mechanisms that we have, to ensure that the professional authorities take the responsibility that is theirs, that this is not pushed on, and not least that, when the crisis is a fact, measures and proposals for decisions are put in place that can effectively prevent and remedy development. Because it is also true that, although this has now been known for a while, the trade unions have not come up with particularly impressive proposals on how to meet these challenges. Point on the new transmission line downwards to Sogn. For my part, I would say that it is possible it is necessary, but I think at least it is problematic. And I think the estimate you have, that this is going to be done in 2011, at best, is optimistic. We are actually struggling with the energy transport north-south of the country as well. There's a bottleneck further north, and you might be able to take a closer look at the transfer northwards as well. There is considerable energy to fetch, as well as the uncontroversial wind power project along the thunderstorm, especially on Fosen. That's one of my main points. The second thing that's important to be told is that a total accumulation today determines two things. One is that it is not relevant for Statnett to use a separate price range for Trundellag, which turns out to be set up so much as to reduce consumption. We're going to have a roughly equal electricity price across the country, and it's a total mass that's behind it. The second important explanation is that the security of supply in Trøndelag, Middle Norway and More and Romesdal should be as good as in the rest of the country. Tord Lien is quite right when he says that the Middle Norwegian industry cannot tolerate disconnects that last for a long time. It has happened in the past that you have disconnected for a few weeks, for a few months, to get over medical care. It doesn't have to be dramatic, but if this situation persists, we know that a cut-off of an industrial enterprise for half a year or more really leads to a closure because the market is being moved. One of these companies is Orkla Exolone – which was an interpellation about in the Storting just days ago – that produces 30 pst. of the raw material for the solar panels. I want to end by saying that this is a situation that requires action both in the short and long term. I'm not afraid of the measures in the long term. This I think we're going to be able to solve. In the short term, I am pleased that we establish that there is an almost equal price and a good security of supply that applies. And then the government has a great deal of freedom of action to come back with the measures it thinks are necessary to achieve those objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e276	This is an important debate for people both in Mora and Romesdal and in Trøndelag. First of all, I would say that the Left does not see any point in being involved in the discussion about who is guilty of or not guilty of the power crisis we are in in Middle Norway. Both the bourgeois and the socialist parties have wanted an industrial effort in this area, and everyone has to be involved in debt because it is not at the same time enough to secure the power supply. The important thing now is that one gets concrete action that can reduce the risk of getting half or completely black both in the companies and in the homes of this area in 2010, or even before, if we were to have a dry year. For this reason, the Left would like to support the right-wing proposal to draw up an action plan with very concrete measures to avoid a supply crisis in Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal. Although committee members from the government party would not be involved in asking the government to come up with such an action plan now – which I cannot fully understand – I believe we are in agreement. But it has to happen quickly, power isn't created on the spot. It often takes years from planning to production, and we're already far behind. I must first say that I am happy that a committee thinks that most businesses and people in Central Norway are not going to suffer financially through the right price than in the rest of the country in order to reduce consumption. I assume that those who have proposed this have now understood that it will not be accepted, and that a reality proposal to this effect never comes on the table. Punishing people in central Norway for a force-requiring – and for the state an income - industry to be located there would be a proper bombardment. Left wants an action plan that exploits the power potential of Norway. We need at least three thoughts in his head when he's about to be made. There has to be enough power in the short and long term, and one has to use creativity and stimulation to get Norway to have a lot of legs on. And finally, but not least, the concern for the environment must be centered. When there is a crisis — or a strong lack of power — it is very easy to accept the fastest solutions, even if this would lead to pollution. In this context, I hope that the flirting we've seen with nuclear power from the Progress Party's side will be strangled in birth. At the same time, I would remind Right that they need to talk to the rental of these companies to produce the gas power. In fact, they say that it is not even profitable to build the cleaning afterwards. I am sure that with commitment, creativity and ability to take in research and new technologies, Mid Norway – and Norway – can not only be self-sufficient in power, but also become a power supplier out of the country, without damaging the environment. We just have to admit that Norway has been bad at developing and using new forms of energy. In relation to our neighbouring countries, we are in many ways a force-less country. We export gas in bulk to the rest of the world, but we ourselves have not built an infrastructure that makes industrial use of gas possible. We have not exploited the bioenergy that exists in both wood and garbage, instead we allow it to grow again around us. Our Nabolanda operates with several TWhs in bioenergy production. We don't talk about energy saving anymore, it's almost a quad. Similarly, wind power expansion, which has almost stopped, both in places where it makes sense that it is stopped, and in places where an expansion can burden us to become self-sufficient with energy. We haven't come a long way in researching and testing new energy sources either, such as tidal force or wave force. By the way, we see a little run-in to power and environmental innovation now that the crisis mood has come crawling over us. I found it positive what is happening in the environmental technology when it comes to gas power, both the use of CO2 for pressure support for more oil production in the oil fields and the last thing I saw about the research environment at Kjeller, which has found a method to bind CO2 by using olive and water. Then it might actually be a good idea that the biggest source of olive oil in Norway is just in this area where we now have two gas-power concessions and have the biggest crisis. [[The President clubs.]] Maybe this could be a closed solution to the power crisis. I think it should be very difficult to be politicians on the day light is turned off and nothing is done. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e301	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e305	Several years of consumption growth combined with limited expansion of power make us in Norway today a net importer of power in a year of normal rainfall. As a result, the power system has become more vulnerable to precipitation failures. The outlook for continued growth in consumption and the certainty that in the years to come periods of rainfall will come requires that we continue to focus to a large extent on ensuring an acceptable power balance, both nationally and regionally. It is important to work to avoid that such situations have a serious negative impact on the Norwegian economy and on Norwegian households. Mid-Norway has had a very rapid growth in consumption related to industrial development, among others. through the extension of Hydro Aluminium to the Sunndalsøra. For this reason, central Norway is currently the area in Norway with the greatest challenges in terms of security of supply in electricity. There will be further significant growth in the years ahead, including: related to the Worm Lange extension. Since the date of its accession, the government has given high priority to reducing the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply. We have and have had a special focus on the situation in Middle Norway. It is necessary to look at a wide range of measures to improve the power balance in this area. We need tools to address both the short-term situation and the long-term challenge we face. I am now working on an action plan as requested, to address the power situation in central Norway, with a view to presenting the action plan early in the autumn. An important part of the work now being done is to carry out a thorough analysis of the situation in the region in the future, which can provide the best possible basis for assessing the need and scope of the measures to be taken. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has commissioned the NVE and Statnett to work on this, and a number of other analyses carried out will be assessed in this context. Statnet and NVE will provide the necessary basis for the submission of this action plan in a short period of time and are in the process of completing that work. In addition to the work of the analyses, it is also necessary to look at measures both in terms of production, transmission systems and consumption. State networks have an important role to play in the work that is now being done. Statnett is making several major network investments in the area, specifically linked to the expansion of the Sunndalsøra and the Worm Lange extension. State networks are also in the process of preparing and implementing additional investment projects in the region, but it takes time to realise new lines. Increased transmission capacity between Norway and Sweden is planned to be in place in 2009, while any new transmission links – as has been said earlier in the debate – that can cover the increased consumption can be in place around 2012, i.e. significant years in advance. New generation of power is also needed to strengthen security of supply in central Norway, but deployment in the power sector is taking time. It is therefore important that we consider what opportunities exist to provide new production capacity in Central Norway. There is also a basis to put in place more renewable energy production and to launch energy efficiency improvement measures. Renewable energy and energy efficiency are the most environmentally friendly measures available to us, and these will be a high priority for the Government. There are also several relevant gas power projects in the area that can make an important contribution to improving security of supply. In the work now done, we will focus on actions that provide a lasting solution to the power situation in the area. Until longer-term solutions are in place, temporary measures are required, not least if we are in a situation where hydropower generation fails due to low rainfall. I see no need to address more specific measures. The concrete actions will be included in the early-harvest action plan. At the same time as working on an action plan, it is also working on speeding up and launching as many concrete projects as possible to remedy the situation. We are doing this in contrast to the previous government, which neither worked with an action plan nor with concrete measures to remedy the situation in this area. I have to say, in line with previous speakers, that I am a little upset when I hear representatives from the previous government parties speak out. The representative from the Christian People's Party says that you can build gas power plants with CO2 management, and even say that establishing a value chain can be profitable. Why in the world didn't it start in the last period, if it was profitable? They did not lift a finger to get CO2 handling at gas power plants. On the right, an action plan is now required. Statoil promoted its application for gas power plants on the Tjeldbergodden in July 2004. At that time, work on an action plan should also have been started. It wasn't done. Why in the world were you sitting quietly and watching this power crisis approach – without doing anything, without accelerating the treatment when it came to the concession for gas power plants on the Tent Devotion? We're doing this work. We're going to have it in place with the very first, because now it requires action. That action is being undertaken by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e344	The government's own government agencies, NVE and Statnett, state governments, state clearly say there are conventional gas power plants that can save the power crisis in the most sensible way. All the trade unions say that CO2 cleaning and landfilling of CO2 will delay these projects for several years. It becomes increasingly clear that the alternative to building conventional gas power plants is highly polluting mobile gas power plants. Therefore, I ask: will the Government ensure that new conventional gas power concessions are allowed without CO2 management from the first day, if this could lead to the avoidance of a power crisis in Central Norway and the use of highly polluting mobile gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e360	The government looks at all measures that can remedy the situation in Central Norway and will present an action plan early in the autumn. In the meantime, we are working to develop all possible projects, and we are in close dialogue with the developers who have applied for different actions in this area. Statoil applied for a concession for gas power plants on the Tjeldbergodden in 2004. A new project, which is a completely different project, has now been presented to the Dandelberggodden. We are nevertheless in dialogue with them to see if there are any possibilities to make adjustments in that arrangement. We have extended the gas power concession on Forest, and we are in dialogue with Industrikraft Mid-Norway to see if it can be realised and how the Government can contribute to CO2 management. Indeed, the future will not be conventional gas power plants without CO2 management. The future is a gas power plant with CO2 handling. An intensive effort is being made by the Government to put this in place. Work is done at the same time as temporary measures that may be necessary. I underline: it may be necessary to use this area. I don't want to go into either when it's necessary to put in the different measures, or how we do it, because there's going to be a new action plan we're going to present for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e380	First of all, I must say that something positive has come out of this debate and this proposal, that of what the Minister for Oil and Energy has stated, that the Government is now going to present an action plan on how to deal with a future power crisis in Central Norway. That is what my proposal is also about. In this respect, it is a bit surprising that government parties choose to vote against it when it comes to the Grand Duchy, when an action plan is still to be presented – but it is now. The most important thing is that an action plan is presented. The problem is that we have heard before Easter and after Easter, and now it is early in the autumn – early in the autumn an action plan is to be presented. The point is that when Enoch raises his voice and says that it should have been done more before, it becomes a little strange given that that council could have really contributed, that the green certificates had come into place. When will an alternative scheme for green certificates come, so that many renewable TWh can also be realised in Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e387	I have never said that there will be an action plan or a plan for action in Central Norway before Easter. What we have said is that we thought we should have a plan for alternative energy in place before Easter. However, that did not work. It's taken a little longer than we thought. I'm recording that the representative Burnde is now trying to turn the question away from what's really going on, the power crisis in Central Norway. The undersigned is not the only one who has raised the voice of this debate. It's actually starting to be pretty good reason when I'm constantly hearing from the opposition parties that there's a decision-making crisis in the government that makes us no longer than we are. It's actually not like that. From the day one of us, we have been working on a solution in Central Norway. It's urgent to get a solution in mid-Norway, and that's why it also has priority one in my work. It should have been before, it should have been working on an action plan, and it should have been working on concrete measures to put things in place in this area, because it takes time to put in place new power generation. Statoil applied, as I said, in July 2004. It's been a year and a half, and that concession was not completed by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e394	The debate on the power crisis operates with different figures in relation to what the situation really looks like. Statnett says 9 TWh in 2010, and Morene and Romsdal will be at 6 TWh. ECON operates with completely different numbers. The debate is about action, both short-term and long-term – at least I am pleased that the Council of State and the Christian People's Party agree on that. But we also hear that the Council of State has been working on this from day one. I'm not going to count how many days there are, but there's still no official figures on what this crisis involves. Before we have official figures on the extent of this crisis, it is difficult to find measures. It's the government's responsibility to take action, and I'm glad there's an action plan early in the fall. But it doesn't just help to talk -- so what are the official numbers, and when do green certificates come?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e401	The official figures are not quite clear. As I said in my main post, Statnett and NVE are in the final phase presenting the basic material necessary to deploy both short-term and long-term measures in this area. Statnett and NVE were early asked by me to provide that basic material. I understand that the representative will not count the days that I have signed up for from October last year to the beginning of June this year. It's actually far fewer days than the previous government had from the decision to build the Worm Lange was taken, and from Statoil applied for a concession on the Tent God, to the government change in October. In fact, I think we should be able to present an action plan that will meet the difficult situation in Central Norway much faster than the previous government put it. This is in a way a debate where you could have avoided blaming each other, because the situation in Central Norway is serious. The proposal from the opposition parties to promote an action plan is a sensible proposal that was not possible to obtain the basic material we need from the NVE and Statnet within that time. [[President clubs]] I am prepared to cooperate despite what I say in the debate here today. [[The President clubs.]] Cooperation is required, and action is required in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e410	The time frame for lines is 1 minute. The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e417	I wonder if there are limits to affinities in political life, but after following the Right, and especially Børge Brende, his efforts in this matter, I just have to say that unfortunately, it doesn't. This is the story of an early crisis. Everyone knows that to generate new, permanent energy, it takes at least four to five years. When one then pretends that this is a new problem, and that the new government should solve this problem in a few months, it becomes anything but credible, especially when we know that the previous government has no action to take in this matter. On the contrary, we know that they made an active effort to prevent that, for example. given gas power concessions were put into effect. I consider that the former government parties are trying to share the responsibility with parts of the present opposition by referring to the handling of the Worm Lange case. There are certainly many who must share this responsibility. However, the question is whether the Stortinget was given enough information about the situation in central Norway, and not least what would be the consequence of the expansion. However, if Norway sees one thing at a time, there is no need for warnings. I would like to remind you that it was to avoid this situation that the Labour Party went in to build gas power when we dealt with the Energy Communication in spring 2000. Unfortunately, today we have to note that both the premises and the warnings from then on have turned on. I think the next big environmental fight in Norway will be related to the performance of high-rise lines. Such lines, led through vulnerable areas, are major natural interventions, and I think the dawning up uprising you look at the planes, is just the beginning of a new situation. Even if new transmission capacity can help in an entirely acute situation, having a transfer from one area with a deficit to another area with a deficit does not help, which is the situation today. The situation we have in Central Norway today, we are now also getting in Hordaland, where we see that new compressors to the Trollfield will thin out the existing power grid. The situation in Central Norway, in Hordaland – and Norway – is actually the same, namely that we have built up a deficit over several years without taking developments seriously. New generation capacity is required. I think political action is important, and I think a political pressure is important. But when this comes from people who have just sat in government, and who totally waive their responsibility, it's not this populism, it's a scheme to create political contempt in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e434	In this debate, I think most people agree on the description of reality. It also appears in the Committee's position. We also agree that there is a need for substantial measures to avoid a crisis, but it squeaks when it comes to action. The representative of SV Sørensen illustrates this well. The fear of CO2 she illustrates causes gas as a solution to the problem to be trained as far as possible. All other stones shall be turned first. In the committee's position, there is a long list of very good proposals, but the problem is that very many of them are long-term. So we're missing the short-term solutions to prevent the crisis from happening. It is good that we agree with the Storting that one does not want the inhabitants of More and Romesdal and in Middle Norway to have to pay the price of political paralysis, but the best thing would have to be if we had solutions in place to avoid the crisis. So renewable energy is mentioned. Yes, well and good, well and good, but so far the government has not been able to clarify the framework conditions for renewable energy. So we're talking about upgrading and upgrading power plants. Yes, well and good, well and good, but the potential is not exploited. This is an example of Verma power plant in More and Romesdal. They were clearly denied by the NVE to perform an upgrade and upgrade, because they are located in a protected area. These are just words – when we're talking about it and we're not getting done. The problem is that the volume and time horizon are completely ignored by the Government. While stones snuff, time goes by. For every day and every month that goes, there will be one day and one month less to use to put a gas power plant in place. After all, this is going to be a question of whether we are willing to use gas to avoid a crisis. The Council of the NVE, from Statnett, from the County Committee in More and Romesdal, from all the county rapporteurs to the Workers' Party in the region and from very many of the centre party rapporteurs in the region is that we need gas power plants, simply because they see that the only thing that gives enough volume is new power, and that makes one avoid a crisis is gas power plants. Everything else, no matter how good it is, just becomes a supplement. Take professionals seriously! The Minister of Energy says that the future is for gas power plants with CO2 cleaning. The problem is that the challenge is now. Do we accept a power crisis because we have to wait for the future to come up with a solution? The solution of the Progress Party is very clear. We want to accelerate the construction of full-scale gas power plants. There are several potential projects in the region. It has to be possible to do something about the framework conditions for this. We have the "Tjeldbergodden", we have Forest, and then we also have "Fräna", where "Industrikraft Møre" can build a gas power plant at the beginning of 2008. Then we should have looked at how we're going to get these to stick the spade in the earth now, and not turn other rocks all the way because one is afraid that it's going to be one or two years without CO2 cleaning from day one. The alternative is mobile gas power plants, and in the choice between mobile gas power plants and a conventional gas power plant, my environmental recommendation is at least very clear. Then I want a conventional system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e462	I am pleased that the Council of State today signals that he will present an action plan, as Right has asked, even if he is not able to do it now in ours. A number of concrete, short-term measures are urgently needed here. But the most important signal we can give now today is the signal that we are prepared to find long-term solutions that can address the problems we have in More and Romesdal and in Trøndelag, and also in other parts of the country. We have an opportunity to increase the transfer capacity into our area. It is not currant, and it also takes time. Of course, it is also possible to say that we should wait with gas power until we get complete CO2 handling. Yeah, here's a very exciting sketch for an industrial setup, but it's a long time to make decisions about this, and it'll be dangerous to wait so long that maybe we'll get all the eggs in a basket, and then we'll be standing there without a solution in two years' time. An agreement today to the Right's proposal No. 3, that we allow the construction of gas power plants with today's modern technology and the complete purification, is perhaps the most important signal we can send forward. So to the other area that occupied business and population in the region of Central Norway and More and Romesdal very strongly. It is the untimely fact that it is the area that will supply gas to large parts of Western Europe in the future, which will have to pay extra high prices. It should be clear to everyone in this room, and also otherwise, what Right thinks about that matter. With the signals that have come so far, I hope that there will also be support for our proposal No. 2, which is saying that we reject that people in this area are going to pay higher prices than the rest of the country for a period to bring down production. Neither business nor residents are lit up with this, and with the signals that have come, I hope that we will be awarded that proposal at least. I also warmly recommend proposal No. 3, which will be an important signal that the Storting is set to find a definitive solution to the problems of power supply in central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e478	I want to start by saying that I am pleased with the political consensus that the Stortinget has, at least when you say that you should have an approximate electricity price, and you say that you should have a security of supply in Central Norway in line with the rest of the country. However, as the Minister of Oil and Energy has said several times, in this case we have used great words, especially representatives of the previous government. You talk about paralysis and easily substantiate the fact that little or nothing was done by the previous government. It is also pointed out that granting concession to the Tent Goods without CO2 cleaning as a sort of grip, and then the problem is solved. Of course it's not like that. I would like to point out that it was granted concession to Forest, without cleaning. It's a concession that stands by and was renewed in winter. If it had been such that it would have paid off to build a conventional gas power plant without cleaning, you have the opportunity to do so in Trøndelag. I also want to add that those who are Brende's government partners, or possible government partners, have fine-tuned their environmental profile after they left the previous government. Both the Left and the Christian People's Party today appear to be major opponents of all kinds of polluting gas power plants. With what credibility can the representative Burnde, who, both as Minister of Industry and as Minister of Environmental Protection in the previous government, fail to do anything and who is at the same time going to engage in any government cooperation with parties who refuse to go into the path proposed by Burnde, say that the Celt Credit represents the only solution? It seems to me like a mystery. I also want to say that the concession given on Forest should be an important advantage for Forest. This government has said that they want to make arrangements for the forest. One wants to contribute to not only the construction of the gas power plant, but also the installation of this gas power plant with cleaning. This could address the challenges and the power crisis in Central Norway, while providing gas to an entire region, and could lead to significant industrial development throughout central Norway and in the areas around Trondheimsfjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e492	A commitment to renewable energy is necessary. The Christian People's Party has been working for a green certificate market to strengthen the commitment to renewable energy. We are very disappointed that the Government chose not to cooperate with Sweden on a green certificate market. It would have had a lot to say about the power situation in Norway, and in Central Norway in particular. The government has long promised an alternative bet. She kept waiting. It has been, perhaps, action paralysis from the Government that is now preventing the expansion and investment of renewable energy. In order to strengthen energy supply, we need to use more domestic natural gas and gas power plants with CO2 handling. Gas power plants with CO2 cleaning can replace energy forms with higher greenhouse gas emissions. The construction of gas power plants with CO2 handling on the Tent Goods and in Forest could contribute a great deal of power to Middle Norway. If we are to ease the difficult situation in Central Norway, the grid also needs to be adjusted. Developments in consumption have resulted in a reduction in the overcapacity of transmission networks and power generation, thus increasing the need for initial investment. Net investment and maintenance have been low in recent years, and little has been new. Because the grid is so poorly upgraded, we have a transfer loss of between 10 and 12 pst. And up to 30 pst. in cold winters. Multiple network lines will make the situation less vulnerable. With a new backbone network, one could also trigger the wind power potential. It is important to ensure effective competition in the power market. Price increases should not be higher than is necessary, and consumers' interests should be safeguarded. A price range is important and it is not acceptable that, for example: consumers in More and Romesdal pay more for their power than they pay elsewhere in the country. We need to make better use of waste as an energy resource. The Norwegian industry believes that the potential for energy use from waste is approx. 4 TWh in Norway. Energy use must therefore be an important and necessary part of our waste policy and energy policy. In the setting we are discussing today, the members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Government Party, have written in a note that one has registered that it has so far no proposal for a single measure to help prevent a power crisis. The only thing that the government has done so far is to criticize the predecessor, but what is known is not much more power generation. That's why there's an emphasis that we don't have a power crisis so far, but a decision crisis in the government. Therefore, it is important that we have a plan of action to prevent a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e514	As a member of the Business Committee, I think this debate is very important and very interesting. I am very concerned about the challenges facing the mid-Norway industry and industry in relation to the power problem, or the lack of power, that may come in the future. These are very major challenges for the industry, both in Møre and Romesdal, the South-Trøndelag and the North-Trøndelag, which we are now talking about. I want to reinforce what the representative Ola Borten Moe said, that it is totally unacceptable that an expansion of the desired and modern new industry in More and Romesdal in the case of Hydro Aluminium on Sunndalsøra, Hustadmarmor and the Worm Lange plant should be threatened by a lack of power. I would also like to say that everyone who has been involved in the decision-making processes in previous governments until now must be involved and take responsibility. We have to take into account that there has also been a lack of prediction in the treatment of the case by the previous governments regarding power generation in central Norway. There are major challenges also in the South and North Tributes, mainly for existing or traditional power-intensive industries. We have Norwegian Forests in the North Tronde Team in Forests. We have Sødra Cell at Follafoss – we have already lost Elkem in Meråker. It is clear that it is very important for us to also meet the challenges facing those companies, just as we need to ensure security of supply for, for example. Orkla Exolone and Elkem Tamshavn in the South Throne Team. So there are major challenges that need to be solved in this whole area. I would also like to stress that in that situation it is also not acceptable for us to experience that this industry or households in the area have different pricing systems than the other country. It's not relevant with a particular price range, as I understand the committee, and I'm glad. I am concerned that we are going to launch new measures quickly. We have opportunities in Outer Namdal and Fosen with wind power. We have opportunities with gas power both in the forest, which was mentioned by Ola Borten Moe, and on the Tjeldbergodden. I would like to stress that it should not be impossible to achieve a gas power expansion both on the Tent Goods and in the Forest. It should be possible to achieve good cooperation between the various stakeholders who are interested and the owners. Finally, I would like to say that we cannot avoid implementing short-term measures if a crisis arises. Then maybe mobile gas power plants will be needed. I would like to refer to the evening post today, where it is pointed out that it is possible with mobile gas power plants that are environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e525	I think it's very important for Middle Norway that we have this debate in the main hall today. The reason why this is important is that there has been a significant spread of fear and uncertainty between individuals and business. In fact, you wonder if in a few years it'll be dark in the houses, and if all the machines stop. That's why it's good to get this case brought into the main hall and get a proper debate on it, and to get the Minister of Oil and Energy on the field as well. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the opposition is really afraid to talk about paralysis, when you know how little happened in the previous ageing period – despite the warnings that, among other things. SV gave in this case. It's a kind of rudeness that I must say I didn't think I should have heard in the hall. On the other hand, our oil and energy minister, Odd Roger Enoxen, has from the first day in the chair taken up this matter, started working systematically with it to get up some measures to avoid getting into this situation. As the parliamentary leader of SV, I have been briefed by the Minister from the very first day that this was top priority in the Government and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. That is why I believe that when we talk about paralysis, it must be based on misunderstandings. I see the depth of the oil and energy minister's thinking, as it is important not to jump on light solutions, but to create an action plan that will also have a future in it. We know that Norway as an energy country has great opportunities if we take the right action. Only in my possession with Middle Norway do I know that there are a number of plans going on to produce a lot of TWh, both within bioenergy, within garbage, within energy saving, within wind, etc. So I think that when we are presented with the action plan from the department, we will be able to solve the power crisis that might have arisen. I think we should be careful not to jump on easy solutions, but to make choices that are good for the environment and that have a long-term outlook.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e536	Since the Minister of Oil and Energy is now here, I would like to use the opportunity to point out two points. First, both Ola Borten Moe and Olav Akselsen have been in the past. This applies to the transmission lines, which have been one of the solutions to correct the power crisis in central Norway, and which have also required other places. The planned line to go from Sogn, through beautiful and pristine nature and through the countryside, has created great resistance to all places where it is to pass. I understand that quite well. These forcelines do quite a lot of work, both in nature and in the countryside. There are wide streets that seemed very clear in the terrain, and that also often create fear. Therefore, I thought it was time for Norway to take a proper discussion if we would rather see advice to put these power lines in a sea cable, if we were to create a network, so that we could get a good power supply, but cable these. I'm perfectly aware that it's very expensive, but we should take a discussion about it. In addition, as point 2, I thought it was interesting when new solutions came up. Those who have good solutions around our country on how a boat can save power and produce alternative power, I think I should be invited to do. I know about more inventors who have projects that they can't get triggered, because they don't get hearing from public authorities to develop them. We should invite you to join us in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e545	It has been interesting to listen to the debate. As a representative from Central Norway, I am also pleased that there is a unanimous view that the power crisis in Central Norway is very serious in the short term. It was interesting to read the trønder-Avisa at the beginning of January, which concluded some measures that Statnet could have intended to implement. There it was, among other things. pointed to a specific price range. It pointed to gas power plants, and it was pointed out that agreements had to be concluded with the industry to reduce production. I am also pleased that the Stortinget does not want to introduce its own price range in Central Norway, but I could have thought that the government parties had been more clear – and in this debate could also have cancelled – that no action will be taken against the industry that would have to reduce their production. If it becomes one of the measures, I'm afraid that Mid-Norway is experiencing increased unemployment, and that you will also have an increased disembarkation. In this area, the Government has, in my view, been far too vague and little forward-looking when it comes to taking action. Prime Minister Stoltenberg was in my home municipality of Verdal on 1 May, where he said that now it was just putting the shovel in the ground. Well, with respect to reporting, it's a truth with certain modifications. Unfortunately, the current government has not been able to come up with short-term, concrete measures to resolve the power crisis we are facing. I asked Enoxen a question in the questionnaire a short time ago, where I was also concerned with this with green certificates and about the arrangements that the government has announced will be as good as the green certificates would have been. Then the state councils clearly answered yes. It could also have been possible to get some signals from the Council of State about what the new measures actually involve. You've also been in on gas. At my discretion, this is not about either the Tent Goods or the gas power plant at the Norwegian Forest in Forest. That's both of them. We need both of them. Then I think it's a little strange, when you look at the Tent Credit, that there's been a concession, but no emission permit. When will the Government clean up those conditions, and when will the Government provide a clear emission permit also for the Tent Credit? It will be incredibly important to put in place good and short-term measures to prevent a future power crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e560	First, I want to go to the unusual step of giving two good advice to the government parties. The first is that if you had spent the same amount of time and effort solving a potential power crisis in Middle Norway as on blaming the pastors, I think you could have come a lot further to avoid this power crisis. It is a decision-making crisis today. It can be avoided if the correct decisions are taken. The power crisis may occur in 2008-2009, and it does not help to blame Kjell Magne Bondevik in 2008 and 2009. That's a good advice. Secondly, I would also have accepted that invitation to cooperate in order to avoid a power crisis, an invitation we have received through this Document No. The 8th proposal. We see that this is difficult, but we also see two concrete solutions that should be implemented. Otherwise, I must say that I am a little surprised that those who were most bombastic when it came to what was going to happen to a new red-green government in the field of energy policy have such a high flagging today. There were some people who thought that just a red-green government was going to be ready for Industrikraft Mid-Norway's project. There is nothing more clear about a gas power plant in Forest than before. There were some people who thought they would even sit down and talk to Statoil. What's happened? The tent credit was also to be carried out. Even it was supposed to be an industrial power regime, so that the electricity prices would be much lower to the industry. What has happened in that case? It's just a deafening silence. You had a very high flag order that things should be done. It's not surprising that you were critical of the energy policy of the previous government. We heard that every day for four years. But just coming into government, you had to sort out this energy policy. Now it's really hard about it. You're still talking about the previous government. I think one should still have an engagement, but one must have an involvement with one's own government, so that one gets what is necessary to avoid a power crisis, not only in Middle Norway, but also in the country too. There are two things this is really about, two completely concrete things. Firstly, the'scraping' of green certificates has delayed solutions. The possible alternatives, e.g.: an extra ear on the network tariff, which would amount to 200-300 million. kr extra to Enova, is no good replacement. So I hope the oil and energy minister will bring something else than that when it first comes. Secondly, you can say yes to the Tent Goods today. You could say they're going to start a gas power plant that can be completed in two years and that can be cleaned later. Then I would say, for every day that now goes, where you owe to the previous government, it goes one day extra before you realize renewable energy that is potable, and a gas power plant on the Tent God. Maybe the government parties should think about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e577	The Vorskritspartiets Tord Lien suggested in his post that it could be possible to imagine the disconnection of parts of the industry for a short period of time, but I perceived it as not a first wish. I just want to comment briefly: it can't be acceptable to disable industry in More and Romesdal and in Middle Norway without it being under a clear agreement with the type of companies that can withstand this. Whether a person sees a disconnection e.g. Hydro Aluminium, Europe's largest aluminium plant, would ruin their competitiveness and impose heavy costs on them. I think we should be very careful with that technique. So for green certificates: yes, it would have been desirable to get it in place, definitely. But the negotiations with the Swedes showed that they would have charged Norwegian consumers so much on the electricity bill that it was not acceptable for us to go into it. I mentioned in my main post that the electricity price for the customers in parts of Middle Norway has now passed NOK 1. One might think that was enough for most people. Mr. Brende says it's not a power crisis, it's a decision-making crisis. It's commented before, but I want to comment on it. When Børge Brende believes that there is a decision-making crisis, I must almost ask: Should not the decisions to be taken to ensure that we do not have a power crisis in the coming years have been taken in the middle of the period when the representative Børge Brende was in government? One shall neither be an engineer nor an economist to understand that building out power takes time. I am essentially somewhat surprised that the special representative Børge Burnde is throwing responsibility for the situation, the squeeze, which we are now in, at a government that has been sitting for seven months. We don't intend to lean back and wait four years before we trade. I refer here to what the Council of State, Mr Enoch, presented in its main speech. Challenges have been addressed from day one, and there is reason to hope for results, as expressed by the Council of State when referring to the action plan that this proposal is asking for. As you can see, this debate is very good, by putting the spotlight on the situation in Central Norway, which is not going to live with. Just briefly on the proposals that have been made... if the President wants me to take the explanation of vote in connection with the vote, I will do so. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e590	The President shall allow the representative to accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e594	As regards proposal No: 2, from the representative Børge Burnde on behalf of the Right, a formulation has been picked out from a unanimous committee. I think it is very unfortunate if this is promoted as a proposal in order to split a meeting that is now assembled about a grip. We therefore intend to vote against that proposal, pointing out that there is an overall committee behind the fact that the costs of regulating production in the event of a power crisis in Central Norway will be covered by the central network. In the case of proposal No: 3 was also very clear that an action plan is being presented early in the autumn of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e601	It seems to be with the future power situation in Middle Norway that with the weather, everyone talks about it, but no one does anything about it. This has been going on for too long. Many people have to share the responsibility for the situation that has arisen, the industry, Statnett, NVE and not least previous governments and magnification. The current government has also not come up with a solution that can give hope. It was a shame that you gave up getting the green certificates, which also the red-green spoke hot for earlier. It was a pity because many actors were clear about projects that could have been realized. Even if this would not have solved the notified crisis alone, it would have at least given faith that it would be useful to plan. When we don't get the green certificates, we have to wait for a red-green replacement scheme that nobody knows what's going on. Anyway, as many people have pointed out, it's not about taking a simple step to solve the crisis – it's about putting many people into action. Gas power stations are of course highly topical, but due to the debate on the use of gas in recent years, it will be very unfortunate and a great defeat if such works were to be built without CO2 management. The same applies to the use of mobile gas power plants, which will be going in the wrong direction in a situation where all forces have to be deployed to save the climate. The situation calls for a national effort to meet the seriousness that threatens us. That's why it gets a little wrong when it focuses one-sidedly on Middle Norway. This is a national responsibility. A good example of this is the expansion of Norsk Hydro in Sunndal, which is one of the main reasons why the problem will arise. But Hydro on Sunndalsøra is not a local issue either. Hydro itself washes their hands and claims that they have secured the energy supply for their part by expanding into Finnmark and Kårstø. But the problem is that that power cannot be transferred to Sunndal. So the problem and responsibility for solving this is not just in Middle Norway, it's national. An attempt to solve this by imposing greater burdens on consumers in central Norway in the form of higher prices must therefore also be rejected. It is good that the Minister of Energy will present an action plan. We're really looking forward to that. And then we're all going to stop blaming each other -- that's for both sides. We have to put the past behind us, and I guess I heard that, too, Councillor Enoxen says. We've got to get this thing going! This must be done by stimulating the development of small-scale power plants and the upgrading of old ones, the improvement and strengthening of transmission capacity, the development of wind power and the organisation of bioenergy use to a far greater extent than hitherto, and by reviewing the legislation. It's no longer useful to do like the weather. No, it's about doing something about it now!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e621	I had really expected and hoped that the government parties in today's debate had taken advantage of the opportunity to clarify a little how one chooses to think in the future in order to resolve a crisis that gets bigger and bigger for every day that goes. But it's just to take note after all the main figures have been up here, that you've still turned your back towards Middle Norway and looked at the attachment back to the previous government. I can never imagine that the industry, the population or customers in any sense in Central Norway have any reason to feel calm after listening to today's debate. Today's debate really started quite uplifting, with the fact that the case rapporteur clearly stated that we cannot sit and see that there is too little force – I think I quote the case rapporteur quite correctly – we have to solve this through the construction of gas power plants. It's just to agree with the statements of the rapporteur. That he also makes the additional claim that we must be prepared to use mobile gas power plants, just illustrates what kind of corner the new government has chosen to paint itself into. At the same time, you pick massively to look back and criticize the previous government, we just get to take note. But I think that those who had reason to lower their shoulders a little, should return in full readiness once it is made quite clear that even the proposal that is being promoted today by the representative Burnde, where the government “refers to the fact that the additional costs of regulating production, in the event of a possible power crisis in Middle Norway, must be covered over the central network”, the government parties choose to vote against today. Then no one has any particular reason to feel calm. Just said in an in-depth statement here: you say no to a gas power solution that could meet the challenges you face by saying yes to the In-House Good. Even a green certification scheme, i.e. renewable energy solution, has not been able to be put in place after seven months. For the sake of order, there is every reason to also state that even the tissue, as we took out of the protective plan, you immediately put it back in. So to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Olav Akssen, who is wondering if there are limits to decency in political life. Of course, you have to listen to professionals, but I think it must be a little awkward for the Workers' Party's main-talk women and men who traveled around the country and the beach and in many ways won the balance of the necessary votes by promising the industry cheap power. It was so simple: with the will of the red-green parties in this question, the matter would be resolved in an afternoon. Now it's been seven months, and I think you have to turn your eyes and your front towards Middle Norway and not back towards the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e632	After trying to follow up on the debate that has taken place here today, I unfortunately have the following message to give home to Middle Norway: There is no reason to believe that it is currently possible to signal actions that will solve the problems that will arise. There has been a debate that has been very strange, by the fact that representatives of the previous government refer to the current government's paralysis of action, while representatives of the current government indicate that the previous government should have solved everything in advance so that they could have come to the table. I think it's time for both parties to take inwards that there's a common responsibility here. The power crisis we are facing in Central Norway is political. There is a paralysis of action in this room that makes it possible for the inhabitants and industry in central Norway to have problems in the time to come. Rather, we should seize the opportunity here to work together and make sure that the measures are there. The main measure for Middle Norway is that it has been said that it has accepted a conventional gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden. One must not be blinded, as both this and the previous government have done, by future possibilities for CO2 cleaning. In fact, you can't sit down and wait until 2010–2012, while the flow disappears for industry and for the inhabitants, and say that yes, it will soon be CO2 cleaning, so we can solve their problems. Who in the world is it who believes that in the years to come more industrial efforts will be made in Central Norway, when you look at the Storting and the paralysis that this hall shows in order to resolve the power crisis? It can get much faster than what you've thought before, yes, it can actually come back in 2007. It is enough to look at the river basin reports for Middle Norway already for the current year. They're scary, the rainfall is far below normal. Maybe it's time we took inward that it's urgent. Then to the last period. The red-green parties did not promote a single proposal in the previous period that could have prevented this power crisis – not one proposal! In fact, it is rather strange that the Bondevik administration is not the only one to be held accountable for the lack of solutions. In addition, I see another problem. We're probably going to have to connect to mobile gas plants. It is time to make sure that you have this opportunity not only on the Tent Goods but also on the Aukra. Such is the situation today, in Central Norway – or at least in More and Romesdal – it is only on the Tent Goods that mobile gas power stations can be connected. It should also be facilitated at Aukra, and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e655	I will first be informed that the Progress Party will support the Right-wing proposal. We look from experience that promises to get a renewable market in place after green certificates were scrapped by the red-green government have taken so long that there is no reason to trust that notes are enough for the government to take signals from the Storing. We are going to support proposal No. 3 also, even if we wanted the text there to be general, so that anyone who wanted to get a concession would get it without a requirement for CO2 cleaning. In the proposal, it only says the Tent Good. It's a little narrow, but there's also a proposal on the matter we're going to debate afterwards, as we feel it's taken care of. But to show our intention, we will support the Right. Then I was a little provoked by the post of Ryan's representative. He was up and said that it is great with debate, so that we can explain the issue. I've been attacked by the representative Nordtun, energy policy spokesman for the red-green parties, who says that now it's over, now we have to show the power of action, while SV is standing here and saying it's great with debate. He also says that the action lamb that some claim the government shows is misunderstood. So it's been eight and a half months since the Red-Greens got a majority on the Biggest, even though they have a minority in the people. It's been about. 20 months ago the red-greens presented a 155-point plan of everything they agreed on. One would think that the energy crisis in Middle Norway was also resolved there, because it is, after all, a question that has been known for a very long time. In spite of this, no concrete measures have been put forward. There are no framework conditions that have been clarified for the key areas of renewable energy and gas power plants. We can accuse the Bondevik II government of not having done enough. The Progress Party did so throughout the previous period. We promoted a thirty proposals that were voted down by all the other parties. But what measures do the red-green parties have to refer to from the previous period that would make the current situation different? I can't think of anyone, except one, and that was the proposal to introduce a green certificate market from 1. 1st@item: inlistbox ==References== We see how it went. The power of action that the red-greens demand from Bondevik II, they cannot refer to themselves. It is enough to refer to gas power plants – no new investment decisions have been made. No cleaning requirements have been clarified. Gas pipes to Grenland are due to arrive in 2011 at the earliest – probably later. Green certificates have been cancelled, and the industrial power regime cannot be said when it comes. Statnet does not receive any appropriations. The only thing on which there is a reasonable consensus is the imposition of a natural gas tax. There's not much for action! So to the Worm Lange: SV gives itself a lot of credit for that. I've read the setting. What's essentially there is that if the Worm Lange leads to demands for the construction of gas power plants, they don't want it. There's not a lot of other things about countering a power crisis in this region. There I think SV should read its own comments one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e671	I am pleased at the end of the last line of the Council of State to me, that constructive cooperation should be established with the opposition. The Christian People's Party has said that before, and we repeat that we want to be part of it. It's also important that we use available technology and put it together. We know that we have a lot of residues in relation to forestry. We can heat this up. We can stream it, and we can make ethanol out of it. We can win a lot by putting this together. Pre-studies have been carried out, costs have been clarified and can be based on 18 months. It can even be added to Middle Norway. e-consult has investigated this, so here the Council of State has a concrete response to its action plan. I am also pleased that the gas power plant of the future is using CO2 management, as the Council of State expressed it in its contribution today. It is for the future that we are making policies. What we're doing today is for tomorrow's society. The council also had a small greeting to the undersigned in their post, and I think that if he thinks a little about it, he knows that it's not exactly true what he said about not lifting a finger. But now leave it. I want to focus a little on the rapporteur's posts in relation to what he said we have to be prepared to use mobile gas plants. I think it was sad to hear that we are going to prepare to use highly polluting gas power plants that will emit more CO2 per. recovered energy unit than the Danish coal-fired power stations. There will also be large NOX emissions. There is no doubt about it, nor that local pollution will increase. We also know that Statnett said in the previous application that this would be expensive. At that time, the price was between 60 and 70 cents per cent. kWh. Today, the market price of electricity is approx. Forty-two cents per ear. kWh. In my main post I made it clear what is the focus of the Christian People's Party, and I like to repeat it: we need to focus on environmentally friendly solutions that have permanent positive effects on the power situation, and not on the very negative environmental impacts that mobile gas power plants will have. We have to be able to think in the long term and in the short term. We all have a responsibility for this situation we are now facing, for Middle Norway, but also for Norway as an energy nation – a leading energy nation, a nation that has long invested in clean technology in relation to the fact that we have used a lot of hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e699	The debate has highlighted the matter as undoubtedly serious. It's a fact, and it requires a serious treatment. The Council of State has referred to the Middle Norway Action Plan that he will present. It shall highlight precisely the themes that are currently being addressed, and not least clarify some uncertainties in the factual basis that we have per. date. The action plan comes early in the fall, and I think, with respect to reporting for the debate that is now taking place, that there might be reason to wait for this before using the excessive words. It deserves Mid-Norway, and it deserves the serious situation. That's why I'm a little surprised that the opposition now chooses to appear almost as better-witnessed, and when they also use words like that there's not a supply crisis, but a decision-making crisis, it's with respect to report unprofessionally. As an example: in four years’ time, the previous government was able to increase hydropower production in Norway by 1 TWh — not much to boast about. Until last autumn, nothing was done to improve the situation, but now something will be done, and the action plan will come. I was also a little surprised by the Christian People's Party's shooting at the situation if, in the ultimate consequence, one had to choose to use mobile gas plants. It was actually then the Minister for Oil and Energy Steensnæs who, in the last period, took the alternative. That's why I also think that the Christian People's Party should have a slightly sobering attitude to that particular issue if it shows up. Some also point to the scheme of green certificates, as if it were a significant contribution to the situation in Central Norway. It's with respect to notifying also to put perspectives in the situation a little bit side by side with reality. I have great faith in the action plan to be presented by the Minister of Energy in the middle of Norway, and I believe and hope for a constructive opposition, which in a way has spent time until the action plan comes, to take its populist plays, and that they have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e712	The representative Ola Borten Moe has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e715	I have noticed that many from the old government are startled by the fact that the cooperation has been poorly received. So it was the representative Børge Brende who started the dance here today by stating that this was a decision-making crisis, it wasn't an energy crisis. He follows up on saying that the only thing that helps is to say yes to the Tent Goods, so that the expansion can thus start and get started. I was not even aware that it was just that we agreed to the Tent Goods, that the expansion would start automatically. Then a proposal is promoted on which there is agreement throughout the Storting, and then one provokes a disagreement in voting that does not exist – that is, not exactly an invitation to cooperation, but more a construction of disagreement. When it comes to mobile gas power stations that the representative Holten Hemdal was so afraid of, I would say that if they had done their job in the last period, that would not have been necessary. Now we don't have time. And as the representative Solvik-Olsen was in, we don't have time to choose between mobile gas plants and the conventional ones – they're coming!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e726	The next speaker is Heidi Sørensen. The representative Sørensen is currently the last speaker who has asked for the floor. - No, Petter Løvik has signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e729	It was too good to be true that I should be the last recorded speaker. I have registered that several representatives from the Right have been concerned that we from the government fraction have spent too much energy on the previous government. Then I just want to assure them that since we took over, I have not used one kilo-calorie either on the representative Burnde or on anyone else from the previous government in connection with this matter. But I just have to say that I have chosen to use two minutes of my post today to say that I experience representatives from the Right as elephants in a glass house – and it was incredibly good to have it said! I promise that in the future I will not use any more kilocalories to think about this, but use what I have of forces and energy to put in place the good solutions for Middle Norway. Then I register that the representative from the Progress Party has a little difficulty reading the setting about the Worm Lange, and maybe it is a little difficult to accept that we understood the situation in Middle Norway two years ago. We did. That's the way it is. The fact that the Progress Party is unable to take it inwards is their problem. So is it that the measures to be implemented are also about helping people, not just in Middle Norway, but now it's primarily here, out of the trap you've landed in. We have been promoting proposals for measures to help people out of the power trap throughout the last period. We want to get a support scheme for households from the fall, so that people can avoid being so unilaterally dependent on electricity for heating as they are today. There are sensible measures in the long term, and in the short term there are measures that can help people today. I also register that the evening post today has a look-up related to mobile biofuels. And I am pleased to record that Statnett is eager to see if it will be possible to use this. It would be a far better solution than the horror scenarios we've heard about earlier today, about works that are far more polluting. From an environmental point of view, the best thing about mobile gas power plants is that they are swine. This means that the alternatives that may need to be addressed in relation to mobile biofuels also have a very good price margin to go on. Let's hope that we can find more environmentally friendly solutions than mobile gas power plants. So finally, I'm recording that there's been a proposal from the Right that's going to cut out a committee comment and turn it into a proposal. Let me be quite clear: we have no need to instruct our own government, and in that way we almost say that we do not trust them to implement what is in committee. We have that confidence. That is why we are voting against such demonstration proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e745	The next speaker is Petter Løvik. The representative, Mr Løvik, is currently the last speaker who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e748	It has been interesting to follow the debate. I think the seriousness of the situation has gone up for most people. I am pleased that we from the Right, who are proposers, at least get an insight into getting a concrete action plan, even if it is not going to be until the fall. What has disappointed me the most, however, is the constant claims of the current government party, both from the government council and other central people in the three parties, which, once and for all, use most of the time to be blamed on the previous government. But it was now, in this period, we were going to decide on green certificates. But today again the claims are that this will be so expensive for consumers – 15 cents per cent. kWh, said Stoltenberg. I have never seen evidence of these numbers. The truth is, the red-green parts are against the scheme that a multiple of the Storting has previously entered. It was during this period that we were going to make a political decision as to whether we could build gas power plants, for example. on the "Teldbergodden", with today's modern technology and with the demands of the rest of Europe. It's not the previous government and the previous largest majority to say yes or no to this. That's the current big number. Right has a proposal to make today. It's signaled that we'll also get resistance to it. So it's not the previous government, but it's the current government and the large-scale majority that go against this. That's what we were going to do, and from Stortinget's side, we clearly said that we couldn't accept a specific price range, especially high prices, for Mid-Norway. All three governmental parties say that there is no need for an own proposal because it is stated in a note. But most of us have experience that a decision gets a completely different weight than a comment. I'm very disappointed if a collusion isn't for that proposal, but it's signaled that a sad thing isn't. With our proposal for an action plan, we did not add up to confrontation, but to cooperation in the Great Britain to find a solution to problems that could be very precarious for years to come. The most important signal we can give today is that we want to bet on long-term realistic solutions – and we will always be able to handle the interim period in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e757	The next speaker is Asmund Kristoffersen – then Line Henriette Holten Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e760	I thought maybe I should be the last speaker. There have been allegations here that the government parties have used this debate to throw the blame on the previous government. I tried to avoid it in my post as case rapporteur, and tried first of all to describe the situation and, then, measures to get out of the squeeze that all of us sitting in this room are actually in. I would like to make it clear that, in terms of the short-term measures, we cannot exclude, as is evident from what has been said today, and to the extent that the setting of additional power through mobile gas plants can be something to which we have to go. We can't risk it getting dark in houses and homes and in businesses in central Norway. We have that responsibility as national politicians, not just those of us who have been elected from More and Romesdal. Therefore, it is also positive that the Storting put the spotlight on this issue. Then there is a very exciting alternative under development, as the representative Heidi Sørensen said. I believe that we all have obligations to strive for the most environmentally friendly energy sources that we can have in place in time, but I stress what I started my post with: there may be signs that we are already in a situation in 2007 where we have to deal with exceptional measures, and perhaps power from mobile gas plants needs to be put in place. We have to be prepared for such a situation, so this has to be referred to as an alternative. And that's a responsibility we have to take. Then the proposal that has been mentioned here is to allocate these additional costs of any additional production on the central network – yes, we agree on that in the committee! That's what the Right has picked out of the comment that we – also the red-green parties – have put in just to capture that situation. It must then be acceptable also to those who now want to stand on this proposal. They have to understand that this is a position for which the Storting has as a total mass, and do not try to draw it into an interpretation for which there is no coverage. So I really hope that one could draw that suggestion. Then I would like to express that it is not possible that the Storting, and not at all we from the red-green parties, should travel here distrust that the Government implements what is the express wish of the Storting. Therefore, we do not appreciate the kind of ‘trixi’ proposals that have been promoted today. I've seen it sometimes before, but I didn't want to experience it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e780	Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e783	This debate has brought two news. We will have an action plan early in the autumn, and we are looking forward to it from the Christian People's Party. But there has also come another news, perhaps a leak, from the representative Ola Borten Moe. I really don't want to be part of this leak. He said in relation to mobile gas plants that they're coming. This action I had hoped was not on the action plan, and I challenge the Council of State to think carefully through it in the further work. Of course, it is also for the Christian People's Party that everyone should have light in the house. We need to secure light in the houses in an efficient way, in a long-term way and in an environmentally friendly way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e792	Mr. Brende has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e795	I have a comment on the contributions of Mr Asmund Kristoffersen to our proposal, No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The Government recommends that, in the event of a power crisis in Central Norway, the additional costs of regulating production must be covered over the central network.’; I think it's positive that there's a collective committee that says this. But we also know that remarks from the Storting, although there are committee comments, are not constitutionally binding on the Government. We've seen that in previous examples. Among other things, they wanted a green certificate market. It was "scraped" by the government, and you waited a very long time to bring something. By voting in favour of this proposal, we have a guarantee that the Government will have to deal with the Storting, if it wants to have higher power prices in Central Norway than otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e805	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2524]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e821	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e830	The energy balance is undoubtedly an important element in our society, not least testifying to the debate of the last two hours about that. In fact, very much depends on a secure and stable energy supply, not least our own well-being and our own ability to create value. An import need of 7-8 TWh in a normal year is undoubtedly not satisfactory. On the basis of this, Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party on an Energy Policy Action Plan is interesting. But after our assessments, the proposal does not take up anything new in itself, with the exception of one comment from the Progress Party, calling for prejudice in relation to nuclear power. However, the proposal clearly points to one important aspect, and that is that Norway’s overall ability to produce electricity has remained virtually unchanged since 1990 and until now. But the consumption growth that has been in force in the same years, we have gradually developed a negative force balance. From 1990 until now, gross investment in new power generation has also been below NOK 2 billion, while in the period before 1990, gross investment in new power generation was significantly higher. As an example, gross investment in 1980, converted into EUR 10 billion – five times as much investment in 1980 as in 2005. There is reason to reflect a little on why this marked distinction in the level of investment and the cessation of the development of new power generation occurred in the 1990s. This is undoubtedly linked to the introduction of the market mechanism in the form of the Energy Act. It also underlines, in my opinion, that the market does not adequately regulate the relationship between supply and demand, not least in terms of security of supply and price levels, which are part of the basis of the proposal. The proposers also bring forward another element that I agree with – that security of supply with such a high share of hydropower generation is vulnerable, and that vulnerability increases as exploitation progresses. The main question will be whether the current situation can be remedied by an energy policy action plan. It is a fact that, in terms of energy production, there is not exactly a lack of plans, nor debate, but a lack of investment that is the main problem. There are two areas of disagreement in particular. It is pointed out in a comment from the Right and Advance Party that the Government is opposed to conventional hydroelectric expansion. Yes, it's true that the large hydropower expansion time is over, and I want to add that this has been anchored in a broad majority in this room, and it is still. But we are not opposed to exploiting the energy potential of small, mini and micro power plants, nor are we opposed to upgrading existing hydropower plants. When you come to reality, I think the minority will also recognize that this strategy is correct in terms of future exploitation of hydropower generation. By the beginning of 2001, we had a production capacity of 118 TWh. At the beginning of 2005, this increase is 1 TWh to 119 TWh. In practice, this shows that the time for large hydropower expansions is over. Then it is with some wonder that I record that the Right is now especially concerned with conventional hydropower expansion, in the sense that it must mean larger hydropower expansions. Another area to which reference is made is a gas power plant. It is also the case that it is the current government that, with its proposal to build gas power plants with CO2 management, creates a broad majority in this room for the construction of gas power plants. Yes, now even the environmental organisations are for it. This is in stark contrast to the realities of the previous period, where Kårstø did not actually come on the basis of active action by the Bondevik government, but on the basis of what happened in the period before the Bondevik era. Once the government parties have chosen to reject the proposal – because these are the two main areas of the proposal by the Progress Party, which are also supported by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – there are three important reasons for this: Point 1: Government parties have already drawn up guidelines for energy policy in a broad field, with several energy sources involved in the coming years. It is a policy which is firm and to which it is really a broad support in this Chamber. Paragraph 2: There is doubt that an energy policy action plan will contribute to more force. Point 3: An energy policy action plan, as suggested by the minority, can only be interpreted in the direction of wanting new rounds on the construction of conventional gas power plants and the construction of conventional large hydropower plants that will affect protected watercourses. With this background the government parties reject the proposal. I'm a little surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party is actually supporting the strategy of the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e861	The Progress Party supports in this document the proposal that the Government should promote an energy policy action plan to ensure domestic power supplies, both in the short and long term, in all parts of the country. Unfortunately, this proposal by the Progress Party is rejected by the government parties, but on the other hand we note that the proposal is happily supported by the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. In my view, the fact that the proposals of the Progress Party are now being put to the vote by the red-green majority is very unfortunate. On the other hand, this rejection from the red-green very indicative of the likely paralysis of action is marked by the government's energy policy. For several years, the Progress Party has been calling for a much more offensive and effective Norwegian energy policy – unfortunately without having to hear in particular so far. The Progress Party therefore sees the need to put the country's security of supply and energy situation overall into a more comprehensive perspective through an energy policy action plan. We mean, among other things: there is a need to discuss and analyse the societal adverse effects if a dry year occurs and the power situation becomes precarious in Norway. It is important, through an energy policy action plan, to formulate clear energy policy objectives and point to energy policy strategies that, as a whole, can contribute to increasing domestic power generation in order to strengthen the increasingly strenuous energy balance in Norway. The Progress Party believes it is important to increase domestic power generation and make us less dependent on electricity in the future. The result of not wanting to listen to warning voices that have pointed to the need for increased power generation is that we have had an increasingly tight force balance in Norway in recent years. Norway’s power supply is very special in the world context, for Norway collects 99 pst. of electricity consumption from hydropower, and no other country around the world is in the vicinity of being as unilaterally dependent on hydropower as is Norway. The country's unilateral dependence on hydropower makes us particularly vulnerable this year with precipitation failure, so-called dry years. Because it is a great paradox that the world's third largest exporter of oil and gas and the world's sixth largest producer of hydropower, Norway, are now in the unfortunate situation that even in a normal year of rainfall we have become totally dependent on importing large amounts of electricity from Danish coal and Swedish nuclear power plants. In my view, Norway has been resting on the laurels for too long under the Energy Act in 1990. At the time, Norway was an energy policy priority country by deregulating the power market as one of the very first countries in Europe and in the world. Norwegian oil and gas production has increased significantly since the 1990s, but the increase in power production has been marginal since the Act of Energy was adopted in 1990. In 1990, for example, Total power generation in Norway nearly 122 TWh, while at that time only 106 TWh. From 1990 to 2005, however, Norwegian domestic electricity consumption increased by a total of 20 TWh, corresponding to 19 pst. the increase over a 15-year period, while the increase in production capacity over the same period was only around 1/4 of the consumption increase. For example, the increase in domestic power consumption over the decade from 1990 to 2000 was 18 TWh, so power generation only increased by 3.9 TWh. The gap between consumption growth and production capacity has increased dramatically in the last 10-15 years. Such a dramatic deterioration in the power balance suggests that we need a more comprehensive review of the situation in the form of an energy policy action plan, analysing and making visible challenges and solutions to the country’s supply situation. I must say the frustration has now become great in the Progress Party over the government's lack of energy policy action. It's just talking, it's almost nothing. It almost seems that the only energy policy action plan that the Government has is to use as much energy as possible to counter the many proposals of the Progress Party. It's a little constructive energy policy line from the Government. I therefore end by promoting the proposal in the vote by the minority, in which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e878	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e881	First I want to say that I think it is good that we now have a discussion about the Norwegian power balance. The oil and energy minister said the first week after he joined, that one of his most important tasks is to balance power generation in Norway. So far, we have not seen a single concrete proposal on the table from the new government to achieve this objective. That's how a discussion of energy and power in Norway gets a little surrealistic. We are, as also the representative Torbjørn Andersen was in on, the third largest exporter of oil and gas in the world, and we are the sixth largest producer of hydropower in the world. 1 pst. of the gas consumed in Norway is used in Norway, while we are covering the power deficit in the year when it rains little, by importing nuclear power from Russia and coal power from Denmark. But if you say yes to a clean-up period for a gas power plant on the Tent Goods that can help you to avoid a power crisis, we will not be given any clarification. I have asked two questions so far today, in the previous debate. I repeat them now, in the hope that the Council of State in its contribution may at least try to address the questions. I will not turn up expectations too high when it comes to really preserving the questions, but it would have been best if the questions could be answered. Question 1: Isn't it better to say yes to a clean-up period on the Tent Goods, and get it started, so that it can be realized by 2009, than to suggest mobile gas power plants, which emit twice as much CO2 and which have twice as high a price? At least you have to try to say yes to a concession for the Tent Goods first, and then you'll see if it's enough to meet any power crisis. It's kind of dependent on the demand for electricity, and how much it rains, and how we get out in that way. So if the State Council in its statement can answer the following questions: Is that what the Minister for the Environment says, that it is completely inappropriate to open up a clean-up period? Or is it, in fact, that the Council of State, when presenting a proposal for an action plan for the autumn – as a result of a power crisis in central Norway, not a general action plan – also assesses a clean-up period for the Tent Goods? So the second question, which I have asked earlier today, but which I have not received an answer to either. I don't think the chances of getting any answers to that question are getting so much bigger either, because it doesn't seem like the Council of State is obviously very concerned about what's going on from the Parliament's pulpit. – I now record that I have the attention of the Council of State again, and the first question went on the Tent Goods and a clean-up period. The second question, which I asked in the lineword shift, was, when are the green certificates coming? The only thing I got was that it didn't fit to ask about the green certificates in a discussion about a power crisis in central Norway. But I suppose that in a discussion about an action programme to avoid a future power crisis, or to ensure a power balance in Norway, it must be relevant to be able to answer: When will an alternative to the green certificates come? Today’s discussion has also shown that there are many who are now raising their voice by low arguments. In the last period, workers' party representatives ran around and promised that gas power plants would be started on Forest. It has been a little quieter now, but the Prime Minister was out on 1 May and guaranteed that this would happen. So I just wonder, when is this gas power plant going to come? It was also a guarantee that there would be lower prices for the electricity industry. When will this industrial power regime come? You're interested in it at Bjälvfossen, which is facing a possible loss of 100 jobs. And then I wonder what suggestions the Workers' Party had in the previous period would have contributed to that there had been a different situation now. It is a relevant question that was asked by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e899	The debate on the power situation in central Norway earlier today may be an illustration of the longer-term situation in Norway. The energy situation in Norway has changed significantly in the last 10–15 years. From being a country with a surplus of electricity, we currently have a deficit in domestic power supplies. Our electricity consumption is higher than that of hydropower generation this year with normal or low rainfall, and the uncertainty over a power crisis is constantly increasing. The Christian People's Party agrees with many of the initiatives mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration, which the Danish Government has also said on several occasions that the Government is to bet on and follow up. I also see that things in the Soria Moria statement are consistent with what the previous government has worked for. But there is something missing, taking the necessary action to ensure a better balance between power generation and consumption. There is a lack of an overall plan for power supply, and from the Christian People's Party we also lack a little more concrete action by the Government. Not least, we are impatient after the government's long announced investment in new renewable energy, a bet that the government itself has said should be a better scheme than the green certificates would be, and also cheaper for consumers. In order to obtain more concrete measures and actions by the Government, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal for an energy policy action plan to secure power supply in Norway in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e906	There are three main reasons why the Left wants an energy policy action plan. Firstly, it gives the Government the opportunity to clarify what it thinks, and to clear up internal dissatisfaction with energy policy. Secondly, there is a need for planning action in relation to short-term challenges we face both regionally and nationally. And last but not least: there is a need for a plan that focuses on opportunities and challenges in the field of energy policy in a longer-term perspective. In energy policy, there is a need and great potential for increased power generation, and there are great opportunities to save and to better housekeepers with energy. Few countries have Norway’s potential in the energy sector. We can and should in a normal year have net exports of power produced from renewable energy sources and gas power stations without CO2 emissions. If we are to get into this situation, we need decisions that can produce results both in the short term and in the long term. An energy policy action plan can be a useful tool here, and I can assure the case rapporteur, Terje Aasland, that we are together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party to want such a plan, not mean that the four parties agree on all the elements that should be included in such a plan. On the contrary, it is well the case in energy policy that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have been the closest neighbours for long periods of time compared to many things. There have been interesting leaks from the so-called Low Emissions range. These leakages indicate that there are significant opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at affordable costs. It shows that the opportunities we have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are very much linked to our energy policy and to the need for a change in energy policy. Some of the chords remaining from what appears to be the conclusion of the Low Emissions Committee are energy savings, CO2 neutral heating, cap electrification, gas power with CO2 management, small power plants, wind power and other renewable energy production. In view of this and these exciting opportunities and perspectives, there is good reason to follow up with an energy policy action plan, which can provide measures both in the long and short term. I find it disappointing that the government parties do not see that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e928	Norway has very good conditions for energy production. For a long time, our energy sources will be very important for the creation of wealth and wealth. It is therefore a key objective of energy policy to ensure an efficient, competitive and secure energy supply, with sufficient energy supply. This can also contribute to Norway’s strong role in the Nordic and Northern European energy markets. However, several years of growth in consumption combined with a limited build-up of power have led to Norway being the net importer of power today in years of normal rainfall. Imports are estimated to be 7-8 TWh in a normal year today. Norwegian energy supply has thus become more vulnerable to precipitation failures. The vulnerability of the Norwegian energy supply is primarily linked to situations of failure. However, the effect of dry years in the power system depends on several factors. Among other things, it will be crucial whether the failure to comply falls across the Nordic region or only Norway, the size of this failure, and when it occurs during the year. The government presented the main features of its energy policy action plan in the Soria Moria Declaration. As stated in the statement, the overall objective is to facilitate secure and efficient energy supply with acceptable prices for households and industry. This government has taken seriously the lack of production capacity and started the important effort to facilitate the increase in power generation in Norway. Recently, Statoil has been granted an energy concession for a gas power plant on Tjeldbergodden, and Industrialkraft Mid-Norway has been granted an extension of its concession for the construction of gas power plants on Forest. At the same time, the Government has put in place three projects to clarify the design and extent of the State exposure related to CO2 management and the establishment of any CO2 chain. Energy concession and emission permit are a necessary but not sufficient prerequisite for investing in new gas power generation. The decisions on investment in new capacity in the Norwegian power market take place in the light of the company's assessments of the profitability of the projects, and the profitability of each project will depend on a number of factors. For new gas power plants, inter alia: supply of gas, gas prices and future electricity prices are of major importance. In recent years there has been a significant increase in gas prices. The government will also facilitate increased power generation by actively investing in environmentally friendly forms of energy. The Energy Fund and Enova have been the main tools to contribute to environmentally friendly energy conversion. A Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market could not be implemented because a disproportionate proportion of the bill would be placed on Norwegian consumers. The representative Mr. Børge Burnde requests the time when the Government will present the options. I don't want to give a date, but what I can say is that the government has decided that the overall target for renewable energy investment will be increased from the target figure of Enova so far at 12 TWh in the period 2001-2010, up to 30 TWh in the period 2001-2016. It involves a massive commitment to renewable energy, which will help us to ensure the balance of power, along with the other measures that are now being worked on, including: CO2 management at gas power plants. In terms of financing and arrangement on this, I will come back to it on a later occasion, but just to meet Børge Brende to some extent I have at least now signalled the level of ambition of the Government. That's the government's decision in that area. It is also important to work for a well-functioning and secure transmission system. As a transmission system operator, Statnett is responsible for ensuring a timely balance between consumption and production and implementing the necessary investments in the central network, including external transmission links. NVE's income framework regulation and other network regulation, such as: KILE schemes, provide for the transmission system companies to make the necessary investments and maintenance in order to have a proper and well-run network at regional and distribution level. Norway is part of the Nordic and Northern European power market through the transmission links. The development of exchange capacity in the Nordic region and with the rest of Europe is also important for security of supply in the Nordic power market. Furthermore, it is important that the existing transmission capacity is used as efficiently as possible. All Nordic countries assess large investments in the transmission system and Nordic efforts are under way to harmonise rules and methods for better use of the transmission system. The government attaches great importance to contributing to a more diversified and thus safer energy supply that facilitates acceptable prices to the power-intensive industry and society elsewhere. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Government will continue to work to assess appropriate measures in relation to production, consumption and transmission, which can enhance security of supply for electricity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e966	As the Council of State was involved in its intervention, we are all aware that electricity consumption in Norway has increased much more in the last 10–15 years than the expansion of new production capacity. This is a serious development if it continues in the same way in the future. Now, the Soria Moria Declaration indicates that an evaluation of the Energy Act is to be carried out in order to review important parts of the law with a view to change. Now we see that this government is constantly blaming the previous government for the problems that have arisen in the power supply context, but is it that the Government is also blaming the 1990 Energy Act for the situation that has arisen today in terms of power balance deficits, security of supply threats and such things? Is it so to understand that you think that the Energy Act is not appropriate, that you might want to make significant changes to that law and put it up to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e974	The government is already working on evaluating the Energy Act. This does not mean, of course, that the Energy Act should be abolished, and that means that this government, as has been done in the past, has also looked into the need to make adjustments in the Energy Act in order to make it better adapted to the challenges you have at all times within our energy system. So that work is going on. There is no reason to say that the Energy Act has not worked well in a period of great surplus power. It has then provided us with socio-economic and business-economic sensible development. It's also made sure that we've had acceptable prices in this period. This is why the Energy Act does not provide sufficient incentives for, for example: to re-establish production where required. It's among the things we're looking at, but I'm not going to go into the content of the evaluation that we're doing. There is a work going on, and we will come back to the elements of this effort when the evaluation is completed and it is presented to the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e981	I noticed that the Council of State promised that the level of ambition would be the same in the system that is coming – it is no longer time – to replace the green certificates. Can the State Council confirm that gas power stations with CO2 management are part of this renewable energy objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e989	Council of State Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e992	That was the one question, President. I agree that there is every reason not to extend this debate unnecessarily. I probably have an improvement potential there, like a couple of others. So my first question was quite simple and about gas power plants handling CO2 should be included. So that's the second question: is the Council of State still assessing a clean-up period for the Celestial Goods, so that it can be started already in 2009? There should be fairly clear and simple questions to answer to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1004	There were transparent questions. The answer to question 1 is that the ambition level of 30 TWh by 2016 does not include gas power plants with CO2 management. This concerns renewable energy investment and gas is not renewable energy. CO2 management is a way of managing CO2. It will no longer be renewable for that reason. As I said in the previous debate, early this autumn we will present an action plan to address the situation we have in Central Norway. In the work that we are doing there, we assess all possible measures that may be necessary to meet the critical situation we have in Central Norway. Of course, we start by applying the most sensible and long-term measures. These will be started first. This means that, for example: Middle Norway will be given priority in terms of renewable energy investment in the period ahead, in order to quickly put it in place, but it also means that we consider all other measures that may be necessary to respond to the situation. It will be presented in an action plan early in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1022	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1025	President! I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1032	Rolf Terje Klungland will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. So the speakers who are given the floor below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1040	Thank you for that, President! The reason I didn't ask for the floor and waited until now was that when I did it the last day, the president thought I should have a line on Trond Giske. That is why I waited until the Council of State had sat down, before I asked for the floor. I want to take the floor now, because it is clear that in these debates there is a need for someone to describe the story as it is in Stortinget's documents. However, let me first say that I think it is absolutely incredible that the previous government parties – including government councils and state secretaries – are at all afraid to take the word ‘energy balance’ in their mouths. They did absolutely nothing in the last period, and the little things we got after they had first gone a round in the Storting and then had to come back, happened after they had been pulled in the ears of the opposition and of the Workers' Party here in the house. But the reason why I take the floor is the distortion that the opposition makes in relation to the Energy Act. I should therefore quote from the treatment of the Energy Act. Then, in the debate, an energy policy spokesman from the Workers' Party, Ernst Wroldsen, said: ‘In order to ensure that we do not get power shortages due to too late expansion, the Workers' Party considers that State power must be entrusted with a special responsibility to follow up on development, and even build up new power if other actors do not respond in time.’ He also said that with the new Energy Act ‘gets a system that is likely to lead to later expansion than we now have. It is clear that it will be price driven in itself”. On the other hand, the Progress Party, with energy policy spokesman Petter Bjørheim, said: ‘When other parties claim that the new energy law will lead to high power prices, this is a claim that is politically motivated.’ [[...]] Well, then it was the first time the Progress Party heard that the market led to higher prices, but it was not the jam the last time. And yet that party is doing its rhetoric here from the pulpit, and it's asking the Norwegian people to believe that they have some solutions. The Progress Party did not propose a single solution to the energy situation in Norway. What has been important for the Advancement Party is howling and gaping and provoking, and making sure that they came again and again into the minority here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1066	Characteristics think the president is unnecessary from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1069	This is probably an example of how attack is the best defense. But pointing to things that happened in 1991 is so much relevant if you're a historian. But things have happened since 1991 as well, and that is what Klungland does not include in this case. After all, the prerequisite for the functioning of the market is that there is free access both on the production and demand side. On the demand side, we have free access. You can buy electricity – you can expect to be connected to the mains as well – but on the production side there is no free market, because policymakers have slept since 1991 and have said no to virtually all significant power developments. Nor can one be surprised that the market is finally starting to push prices up – when demand increases year after year, but not an increase in supply. There has been more than enough force project presented to the Stortinget, where the Labour Party and the representative of Klungland and the rest of the majority voted against the expansion, or for a halving – at the latest now in Saudi Arabia and Upper Otta. It's a lot of experience. We are not saying that the free market will always deliver the results you want, but it will probably be better than the alternative, namely that politicians should rule. We see that on the electricity charge, it is kept high despite high power prices. But what we saw from the experience of the free energy market was that in the first approx. 10 years were the price level lower than 10 years before the amendment of the Energy Act. In other words, the price level was lower with a free market than with a politician-driven market. But then we have the consequences that we now have problems with the fact that once politicians have thwarted the supply side, prices go up. I won't deny that. This is how the market works. If you don't get to satisfy the demand that is, the prices go on the roof, because then people start to town. Rolf Terje Klungland should also understand that when he sits on the Finance Committee, and then he must understand the mechanisms that work here. Instead of saying that it is the Progress Party that has not understood how a free market works, he must take the consequences of the policy he himself has been with and led in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1079	The debate took a little turn here. But in his last attempt to respond to Klungland, Solvik-Olsen does actually say that he wants it to be free to produce power in this country, just to improve the offer. It's the only mechanism to make it work. And then I think the Progress Party will be quite alone in this room about having that idea of a future energy supply in Norway. It is obvious that regulation needs to be made, and it is obvious that the viewpoint of society needs to be taken into account. It surprises me a little bit that one who is as market liberal as the Solvik-Olsen is, at the same time, can repel for a green certificate market where one takes money from consumers to subsidize the market at the other end. There will be some paradoxes when the Progress Party speaks, as I see it starting to be quite strong. You must glorify this market. In the programme of the Progress Party, it is only about the market. It makes no sense when they allow themselves to wing as they do now, where they say on the one hand that consumers are going to pay, but on the other hand we are going to have a free market without interference. It is good to realise that they do not actually want society to regulate access to production. But it is obviously a problem that the market has not worked. It shows the story from the Energy Act came and up to now, especially when demand is becoming too big. The price will have to be significantly higher in order to obtain a reliable power recovery, and that should also be acknowledged by the Progress Party according to the actual history there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1086	Now I've been in politics – here in the house, anyway – since 1993, so I think I can explain to him the story that Solvik-Olsen is looking for. Let me start by saying that what at least hasn't changed since 1991 is the Party of Advancement on all those who bring results into society so that we have got the society we have. Then he's actually so free that he claims it's not a free market relative to electricity. But there's 12 TWh with gas power that's given a concession that's not built out. There are a number of applications in the department and the directorate in relation to hydropower that have not been stopped. When we managed to achieve half the expansion of Sauda – we wanted a full, but we managed to get a majority for half the expansion – the Progress Party did not do anything. When we've managed to get almost as many GWh from Upper Otta as the Advance Party wanted in the first place, the Advance Party was not involved. What is important in policy is the results of a policy where one has the will and the courage to make some decisions that take into account both the environment and the energy balance. In fact, I believe that the Progress Party should be very grateful for the Soria Moria declaration. They should be very grateful, because now we see that there is a government that has started building a gas power plant to handle CO2. In 1991, climate change emissions were not a problem for the Progress Party either. They blew it and said it was just nonsense. Now the concessions have begun to come. They do the same in relation to green certificates. So they're voting for a system that will lead to us paying about twice as much as the Swedish to get a green certificate market. And the reason why the Progress Party does it – they have written in large-scale documents – is that the industry wants it, and that customers want it. That's the background that they vote for something that they know they're getting into minority. It only has one purpose: to score cheap political points.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1100	There are a lot of 'fucking lies' coming from the representative of Klungland. It is difficult to meet everyone, because most people are so ‘father fetched’ that a person should put them in a context, a person will use much more than the measured speaking time. Let me just remind the representative of Klungland that the decision on the construction of gas power plants was actually taken under the previous government. It is not the honour of the Stoltenberg government that gas power plants are now being built on Kårstø. In the case of renewable energy: there was actually a proposal in the Stortinget from the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, that this should be introduced. The fact that someone then might not understand that this would be too expensive, as Klungland now claims, is a bit clever. But the problem is that it's getting too expensive the government hasn't yet made it clear. They have not been able to produce a single calculation that might indicate that this will be expensive for Norwegian consumers. But a lot of people have come up with calculations that show that this isn't going to be expensive. Then it's Klungland sitting with the burden of proof here, even though he loves to throw out a lot of shit about the Progress Party. It surprises me that the representative from Telemark will present himself as less intelligent than he is. Of course, price levels in Norway are linked to supply and demand. But it is a fact that the first ten years after the Energy Act was passed, the price level of electricity was lower than it was ten years before the Energy Act was adopted. Then we have a situation where the consumption continues to increase, and the expansion has not been able to follow up. Then it is quite natural that the price goes into the weather. But is this the fault of the Progress Party, when all the other parties have wanted to expand less force than the Progress Party has? The Progress Party is not responsible for the Workers' Party and other parties saying no to power development, when the Advance Party says yes. It is then possible that a compromise should be reached in order to participate in a broad majority in order to reduce all power deployments. But it's not the solution if you're worried that industry and households are getting an ever-increasing electricity price. Then one actually has to expand. So it boasts that there are 12 TWh with gas power concessions that you haven't used. But what about all the expansion projects that are not available for concessions they can live with? Mongstad says they can build a thermal power plant in which they get profitability, but without CO2 cleaning from day 1. So that's the assumption. They won't get a concession if you listen to Bjørnøy. The Minister for the Environment has said that there will be no need to grant a concession without cleaning from day 1. In the case of the Tent Goods, cleaning is required from Day 1 even if this has not been completed by the SFT. But their recommendation in the media has been cleansing from Day 1. Will Industriekraft Møre be able to expand without cleaning from day 1? So far, the Soria Moria statement says it's supposed to be cleaning from day one. The fact that you don't like to get any profitability in a sausage bag at Finnmarkswiss doesn't mean there's no profitability in a sausage bag outside Ullevaal Stadium. That's the same thing here. The lack of profitability in a gas power plant at Kollsnes does not mean that there is no profitability anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1122	The President would recommend that representatives assess the choice of words and characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1125	I was not going to take the floor anymore in this debate. At least I didn't intend to take the floor several times in the debate to defend the Progress Party. But the kicks that workers' party representatives have now given to the Progress Party, I really don't think I'm going to. It is claimed by Klungland that the Progress Party has not had a proposal that would improve the energy balance. There is a lot to say about the policies of the Progress Party, but to say that they lack proposals, I do not think that is justified. The Progress Party has had many proposals, many proposals, and I would also like to think that they will make many proposals in the future. And of course, you can discuss how realistic they are when it comes to getting a majority, but it's going to be a little bit different. We are so lucky that in this debate too we have a very competent President. I have also been sitting in this room for a few years – I understand that the representative of Klungland in his post also seemed important to stress that he had done – so when Klungland says that the Progress Party has now been howling, gaping and provoking for all those years, I think it is very timely for the President to shut it down. In the way you characterize others, you characterize yourself the best. I understand that the representative from Agder, and not least the representative from Telemark, who has asked for the floor afterwards, must now raise his voice because it is very little left of the offensive and active food and energy policy that the Workers' Party promised in the previous period. Every day the Storting was assembled, there was some complaint that the then government was not offensive enough. We developed more hydropower over the four years than we did in the 1990s. We worked intensively to get the green certificates in place. And it was also the case that Kårstø, as the representative Solvik-Olsen was involved, was started under the previous government. But the greatest contrast is that everything spoken from the Workers' Party about the industrial power regime is not now mentioned. Gas pipes to Grenland? No, now it's shot until 2011 – if it comes. Industrial power Mid-Norway was to be started with gas from Trundellag. It was a guarantee. It hasn't moved a millimeter. The only thing that has happened is that, in addition to the fact that it was commercially difficult to implement the gas power plants in the previous period due to high gas prices, everything has been required to be CO2 managed, and thus made an additional bill. And so far the government hasn't even determined that in that case it will cover the entire additional bill, so it's become even more expensive to start this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1139	With respect to reporting, I think the representative Burnde is now starting to be a little bold and probably remembers a little wrong as well. It is not easy to claim that it was the previous government that started the construction on Kårstø. With some soberness in the debate, there is no doubt that it was the concession given during the previous Stoltenberg government, which was the reason one had started building on Kårstø last year. A little realism is in its place. Then to Solvik-Olsen and the market. The important thing is that for ten years after the Energy Act was introduced, we had low prices. Then we have now had five to six years with an increasing price level. The problem is that despite a higher price level, it does not trigger the development of new power. That's the main problem. Then you start talking about state contributions, state schemes and incentives to get that power building going, and it's working on it. It is clear that entrusting security of supply to the market alone does not work. It was pointed out by the Workers' Party already at the time of the introduction of the Energy Act, as Klungland has correctly pointed out, where the Progress Party rejected it. But the reality today is that we do not yet have a price level that triggers new power development. That's why we're discussing green certificates. That is why we are discussing other incentives and mechanisms to build up power. That is the reality, and that should be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1146	The representative of Klungland has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1149	It's interesting to note that only during this debate the Progress Party has actually turned from disfellowshipping the previous government to now embracing it. I also register that little brother Right is very interested in getting a good relationship with his big brother. Then I just have to fix something. Is it the fault of the Progress Party that we have a deficit in the force balance? No, but I would like to remind the representatives of the Progress Party that in energy policy, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party have basically come together, but the compromises and expansions, to drag Bondevik II to the ears for something, it is the Workers' Party that has provided. For us, it's the results that are important, not to stand up and roar and not come up with any kind of solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1156	I have to respectfully say that I am very provoked when the representative Rolf Terje Klungland comes into the staging room and almost jumps up on the pulpit and starts to honor and rake down on everything the Progress Party has done in the past on energy policy, and actually performs to claim that the Progress Party has not promoted any proposals. It's as wrong as it might be. As far as energy policy is concerned, there are no parties in this Chamber who have made more proposals over the last eight to ten years than the Progress Party. Representative Rolf Terje Klungland says that he has been here since 1993 and has followed closely what has happened, but he cannot have followed very well when he claims what he claims regarding the Energy Policy of the Progress Party. The Energy Act came up as a theme. There is no doubt that if the certification system had come into place, it would have meant that we had gained more capacity, maybe 24 TWh, in the Nordic market. It would in itself seem to dampen the price. Getting more capacity into a tight power market means that prices go down instead. So here, too, what Rolf Terje Klungland says is highly uncertain. In the light of today's debate, there is no doubt that the Progress Party has promoted several of the proposals discussed in this Chamber today, and with this evidence that we are taking energy policy challenges seriously. We are keenly concerned about the situation facing Norway in the energy context ahead. We know that we have a strained balance of power. It is true that many of the proposals made by the Progress Party for a number of years have just been voted down by the Labour Party and by Rolf Terje Klungland. During the previous period, he joined the Energy and Environment Committee and agreed to vote down several of the proposals of the Progress Party – proposals that would increase the production capacity of electricity in Norway. The representative Rolf Terje Klungland knows that very well is true.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1165	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2524]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1181	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1190	This case concerns two proposals from the Progress Party. One is a proposal that goes against the Government Declaration to build gas power stations without cleaning. The second proposal is that the state assumes full financial and technological responsibility for the development of any CO2 value chain. The large and broad majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Party for Progress and the Right, recommends that these proposals be rejected. The Progress Party and the Right have their own proposals. The majority believe that a greater proportion of natural gas needs to be used domestically, and that this must be done within the framework of our international climate commitments. We have signed and ratified the Kyoto Protocol. It gives us an opportunity for 1 pst. increasing greenhouse gas emissions in relation to 1990 levels. We're now higher than this. We also record that the climate is changing. This is a problem that we have to take seriously. I feel that there is a great deal of agreement on this, also on the part of the Progress Party. It is such that significant parts of this international responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions need to be addressed by domestic measures. Norway, too, needs to take its part. The government's policy is based on the fact that the concessions given are pending. The government will cooperate with the developers on CO2 cleaning and contribute financially to its implementation as soon as possible. The expansion that we are now looking at Kårstø is an example of that. The additional allocation granted by the Stortinget not long ago is a contribution in the same direction. It is also such that new gas power plant concessions are to be based on CO2 removal. This shall be made possible through economic instruments and the deployment of new technologies. Gasification may be one of the main contributions that Norway can make to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. We know that the world's energy consumption will increase significantly in the years to come, and we know that much of this increase will come from the use of fossil energy carriers. If Norway can contribute to the development of a technology that enables the clean-up, transport and storage of CO2, it will make a significant contribution. I would also say on my own account that Norway has a special moral responsibility to be involved in doing this, all the time much of our wealth and good economy comes from rich fossil energy sources from which we extract oil and gas, from which we saw selling abroad. That we then use some of these means to develop technology to solve the problems this creates, I think is good policy. There are also major challenges in coping with the great need for developing countries to increase their energy consumption. So putting this technology into place, as I said, is going to be very important. The government is already running three subprojects to get to this. The government is engaged in initial negotiations with commercial operators in order to achieve the CO2 value chain. Design of the sewage treatment plant on Kårstø is under way. And you're about to map the legal and organisational aspects of a state involvement in the CO2 value chain. There are also great opportunities here, not only in terms of technology, but also in terms of putting in place an economy that makes this something that becomes interesting to other parts of the world. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have a completely different policy in this area and promote it in a rich way through comments and proposals. I expect them to come back to themselves. I will end by saying that we do not want to accept a policy where we are going to buy away from our obligations to make emission reductions solely by purchasing allowances abroad. A significant part of our international climate commitments needs to be resolved through national measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1231	Although the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will do what is possible to achieve a much greater focus on environmentally friendly power and new renewable energy, we believe that there is a need to use the gas for electricity production. Therefore, the red-green government has also renewed the concession at the gas power plant in Forest, and has granted a new concession to Statoil on the Tjeldbergodden with a requirement for CO2 management. The force balance, which we have talked a lot about today, in Norway is such that there is reason to achieve good measures, but we have set the goal of being world leaders in the environmentally friendly use of gas. It obliges the State to participate in instruments that enable such a vision to become a reality. The red-green batches have therefore committed themselves to contributing to CO2 management by the State under the new gas power plant concessions. This is also imperative if we are to have opportunities to achieve the objectives we have committed ourselves to, through the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. I have to say that the Progress Party, with the proposals they are making in this matter, shows an enormous indifference and, in part, a negative attitude towards these commitments. It is also very unfortunate that the Progress Party, without shyness and with wide-open eyes, will throw all economic risks by expanding CO2 management and thus shifting the CO2 value chain to the state partly alone. Experience in other areas where environmental standards have been required shows that the polluter must be confronted with environmental management requirements. Yes, it is even stated in the agreements made at the Johannesburg Environmental Summit almost four years ago, a principle that ‘polluterhall pay’, that is, that the polluter should pay. Both I and the other red-green representatives are invading us that of course gas power plants are not being built in Norway with CO2 management without the state contributing on the economic side to technology development, linked to R & D and more. We now see a happy example of the Tent Goods that the concessionaire Statoil, in cooperation with Shell, aims to build gas power plants with CO2 management, where the purpose is, among other things. is getting more oil from the fields on the base. This shows that the Progress Party, but also the Right, has, in the comments in the Committee setting, considered its disappointment at the Government on a loose basis when they claim that the Government does not have completed expenditure-sharing contracts. No one knows today, neither in this room nor otherwise, what such a bill is going to look like, or what the natural burden distribution is going to be like. The proportion of the country has to be clarified later in the process. This development project on the Tjeldbergodden shows that oil companies can, if they succeed, get heavy economic gains. The diamond of Norwegian oilfields, Draugen, can have a significant extension of production time and provide both the operator Shell and the state with difficult revenues if the injection project succeeds. It has been suggested in the media that life expectancy in the field can be extended by up to 20 years. I have also noticed that the manager of the field, according to an interview in Today's Business, is very enthusiastic about this arrangement. That means that this arrangement has roots in reality, with opportunities for success, and that the Government, through a scheme of close cooperation with the developers and concessionaires, can get to what is the same government vision, and because I understand, also the vision of many of the parties in this room, that Norway will be world leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas. Then I refer to, as the state's case-law rapporteur then excellently explained, the decisions we made in Stortinget regarding economic engagement to get this into port.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1266	The proposal of the Progress Party addresses two important questions of principle. Firstly, we want to clarify the question of cleaning requirements. The Progress Party does not want any special requirements for Norwegian industry, but wants an environmental policy in line with the EU, and we want to develop an action plan to build gas power plants. The need for this has been seen in both of the two issues we have debated just now. The second thing we want to clarify is the state responsibility for the CO2 value chain. We have to clarify the risk, if we're going to get someone to invest in gas power plants where there's CO2 cleaning. The background to promoting the proposal is, of course, the power situation in the country. This is not a proposal where we consider the possibility of using CO2 as an injection on the base. I'm positive for everything that increases Norwegian oil extraction, and if CO2 cleaning is a profitable and good project, I'm going to be the first one to cheer. But I can't in the situation we have now, be on a policy where one puts an end to everything called gas power plants until further notice. The two essential issues that we need to address in this debate are the question of technology and the question of cost. Is CO2 cleaning profitable? Is the CO2 value chain profitable? Yeah, obviously the government and the red-green parties, while business says that per. Today the answer is no. Light Energy says that as long as they are required to clean up CO2 from day one, they will not even come forward with proposals to build gas power plants. If there's anyone who's been driving the use of gas in Norway, it's Light Energy. They have found profitability where others have said that profitability is not possible. In Mongstad, we know that there are plans for a gas or CHP plant. There they say they have found profitability in it, but if there is a requirement for CO2 cleaning from day one, the project is not relevant. We know that at Industrikraft Møre they have a project in connection with Hustadmarmor. They say this can be up and go in 2008. This is very important in view of the power crisis in the area, but it will be a project without full-scale cleaning from day one. The tent credit is lifted up as an example that CO2 cleaning is profitable, because it has Statoil and Shell said. But that's not what they said. They have said that they have given a statement of willingness to work on this, to study if the technology is possible, if there is profitability in it, and if it will result in increased oil extraction. What they also say – Helge Lund was very clear at the press conference – is that the flags we see in front of us are not the goal. That's the starting line. There is nothing today that guarantees that there will be any of that project. If anything happens, Shell and Statoil say that it will be realized by 2011 at the earliest, and that they will require significant contributions from the state. Question 2: Is technology available? Yes, the government parties believe. Yes, the researchers say, on a small scale, but it's not tested on a large scale. That's where the problem lies. We're talking about building full scale gas power plants. Then also needs full-scale cleaning. There are still several technology choices to be taken, as Olav Bolland stresses in a chronicle in the Evening Post. The government itself mentions its clean-up project on Kårstø as a pilot project. I have never heard of a mature project that is referred to as a pilot project. It shows itself that the government says this is something you should study and develop, but not something that is clear. Director of Gassnova, Bjørn Erik Haugan, says in the Technical Weekleaf about CO2 cleaning: ‘We want to support the development of more technologies. There is longer than many believe before emission-free gas power plants are a reality.» So this is Gassnova saying. I think it's worth noting. IFE says the same thing. Kjell Bendiksen warns against building technological dinosaurs. Even in Statoil and in Hydro, they are attacking this haste we have in putting in place CO2 cleaning. According to TV2.no 10 November, Eivind Reiten said he wants long-term research on CO2 cleaning rather than urgent work towards Kårstø in 2009. So we see that the economic and technological risks of CO2 clean-up and management are enormous. So this risk is imposed on the energy companies per year. today. It is the risk that the Party wishes to eliminate, where appropriate, the State taking the risk. The counter-argument we hear is that this can be terribly expensive for the state. Don't we have any idea how much money the Progress Party spends here? Well, and that's the point: if we choose, like the Storting, to keep this requirement, and say that it's going to be too expensive for us to assume responsibility, can we believe that some businesses actually want to take on such a risk, a risk that the Storing does not want? So we're imposing a huge risk on them that the Storting itself is not willing to take on its cloak. If it's as profitable as some claim, it should have been a gold-edge investment that the Storting made right away because there's a lot of income to raise. So to CO2 and climate. We are not subject to CO2 clean-up through the Kyoto commitments. Nor is this proposal a rematch on the Kyoto commitments, as it stands. The Kyoto commitments are firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1335	I address the Right-wing proposal that is referred to in the setting and that we are alone about. I do not know whether the proposal we have with the Progress Party has been taken up. If it hasn't been taken up, I guess I won't do any wrong if I allow myself to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1340	That's what the president thinks is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1343	I think that this question is about how we are going to be able to get both the nation and the world around us – which in many ways we are committed to internationally – a sufficient amount of energy in the future. Everyone in this room is probably very well aware of the increased demand for energy in the whole world that we are facing. That's 60 pst. in the case of growth towards 2030, a relatively well-known figure. That means that the challenge we face nationally, probably is much bigger than what we have so far been willing to take inwards. That is why we support the proposal of the Progress Party today, but with a slightly different approach. It concerns the financing of the liabilities that may relate to CO2 management. We just have to look in the eye that if you have the attitude to this question that the current government parties have, you close your eyes again to the fact that for every day that goes, we become more and more dependent on alternative energy carriers, such as alternative energy carriers. coal power and nuclear power. It is in many ways a game where good things are best for the enemy, when one now with open eyes chooses to go in for a postponement and we are not going to have the same rules in Norway for the construction and operation of gas power plants as the rest of Europe. Whether it's good morals, or whether it's twice as good morals as normal morals that we love exporting Norwegian natural gas to foreign-led companies, we get to be. The fact that we leave the CO2 management to those outside the country who buy Norwegian gas appears at least to me and to the Right as a significant paradox. The right, together with colleagues from the Bondevik II government, took the initiative in its time to get CO2 management done. Here we have seen a preliminary relatively optimistic result, produced by Shell and Statoil, in cooperation with the Research Council. I think most people agree that we're going to have the ambition to solve the CO2 challenge. There is no alternative but to solve the CO2 management. We all know that this is going to take time, and that it's going to cost money. I think most people will agree that the opportunities to solve the challenge of technology are no one that is closer and better able to manage than just Norwegian companies in cooperation with the Norwegian state. Then it doesn't help much that the current government parties establish that they are behind previously granted concessions. We all know that the challenge lies in what kind of economic conditions and what kind of other conditions the given concessions will live under. It does not hold up with a 1st May speech and say that you should stick the spade in the ground, as long as those who have to pay the invoice know that the calculation, despite a safe well received 1st May speech, does not solve the challenge of handling the invoice as such. We believe getting a CO2 solution will be a win-win situation, both for the Norwegian state and for the oil companies that are engaged on the base, but it will take time. In order not to make us even more dependent on the import of coal power and nuclear power, or on – as it appears that the new government is being forced to – implementing so-called highly polluting mobile gas power solutions, perhaps in the action plan that the Council of State advised earlier today, we should be able to realise the opportunities we have to put in place Norwegian gas power plants, which, after all, are profitable, and which will also solve the acute crisis we are facing. Finally, I would like to say that we are separating layers with the Progress Party. We believe that in a win-win situation, it is not only for the Norwegian state, but also for the companies, a requirement that – together with those involved in the main range of research – contribute to the financing of the CO2 challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1381	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The president would like to ask Mr Solvik-Olsen if he – albeit – would like to make some suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1386	I have the exquisite joy of bringing up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1391	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1395	The climate challenge is the greatest environmental policy challenge facing humanity, and the challenge is global. Next year, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will present its third report. The leaks from this report have already begun to reach the news media. It's going to say that you agree more than ever that what we're experiencing now is man-made change. There will also be strong warnings in the report that you need to act faster than you have done in the past. The report will also show that the impacts of climate change that we see are greater than previously assumed. It will also be a readjustment to the fact that they happen faster than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has previously believed. It's not a trifle of warnings we've heard in the last year. Following the ACIA report, there have been new reports confirming what was said there about how fast the changes are going to take place. One of the most challenging things we're facing is that inland ice melts all over the planet. If you just look at Greenland, if the ice in Greenland disappears, the sea level in the world will rise by seven meters. That's what you've thought in the past would take thousands of years. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is seriously adjusting the time horizon. Maybe we'll experience as much as over one meter of ocean rise only in this century. It may not sound much, but for Bangladesh it will mean half of the country. One meter rise in the sea will change the geography from as we already know it. It is this challenge that we have to take seriously, and those who cannot take the global perspective into account in the national and local debate have failed both their international and their national responsibilities. Next year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Brundtland report, which launched the slogan we need more than ever, namely that we should think globally and act locally. The climate agreement of 1997 offers us more opportunities for action, and we can join with other countries in reducing climate change. So let's do that. And we want to do it properly through the pure development mechanism, but we do not want to act internationally in the way that it is going to be about moving allowances forwards as quickly as possible and not putting into action at home. As far as the quota market is concerned, we have learned in winter that this is very unpredictable. We don't know what the allowance price is going to be. Therefore, anyone who wants to pollute – an ordinary gaseous power plant will emit as much CO2 as 600,000 Norwegian private cars – knows that they will receive an extra calculation in terms of allowances. And it's not insignificant. The choice is whether you want to pay this extra bill, for example. by purchasing quotas from Russia or by investing in technology development and industrial development in Norway by developing CO2-free gas power plants. In that case, it will be a strategically incredibly important contribution to the global response to climate change. For me, it's a fundamental choice, and it's a choice that the red-green government has made. It has said that we should not buy everything out there where it is cheapest. We're going to use some of the billions at home to help us develop technology so that we can become leaders and make a big contribution to bringing down emissions globally. The case rapporteur referred perfectly to the fact that we, who have earned our wealth from a great use of fossil fuels, have a special moral responsibility to help solve the problems we have earned us rich in helping to create. There's also a perspective that makes it important for us to bet in that direction. I would like to say once again that when I hear this debate, it would be thought that we who have worked in the environmental movement, we who have worked against polluting gas power plants, have won all the political battles in this room. That's not true – although I should have wanted it many times. What has prevented the presence and operation of gaseous power plants in Norway is that it has not been profitable. Fortunately, we have now reached a political agreement that we should bet on what is environmentally friendly and right for the future, namely the CO2-free power plants. If we concentrate all the forces to do that, I'm glad that there's such a large majority in the Storting today that is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1426	Norway is today a major gas nation. We are among the largest producers and exporters of natural gas in Europe, the largest after Russia. A network of pipelines in the form of pipelines is located on the seabed, from the production site to the market on the continent. Most of the natural gas produced is exported, about 95 pst. The Christian People's Party wants to make more use of natural gas domestically. There will be an important measure in a strenuous power situation, and it will make us less dependent on hydropower as a source of energy. When we use natural gas for energy production, this must be done with gas power plants built on modern technology. The construction of high-carbon gas power plants will make it difficult to meet our international obligations. We must take seriously that the man-made climate change is one of the greatest challenges we face in the world today. We know that poor people are particularly vulnerable to climate change. Norway is obliged under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce our total greenhouse gas emissions for a five-year period from 2008 to 2012. This is just the first step on the way to meeting the global climate challenges. There is a need for much greater emission reductions in the long term, and all countries must contribute to this. Norway must be an international driver for the continuation of climate change work. Therefore, we cannot demand anything less in the construction of a gas power plant than that CO2 handling must be applied from the start. Also, a postponement of the requirement for CO2 management will not be sufficient to promote technology. The central government and Prime Minister Bondevik dropped off on the gas power case. It illustrates the depth of the divisions in Norwegian politics, and not least the importance of the environment for the Christian People's Party. The debate at the time did not focus on whether gas power plants were to be built, but on what technological solutions would be chosen for environmental reasons. At the time, the bulk of the population did not want to demand CO2 management at gas power plants, but the government thought it was irresponsible to have so much greenhouse gas emissions at a time when the world was facing a huge need for greenhouse gas reductions. This need has only increased. Therefore, more batches than at that time should support the requirement for CO2 management now. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has now realised that new gas power plants should have CO2 handling. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, believes that the Soria Moria declaration does not go far enough here. The requirement for CO2 management must also apply to those who have been granted a concession. We are also concerned about what Enoxen calls clean-up periods in the case of the gas power plant at Forest or other gas power plants. A government aiming at Norway becoming a leading environmental nation should set higher targets. It is very positive that Statoil and Shell have now presented a solution for CO2 cleaning at the gas power plant on the Tent Bench. It shows that it is possible to put the gas into service while preserving the environment. It also shows that it is important to make political demands on industry. Without such a pressure, we would hardly have seen such a bet. Several open questions remain, including: with regard to financing. For Statoil and Shell to be able to implement their plans, they provide substantial funding from the State. The Christian People's Party believes that the state must cover some of the extra costs, so that the plan is realized. It is both necessary, possible and profitable. In its studies, ZERO suggests that conventional gas power plants require large subsidies and that only clean-up and use of CO2 can provide profitability. More reports, including: from the Oil Directorate, has shown that with the current oil price, the value of CO2 use will be much higher than the cost of CO2 management. CO2 management requirements will therefore not stop the development of gas power plants but should be a driver.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1486	The left wants the construction of gas power plants in Norway. We've had that position for a long time, and we've been thinking for a long time about assuming that CO2 emissions are either purified or handled in a value chain. This position that we've had over a long time separates us from both the Workers' Party and SV. The working party has long considered that it was a fundamental error to rely on gas power stations to have cleaning requirements from the start. On the contrary, they have said that it will stop the expansion of gas power plants. SV, which now appears to be the newest trailers of gas power plants with CO2 cleaning, had, on its side, combat feeding at their national meeting to change an absolute no to all gas power plants — including those with CO2 cleaning. But it's positive that these parties now completely end up about this position that the Left has had over a long time. Gas power plants can be a valuable contribution to our power generation. CO2 removal is essential for Norway to fulfil its obligations under the Kyoto Agreement. The left also believes that the State should contribute to the deployment of gas power plants without CO2 emissions. It is the intention of the gas power plant to be built on Kårstø. The Stoltenberg government ensured that those building gas power plants on Kårstø were not confronted with requirements for cleaning, and therefore they are in a unique position – where they can also free themselves from being involved in paying the extra costs of cleaning. It complicates the work to reach an agreement, but I hope that it does not put up a hook for the necessary work. It might be interesting if the Council of State decided on the level of ambition he sees that the Government should have in the case of Kårstø cleaning. For some representatives of the Workers' Party have said that the State will participate, while others have said that the State will have to pay the cost. It's a significant ambiguity, and it creates difficulties with such different productions. It could also be interesting to hear the Council of State assessment of progress in achieving CO2 clean-up at Kårstø. It is the gas power plant that is now being built. That's where one gets the first test of whether one can build at the same time as one can help clean up. The Soria Moria statement said we should have clean-up of the CO2 emissions at Kårstø by 2009. That's what we've learned in the course of 2009. Although it is ‘in 2009’, it is urgent to take an investment decision. It is estimated that three years will elapse from a decision to build a sewage treatment plant until it is clear. This means that if you were to make this clear during 2009, the investment decision has to be made during the current year. I think it is at all important for the Government to make its gas power policy concrete – why an ambition for clean-up and participation in this respect in relation to the various projects being presented? And which of these projects seems to be the best way to get a good solution? The left will vote against the proposals that we are dealing with today. It's fundamental across the board from what's our policy. We do not want to be involved in preparing the basis for building gas power plants in Norway without CO2 cleaning. Finally, I want to address another problem related to an established plant. I'm thinking about the Snow White system. It has been granted a concession and it has been granted an emission permit without a requirement for CO2 cleaning, but it has also been stated in the permit that it is necessary to facilitate a connection to sewage treatment plants at a later stage. I believe that this is basically the same situation in relation to Snow White as it is on Kårstø. It might be interesting to hear the Council reflect a little on the possibility that the State engages in dialogue with the developers of Snow White to see what framework conditions are needed to clean up CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1533	There are now several plans for the construction of gas power plants in Norway. Until now, four gas plants have received both a concession under the Energy Act and an emission permit under the Pollution Act. These are located on Kårstø, Kollsnes, Skogn and Melkøya/Snow White. The planned plants may together have a maximum possible power output of approximately: 16 TWh per years. In the case of the concessions granted, the Government's policy is to maintain the concessions and to include the production of gas power in the international allowance system which ensures that the total emissions do not increase. It is such that energy concession and emission permit are a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for it to be invested in new gas power generation. The decisions on investment in new capacity in the Norwegian power market take place in the light of the company’s assessment of the profitability of the projects. The profitability of each project will depend on a number of factors. For new gas power plants, inter alia: the supply of gas, gas prices and the development of future electricity prices are of major importance. In recent years there has been a significant increase in gas prices. So far, only Natural Force, owned by Hydro and Statkraft, has started the construction of gas power plants. The plant located on Kårstø will have a capacity of 430 MW, which, with maximum output, will constitute an annual production of about 3 TWh. It is expected that the gas power plant will start power generation in the autumn of 2007. Industrial power Mid-Norway has a concession for a cogeneration plant in Forest of 800 MW. The power plant may have a maximum annual production capacity of up to 6,4 TWh. Industrial power Mid-Norway AS was recently granted an extension of the concession period and delayed the start-up of the CHP plant. The concession date has been extended to 1 January 2037 and the commissioning requirement is deferred until 1 January 2012. In the case of new concessions, several gas power development plans are available in different parts of the country. Here I would like to mention Statoil and Shell's plans for the use of CO2 from the gas power plant on the Tent Goods for increased oil extraction. The project will involve the use of environmentally friendly gas technology, while getting greater values out of the oil and gas fields Draugen and Heidrun. The companies aim to clarify several aspects of the technological and commercial aspects of the project during 2006. Adequate access to energy is important both for people most in everyday life and for value creation and jobs. The construction of gas power can contribute to a safer power supply. The government will therefore follow closely the developments in the further development of gas power plants. As highlighted in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government, through economic instruments and investment in new technologies, will ensure that new gas power plant concessions are based on CO2 removal. The Government will cooperate with gas power builders on CO2 capture installations and contribute financially to their implementation as soon as possible. The Authority’s commitment to research, development and demonstration of environmentally friendly gas power technologies has increased significantly since the late 1990s. State efforts to develop CO2 management technologies are greater in Norway than in any other country in Europe or North America, in relation to the size of the economy. The aim is to help generate technologies for the capture and storage of CO2 that will be competitive in a commercial market. Furthermore, there have been active efforts within three projects in the last six months to provide the basis for establishing a value chain for the transport and injection of CO2 and to get the clean-up plant on Kårstø started as soon as possible, so that it can be realised within the timetable set by the Government. Gassco is reporting just over pink, where they will present the preliminary results of the first of these projects. This project deals with the entire CO2 chain with the capture, transport and injection of CO2 for increased oil extraction. The aim of the project has been to identify potential sellers and buyers of CO2 and then bring the relevant commercial operators together for initial negotiations on the establishment of CO2 chains. It is intended to ensure the quality of income and expenditure at all stages of the CO2 chain. The identification of the real willingness to pay to these actors will provide an overview of possible revenues in the chain, and thus also the framework for the country’s involvement. With regard to the second project, which is about clarifying the time perspective and the costs of setting up the sewage treatment plant at Kårstø, the NVE is well-informed on the work undertaken in close cooperation with the relevant suppliers of CO2 cleaning technology. NVE will provide an interim report to the Ministry before the summer, based on information provided by the actors. The Ministry is working on the establishment of a legally responsible entity, which may be responsible for the procurement, construction, operation and ownership of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1600	The representative Sørensen's contributions well illustrated why this problem is so difficult for the Government as it is. There was a one-sided focus on CO2 emissions coming from a gas power plant, despite the fact that a gas power plant in Norway would release approx. 1/100 pst. of the world's man-made emissions per year. years. Weekly coal-fired power stations are being opened up in China, and there is a perspective that needs to be set up in relation to a power crisis in Norway. We know that the CO2 cleaning requirement delays gas power plants in Norway if we want to build it as soon as possible. Therefore, the Progress Party says: Run two parallel runs – one for gas power stations that should not be delayed by cleaning requirements, and one for CO2 cleaning, which will receive the same propulsion anyway. We are aware that this proposal is not in line with Soria Moria, but neither is the Government's acceptance of mobile gas plants. And it's important for Middle Norway that Industrial Power Moors can have something in place from 2008. Therefore, I ask: will the Government allow gas power plants to be built, without imposing additional CO2 costs beyond the climate quota system, if it can help to prevent a power crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1621	Firstly, the Government has not helped to delay one gas power plant that is now being built on Kårstø by one hour. The gas power plant shall be in production from the autumn of 2007. The government's ambition, after which we work, is that clean-up should be in place in 2009. Secondly, the Government has also extended the concession for the thermal power plant in Forest so that the developers there can start investing when they have to find a way to make the investment decision. It is also not cleaning requirements that delay that project. So the government has not in any way contributed to a delay in these projects. With regard to the posts of the representative Sørensen, the representative Sørensen is quite right that the most important thing we can do is deal with CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. Gas power plants are not a target, but they are one of several instruments, and greenhouse gas reduction is one of the main objectives of the Government. That is why there is CO2 management at gas power plants, and that is why we have set ourselves a new target of 30 TWh with renewable energy – which is a historical commitment to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1634	I assume that the Council of State in connection with the Prime Minister's 1st May speech in the Nord-Trøndelag has come to the conclusion that the spade is not actually yet stuck in the ground. Has it turned down the Council of State why not the spade is stuck in the ground? Has it failed that high gas prices mean that those paying the invoice do not see that there is profitability in the gas power projects, even without CO2 management? With the government’s CO2 emission management requirements, only a single plant will have an additional price increase of between DKK 8 billion and NOK 10 billion, giving a heavenly distance from the term ‘profit’. Does the Council of State not see that the government's policy only reinforces the current crisis that we are facing more and more? At the same time, does not the Council of State indirectly help to get ahead with what is least desired, namely a mobile or more mobile gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1645	It's a very important recognition Ivar Kristiansen comes here, that the gas price is the biggest obstacle to building gas power plants. It's been many years since the first concessions on gas power plants were given. They were also extended and continued during the previous government, without the spade being thrown into the ground, and without the construction of a gas station. For existing concessions, this government has not made any new demands, either on Kårstø or on Skogn. What we have said, in contrast to the previous government, is that we should contribute to CO2 management at these gas power plants. So there's no new requirements that make it take time to build gas power plants. There are high gas prices, as I have said countless times before, but as representatives from the Right have previously rejected – they have said that it is government policy that has made this difficult. That's not the case. It's the economy of the projects that primarily determines when you can get started. For the projects we are discussing here, no new demands have been made by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1655	The Prime Minister said in a Question Time in Stortinget that he was looking forward to opening gas power plants with sewage treatment plants at Kårstø in 2007. Then I had to tell the Prime Minister that the earliest cleaning plant could be ready on Kårstø was in 2009. And then, hopefully, another prime minister will open it up! My question to the Minister for Oil and Energy is: Can he assure that the decision on sewage treatment plants, CO2 management related to Kårstø, will be taken in the current year, so that one can put sewage treatment plants in place in 2009? And then I have a challenge: the Snow White system emits a lot of CO2. Regardless of which governments have granted a concession and have granted an emission permit, there is an option for a person to return with a clean-up. Will the State Council take the initiative to review what needs to be put in place to clean up the CO2 emissions at the Snow White plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1674	I can assure the representative Kvassheim that this government is very concerned that we are going to get CO2 management at these gas power plants. I appreciate the zeal that representatives of the former government parties have after starting such cleaning as is necessary. It is absolutely right that Kårstø will be a period from 2007 – when this is started – until 2009, as we do not want to have cleaning in place. But we are working to do this as quickly as possible and during 2009. Had the previous government had the same ambition as this in terms of clearing CO2, one could have had it in place at an earlier time. Unfortunately, the previous government did not have it. That damage this government is trying to repair. We are also looking at how we should be able to do this in view of other given concessions where the Government has said we should contribute to CO2 management. As far as the Melkøya plant is concerned, it is quite right that Kvassheim says: there is a prerequisite for assessing this. Of course, we'll also look at the possibilities for doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1690	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2524]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1712	It is a reality that, in part, serious crime is committed without the criminal reacting and being held responsible for his untruths. A group of these are perpetrators with aberrant personality traits that are driving them notoriously committing criminal acts. This group obviously falls between several chairs as today's system works. The problem is that in some cases it is the antisocial behavioral problems that this group has, which are the real cause of their criminal acts, and not the possible psychosis they might have in addition. The health care system will not solve the underlying problem that is there independent of psychosis, and these people will continue their criminal career when they release. In such cases, the healthcare system therefore expects the justice sector to intervene and set limits. On the other hand, the police feel that they do not have sufficient opportunities to deal with this group as it is today. At the same time, the police see that this group obviously has antisocial behavioural problems, and expect the health sector to intervene and solve the problem. Both parties therefore believe that the responsibility lies elsewhere. The result is that society and individuals become victims and suffer loss and damage, and it is difficult to accept that such criminals should not be stopped. We're definitely at a collision course with people's general sense of justice. In this context, the health sector and the justice sector must together identify a system in which the perpetrator receives a response combined with an offer of treatment for his antisocial behaviour. As long as we don't have such a system, the perpetrator also becomes a victim of a lack of power on the part of the authorities. Perhaps it is that precisely limiting is an important element in getting these people on the right course. It is therefore positive that the Government has set up an investigation team to review the rules on criminal inviolability and specific criminal law reactions. I hardly reveal any secret when I say that there are clear expectations for the group, and that there will be proposals from there that will catch up with the group of criminals that I have mentioned. No one can be served, nor the criminal himself, that the reaction is absent, and that the criminal activity is just balling on. It is also quite provocative to hear about the vandals in this group who are pushing a diagnosis in front of them and almost mocking the police who cannot prosecute them. The story in the Evening Post this week of a 37-year-old who escapes punishment with 80 crimes of conscience, 13 so far in 2006, is a new reminder of the difficult situation the police are in. This is about extensive theft and whole-time activity, and society stands powerless. According to the Evening Post, in a 2001 legal psychiatric statement, the man is defined as criminally unreliable without being directly dangerous and can therefore not be forced to treat any kind of substance. That's why the police and the judiciary can't do anything to prevent new crimes. We must only note that in such cases, the applicable criminal law is reduced, because there is no room for coercion against unpredictable ‘only’ being a nuisance. The requirement is that they be perceived as being directly dangerous for the use of forced care or the like. I share the Minister of Justice's view that notorious criminals should be stopped for the sake of society, but even more important for the sake of themselves. There must be some kind of reaction that indicates that borders have been breached. If prison is not the option for this group, then what? The most dangerous unpredictable people are forced to undergo psychiatric treatment, but the rest goes per year. today free. It's unsatisfactory. Could an alternative be that one should be punished with an element of treatment in combination where antisocial behaviour and not other diseases have been driving crime? The point is that you don't have to get out until the measured term is over, and at the same time you get the opportunity to create a new and better future. I don't know if this is the answer, but I find reason to raise the question. In an interview with the Evening Post last Monday, the Minister of Justice calls for the newly reduced special reaction group to propose a legislative amendment that allows criminal law responses even if the perpetrator is unreliable, but at the same time underlines that the conditions should be strict. However, the Minister of Justice is concrete that the sample has to assess whether persistently burdensome behaviour where other measures have not worked should lead to a special reaction. I do not know, of course, what recommendations this group will make, but I will not be surprised if they come forward with proposals for responses and follow-up responsibilities in the form of intermediate solutions involving police, criminal and health and social services on a broad front. I think there will be tasks that go beyond what mental health protection can offer, and that will involve mobilising a wide range of health and social services. There are in this somewhat indignant sea of Norwegian psychiatry and health services meet some of their perhaps most demanding tasks. That's why I've taken up this interview -- not to accuse anyone, but to get a debate on what we can do more, especially from the health care community, and in close interaction with the justice sector. We're now halfway into the 10-year psychiatry escalation plan. Substantial funds have been devoted to upgrading psychiatry in both specialist and primary health services. While the escalation plan in the early years had a particular focus on capacity expansion and building skills in the second line service, more attention has been paid in recent years to upgrading the municipal health service, so that the competence to meet the patient is also required here. At the time of the repeal of the safeguard scheme in 2002, mental health protection was at the same time responsible for the response to the group. These offences were not to be punished, and although psychosis is a common diagnosis among these, it has not been a matter of course that mental health protection has had an offer for them. It is difficult to accept if psychiatry, despite the escalation plan and significant increases in resources in the period from 1998 to now, does not have the power to ensure the follow-up of this group of offenders. Although not all are considered dangerous, it is nevertheless important that they be caught and offered in the field of mental health protection. I think it's important that the judiciary and society are even clearer than they were before, expressing the expectation that the health service will take this responsibility more seriously. The many reports of non-criminal criminals who are almost allowed to develop freely speak for police, criminal services and health authorities to interact even more closely. Although legislative changes may reduce the threshold for the use of mandatory mental health protection, and possibly introduce new forms of treatment, it is necessary to aim to ensure that criminal law is more systematically followed up at the right level by either primary or specialist health services. Good communication between the justice and health sectors is, in my opinion, the key to success, but it is equally important to have the municipality where he lives, of course, on the team. The local authority's service apparatus is most likely to be best suited to coordinate various relief measures and to ensure a holistic follow-up of the individual. However, there is reason to raise a more fundamental question as to who should be responsible for the ability of the healthcare system to follow up criminals who are either subject to mandatory mental health protection or who may be involved in voluntary treatment. If it is the case that an increasing number of places and capacity in psychiatry are occupied as part of criminal law responses and special reactions, this could go beyond the provision of the population elsewhere. Is that acceptable? The answer to this is likely to be no, and therefore it should also be assessed whether the justice sector should not be responsible for ordering and financing the capacity that they are constantly seizing in the healthcare sector, in the same way as the justice sector has a responsibility to build sufficient detention centres and to take the costs of operating them. Finally, I would like to specifically challenge the Minister of Health and Care to comment on this last issue. At the same time, it is important that, in the future, the health system does not appear to be the paralysis of action against a group of criminals who are rightly demanding but who nevertheless require our care and attention. It is not a sustainable strategy to adopt a pending approach to what this working group, which is to look at special reactions, will achieve. Regardless of this work, we need to take action to prevent roll-over uncertainty and improve the supply of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1746	It is an important objective of this government that the provision of health services to the mentally ill must continue to be strengthened. It's been very positive over the last few years, but we're not in the goal. Sickness about the Pedagogical Health Plan has led to many more being offered assistance, the situation is still characterised by long waiting lists and partly overcoating in some parts of the service. The challenge ahead is primarily to improve the quality of the service and to make good the flow and coherence of the various stages of the service. There is also a clear need to strengthen cooperation between healthcare and judicial authorities. However, no matter how good or poor the availability of a service, it will have clear limitations for some groups that are less susceptible to treatment. I am thinking in particular of the group representative Aspaker dealing with today's interplay. It follows from Section 44 of the Penal Code, which the representative and others are certainly familiar with, that offenders who were psychotic or highly mentally retarded at the time of the offence cannot be punished. If these offenders commit a serious criminal offence, as specified in Section 39 of the Penal Code, and there is a risk of recurrence, these can either be sentenced to mandatory mental health protection for psychotic offenders or to mandatory care for illegitimate mentally retarded persons. But a group of unpredictable offenders are being harassed or difficult or especially unenforceable in one of these specific criminal acts, and we do not have good enough offers. We may be in a situation where society can to some extent protect itself against dangerous people, while unpredictable offenders who are a nuisance – but not dangerous – cannot be subjected to a special reaction. Clearly, it's a challenge. I believe that many municipalities make a great effort in relation to this group, but it is not always as easy to find good local solutions. Of course, a complex situation often arises when they are also unwilling to accept treatment and care. One has tried to establish mandatory mental health protection for many of the people we are talking about here, but quite quickly the control committee or the court has written them out, because the conditions for compulsory protection were not present. As the representative of Aspaker knows, this is not a whole new issue. One has assessed several ways of resolving this situation. One proposal has been to amend the Mental Health Act so that such persons can be more coercive. It has been shown that this was not a dangerous path because, among other things. The European Convention on Human Rights sets clear limits on the basis of which a person can be coerced into mental health protection. There is no doubt that we can further lower the threshold for mandatory mental health protection without conflicting with international human rights obligations. In fact, issues related to this group were one of the first issues that both I and the Minister of Justice tackled after we joined. I have asked the Social and Health Directorate to monitor this group, so that we actually know what number of people we are talking about here, and what kind of help and treatment services each needs. This screening, which will be available in a very short time, will provide us with a better basis for deciding what kind of action will be most appropriate for these types of offenders. In parallel with this, I, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, have launched an evaluation of the specific criminal law responses, including ‘judgment on mandatory mental health protection’ and ‘judgment on mandatory care for illegitimate mental retardants’. The evaluation shall be completed by 2007 at the latest. It is, as Mr Aspaker mentioned, that a working group – cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice – has been appointed to assess different aspects of the specific criminal law responses. The first of these working groups to address is precisely the issues that Aspaker addresses in this interview. Based on the monitoring carried out by the Social and Health Directorate, as I mentioned earlier, this working group will assess whether and how the specific criminal law responses can be applied to these offenders. The team shall also assess the right and duty of society to protect themselves against these offenders and shall consider how best to provide them with assistance — if necessary by means of coercion. The working group shall submit proposals for action to unpredictable offenders during the autumn of 2006. Thereafter, the Government will propose any legislative changes or other operational items to the Storting if necessary. In addition to going through the legal basis for what can be done with this group of offenders, we also need to consider different organisational measures. I think here, among other things. in forms of cooperation between police and health services. More stables in the country are quite clear that this does not work well enough per year. today. The Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Social and Health have therefore established a permanent cooperation forum which meets every quarter. That's good. In these days, they conclude a circular on cooperation practices between health services and the police. I would like to stress that it is the police and health services of the individual administrations that are responsible for finding out cooperation procedures that are adapted to the local challenges. For example, one here in Oslo has established a permanent cooperation between police and mental health protection, and in Health Nord, to use another example, has entered into cooperation with the state lawyers in the three northernmost states. It's a very complex problem that the representative of Aspaker travels. It must be seen in the light of individual legal certainty, but also in the light of society's need for protection. Society may never be able to protect itself completely against dangerous or unpleasant people, but we need to provide the framework for the necessary relief measures in different sectors of society – both for individual offenders and for society. I have expectations that the work that is now under way will lead to results which will respond as far as possible to the issues raised in the interpellation. The results of this work will be submitted to Stortinget in an appropriate manner as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1769	I would like to thank the Minister of Health and Health for the answer she has given. It actually shows that we have the same recognition of the problems we're facing very much. We just have to admit that even though we have a health care system that has to be said to be very up-to-date, you meet a group that you still don't have a clear understanding of how to meet. Of course, if people are not motivated to go into these treatment arrangements, etc., it is also very difficult in today's situation to know how to deal with it. This is why the current set-up of the working group is so important. But I still think it is important to mobilise further thinking in the co-operation bodies where the police and health services are now sitting, to see if there are other ways of approaching these people who can help motivate more people to get into treatment. I think it is also necessary to think through whether the treatment arrangements that exist today need to be supplemented by new forms of treatment. It's probably also true, as the Council of State says, that the number itself is not so large, but it's still awfully demoralizing for a police and for a society that sees that even though they're not so many, they're allowed to commit very much and to some extent serious crime. The National Advocate has had a round with the State Attorney's Office and the police officers in 2004, and he sums up in quite dramatic national lawyer's language that this is a group that commits, in part, very serious crime. It's about child abuse. It's about violence against family, and it's about another type of crime that has significant damage to it. So I will again challenge the Minister of Health and Care to dwell around this issue of who will be responsible for rigging the necessary capacity. The Minister of Health and Health sees that the justice sector will have a greater responsibility in the future both to think about capacity-dimensioning and to take part in a financial responsibility to ensure that this type of treatment is put in place and that it is more possible to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1782	It seems like the interpellant and I fully agree on the goal, and it's about a group of people who per. Unfortunately, two chairs are falling. So there's a lot of dilemmas that we're facing, obviously. Firstly, psychotic offenders must also be treated in a dignified and humane way. We know that the punishment has very little preventative effect if the one being punished cannot be blamed for what he or she has done, because they do not know what they have done. It is also important to provide for the protection and needs of society as such in this context. Then it also has to be that they for mental health protection should have a useful function in addition to being a clean storage for psychotic offenders. It must also be such that the treatment of psychotic offenders must be an effective and appropriate use of healthcare. I now have great expectations both for the mapping that has been done, so that we know how many there are – I fully agree that although there are few, it is a huge challenge that we need to find a solution, and that I think it must be possible to find a solution – and for the working group, which is now working very fast. It was set up in April and will present an adjustment early in the autumn. After that, we are going to make operational and quite clear proposals as to what should be done. Then it is also clear that we per cent. Now we're in some situations that, of course, we're dealing with continuously in the best possible way, and we're also using a lot of thinking power, which the interpellant had in mind, in terms of what we can and should do to meet this. I don't want to shoot what the government is going to land on. But it is quite clear that we have to go a lot of new ways, and here both the justice sector and the health system have to be responsible. We have to figure out who is clearly responsible for what, and make sure that those who need to be taken care of are actually taken care of, both for their own sake and for the sake of society. I will not rule out that there may be a need for some new forms of treatment that are a combination of treatment and punishment, when appropriate. Whether we need to build up some new offers, or if we can use some of the existing ones, I will not answer today – we will see that. But I think we must all note that we do not have enough good offers, as the situation is today. It's the government's intention to do something about it, and I'm glad there's more parties in the Storting that seem to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1797	We need to find practical and legal solutions that ensure that our society is protected against dangerous persons, regardless of whether these persons are criminally imputable or not. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health are in the process of doing this. What is becoming central is looking at the risk assessment by the psychiatrists, as well as the kind of treatment that is actually being given. There must be close contact between the police and psychiatry when persons convicted of a specific criminal law reaction are no longer kept in the security department and when they are outsourced by the psychiatry. The need for protection of society must be taken into account. At the same time, one has to take the consequence that these are unpredictable people who need treatment. Under Norwegian law, the person at the time of action who was psychotic, unconscious or mentally retarded cannot be penalised to a large extent. Instead, he may be sentenced to a specific criminal reaction. The new rules on specific criminal law reactions — including detention, transfer to forced mental health protection and forced care — came into force on 1 January 2002, after several decades of investigation. It shows how complex the matter is. The former insurance institution, which meant that unpredictable offenders could in principle be sentenced to protection for any offence, was lifted by the reform. But in practice, there were serious crimes against the lives, health and freedom of others that resulted in security. However, in some cases security was also condemned for winning crimes and for minor cases of violent and sexual crime. Criminal inviolability due to psychosis, high levels of mental retardation and loss of consciousness is regulated, as mentioned above, in Section 44 of the Penal Code. The conditions for the specific criminal law reaction relating to the transfer to forced mental health protection are set out in Section 39 of the Criminal Code, while the implementation of this is regulated by Chapter 5 of the Mental Health Act. In addition to the fact that the perpetrator must be psychotic or unconscious, the following three additional conditions must be met: 1st@item: inlistbox A special reaction is necessary to protect society.2. The offender has committed or attempted to commit a serious crime of violence, a serious fire or any other serious crime that violated the life, health or freedom of others, or could endanger those assets.3. It must be a recurrence hazard. It is the psychological health protection that is required to take responsibility for the implementation of special reactions for unpredictable. Thus, the health service has an obligation to handle the sentence and is responsible for the special reaction being triggered immediately after the judgment is enforceable. Discontinuation of the specific criminal law reaction forced mental health protection is regulated by the penal law § 39(b). The special reaction can only be maintained when the condition of recurrence is fulfilled. There is currently a broad review of the special reaction rules in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In Ot.prp. No 87 for 1993-1994, page 105, it was announced that such back-testing would be carried out on the new rules on indemnity and special reactions after five years of operation. Which is now. In this context, the specific reaction to the transfer to forced mental health protection will be subject to a specific assessment. This will include, inter alia: are considered to be the hazard assessments that are carried out when a person is sentenced to mandatory mental health protection, and the more detailed content of the treatment provision in the field of mental health protection will be assessed. Follow-up will also be considered after cessation of the reaction. I am aware that there is a small group of unpredictable lawbreakers who are acting particularly painfully, without the possibility of a special reaction. It's a family assault. There may be threats and violence against public officials. Extensive acts of warfare, intimidation, and shenanigans are examples of crimes committed by some unpredictable perpetrators. This socially damaging activity by some unpredictable individuals can be a major nuisance to other people and to society. As part of the follow-up check, I believe that the group that is set up will assess what measures can be taken against these types of unreliable offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1837	Society must be protected against offenders, and those who commit a crime must be prepared to do so, either by punishing an sentenced offender or by being sentenced to mandatory mental health protection or care. Now when we're talking about a small group that shouldn't be prepared for what they're doing, this is a group that can actually not only be annoying, but that can ruin the lives of other people – it's a threat. If antisocial behavior is to be a basis for not being prepared for what you do, you might have gotten a little bit far in defining what is sick. If a person is ill and has an illness, he/she must receive help and treatment, and then an appropriate treatment offer must be found. Norway is the only country in the world where health services in prisons are organised under the general health service. In other countries, health services are subject to criminal law. This is, of course, a special challenge, and therefore there are often unclear responsibilities at the intersection of psychiatry and criminal services. When we see that half of the country’s 1,000 long-term prisoners are being treated for mental health problems, a study by the Centre for Safety, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry also shows that one in four short-term prisoners is also receiving psychiatric treatment. It shows that a lot of people who are in our prisons today are mentally ill in some form or another, but at the same time they are punishing them. At the Ila prison, the detention centre and the detention centre, they have a treatment offer for all those who need it, but at the Åna prison, isolation cells function daily as a storage facility for psychiatric patients. These are very unstable people, who sometimes stay in isolates for up to several months without the help of psychologists or psychiatrists, for example. due to problems with the recruitment of professional staff. It is also important for the health service to ensure that there is the right professional personnel in the right place. This violates the right of prisoners to necessary health care, and that is something that the Council of State should take seriously. That is, very many of those who punish, suffer or suffer mental distress during their stay. I therefore assume that the threshold for being declared sick to zone is reasonably high. The study shows that 70–80 of those who zone today should not be in prison. Some of those who commit crimes are so ill that they should not zone, but they must have a heavier and more extensive treatment provision for shorter or longer periods. This offer must be clear when they need it. Despite the fact that we live in a relatively safe and well-functioning society, we see that more and more people are having mental problems. Although most of these are not a danger to themselves and the environment, serious consequences come when someone commits serious criminal acts. People who have committed serious crime and who have been admitted to treatment for their mental illness have repeatedly experienced that they do not receive sufficient follow-up after they have been expelled from the hospital. Psychiatrist Rosenqvist has worked on the heaviest psychiatric cases in Norway, people who have gone so long without good enough treatment that they have become dangerous to themselves and others. She was involved in producing a report in 1998, which had a sad conclusion: only two out of 26 insane killers and other sick and dangerous people were forced to undergo psychiatric aftercare. It also turned out that for those who received treatment it was a failure. So the bet doesn't catch the worst-functioning, those who are potential killers, and you can ask yourself whether this has improved since this report came. There is too much uncertainty about the risk assessment. There is little or no risk assessment research on women and ethnic minority groups. The residence time of psychiatric institutions has been greatly reduced in recent years. Between 1990 and 2003, it was reduced by about 25%. 2 500 days. In addition to patients being discharged prematurely, there are repeatedly patients, several hundred every year, who run away from treatment. This is also a danger to society. There have been repeated failures in the notification procedures between the hospital, the hospital, the police and the municipal health services. Every time a lack of routine or early discharge has led to accidents, we're told that this is where we're going to bet. New practices and money for the psychiatry reform will lead to a proper follow-up for patients, but is that what is happening? The problem is that we cannot see the major improvements in this area – rather the opposite. When the interpellant takes up the problem of criminals who are too sick to zone, but too healthy to be admitted to psychiatric treatment, it suggests a weakness that needs to find a quick solution. Health companies are responsible for those who, because of their psyche, pose a danger to themselves or others, and they must receive the necessary treatment. It can't be accepted that many within this category we're talking about now are falling between the two famous chairs. The community expects mental ill people who commit criminal acts to be taken care of by the authorities. It does little to help those who are subjected to criminal activity that the action has been carried out by a person who is mentally unbalanced. I now hope that the Council of State will address this with concrete and measurable measures, so that we can find a solution for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1870	There are important issues that the interpellant addresses. In this debate, I think it is important to stress that only a small proportion of criminal acts that take place in Norway are committed by psychiatric patients. A central element of the Mental Health Progression Plan is to create greater transparency and understanding of what mental disorders are and what they are not. The media’s repeated focus on what they call ‘ticking bombs’, I believe, contributes to the unfortunate stigmatisation of a group of people who very rarely pose a danger to others. But it is still a fact that some who commit criminal acts also have a mental disorder. Some commit acts of disorder, while others commit serious crime. This interpellation debate is based on crimes committed by people who are criminally unpredictable, without there being a basis for mandatory mental health protection. I record that the Government will carry out a review of the specific criminal law reactions to this group. I would like to encourage the Minister of Health and Care to engage strongly in this work in order to ensure that mental health protection contributes to the better care of the mentally ill – which I also perceive after her posts that she will do. I feel confident that she will follow it up. This will be an important contribution to ensuring the security of society. It is essential that the responses of society to such actions take into account the need for treatment in the first place for many mentally ill people. Such a view is the result of a long humanistic tradition in our legal system. I would like to stress as strongly as I can that criminal-law reactions and special reactions should not be used as a substitute for the necessary relief measures. Liability for mentally ill should not be left to the police and to criminal services because mental health protection fails. For the few who commit repeated criminal offences without a basis for punishment or for mandatory mental health protection, there is clearly a need for cooperation between criminal services and health and social services. We know that it is precisely in interaction between different agencies that we usually find failure in health and care services. The Health Inspectorate’s annual report of 2005 expresses the need for complex services to be provided to persons with a shared and fragmented service. Early intervention and systematic follow-up of persons with severe mental health disorders from the ordinary auxiliaries is the most important measure to prevent dangerous behaviour and crime. It is essential that we prevent people from getting so sick that this in itself triggers criminal acts. The escalation plan for mental health has helped to provide support for more people in the field of mental health protection. Several of the quantitative objectives of the escalation plan are within reach, including the development of district psychiatric centres, the development of organised housing with follow-up and increased treatment capacity. Nevertheless, many people experience a help offer that fails at the core. A recent study by the Social and Health Directorate confirms findings from previous patient censuses, namely that many patients are admitted to psychiatric wards in the absence of a more appropriate follow-up offer locally. If the objectives of a more normalised life for the mentally ill are to be achieved, it is essential that we succeed in building up good local follow-up services. There is probably a need for more organised dwellings than the 3,400 already promised. However, it is at least equally important to fill these dwellings with competent staff who can provide good follow-up and care. The development of outpatient teams will also be an important contribution to the care of mentally ill people who commit criminal acts. Experience so far shows that these teams contribute to increasing the availability of qualified services, so that the patient is given a better professional offer. It is important to note that we do not tolerate the fact that individuals commit criminal acts affecting others, but it is equally important that we do not use criminal law instruments as a poor alternative to the necessary relief measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1894	This has been a debate that has been marked by humanistic thinking and a great deal of consensus in the Chamber, and that is, of course, these kinds of questions served. I want to pick a slightly different angle of incidence than the one that some people have had, maybe also because the humanistic perspective is already well taken care of. I read some time ago a chronicle in the Evening Post of Berthold Grünfeld, where he points out the concern that today you have a system that makes a sharp distinction between the fresh and the crazy. The issue he is raising is whether a disturbed mind should be exempted from punishment. Right away, many people would say that they should. But what I think Grünfeld, who has been a legal psychiatrist for over 40 years, is a credible problem is that we have a tendency to distinguish between two clear groups, the healthy one who kills — a ‘fresh’ killing, if you can say so — and the crazy one who is to be exempted from punishment, because you have to go to ‘galehouse’ because you were psychotic at the moment of the act. The whole idea seems perverted, if I have to be so free to say it. You have to be able to take a distance from any kind of mental state or diagnosis you make of the individual. One problem is that – as Grünfeld also points out in the same article – people who are obviously psychotic also take very clear action after the killing. You remove fingerprints, you run away, you hide, you hide your tracks in the intention not to be taken for the killing you've committed, and then you see in the courtroom without any kind of memory about what you've done – that's highly motivated, rational actions, if you could say so. It raises the question of whether you should not look at the law. Paragraph 44 of the first paragraph of the Penal Code states that if you can use psychosis diagnosis, you should be exempted from general punishment and instead be sentenced to treatment. And that's where Grünfeld says you might have areas -- grey zones -- where you should have found other types of instruments. From my own practice, I have experienced schizophrenic patients, psychotic, manic-depressants in a phase where they were obviously psychotic, and where there is clearly a distinction in behavior between people, who can be partially targeted and malicious, and they know it very well themselves. This makes it appropriate to discuss whether the scope of action is not too narrow. Nils Johan Ringdal wrote a book a few years ago, which was republished in 2004, called the "Gal Man at the Right Time" – an excellent title on the book about Sverre Riisnes, who was the minister of the Nazis during the war, and who, after the war, appeared to be – to say it in good Norwegian – nailed, tense the fervor. The consequence of this was that, at the time of the punishment, he was judged very differently from his colleagues who had largely done the same very wrong thing that he did. In that way he avoided punishment. There is therefore no reason to believe that we in the Norwegian community today do not have a number of other people who do the same as Sverre Riisnes, namely that suddenly you don't remember any of the world's things, which gets legal psychiatrists – it also acknowledges Berthold Grünfeld, who has 40 years of practice in this area – to declare them psychotic. Then they get a short treatment in a psychiatric institution, where they really don't have anything to do with it, and then you say you don't have any treatment to give them, and then they're out in the community again, and, I'll say, with laymen, with attitudes and with behaviors that make them dangerous. It makes them dangerous as very many other so-called healthy are, simply because they lack the common barriers you should have in order not to engage with your fellow human beings. This means that what you need to ask here, and for which I think it is a common recognition, is first of all resources for the use of instruments that are more differentiated than what we have today, and also that when we put in the resources, we organize it in a way that allows the individual to get a rehabilitation, get a treatment chain, whether in prison or outside prison, in a home or in an institution that is adapted to the individual's needs. It also means that when using experts, they have to be used in a sense. I myself have been present in a trial as a witness, and I became quite perplexed as to how the legal psychiatric experts could put general discretion completely out of power through the diagnosis they made. It affected the trial in an unfortunate way, in my view, because you didn't get the usual discretion in and the common sense to consider how to secure society. But I have no idea that this hall is not capable of doing this in a good way, and I think the Council of State has also given a good account. Minister of Justice Knut Storberget has indicated that we should also look at the law, and it seems reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1909	I thank the interpellant for traveling an important but difficult theme. Society must respond to criminal acts and the response must reflect the seriousness of the action. If this does not happen, the trust in the state of law will be confused. It is important that the consideration of the victims of crime is given considerable importance both during the investigation, in the trial and when the penalty is to be measured. At the same time, it is a fundamental principle of Norwegian criminal law that unpredictable persons should not be in prison. In the legal state of Norway, the reaction and the penalty are also adapted to the health status, situation and life experience of the perpetrator. For me and for the Christian People's Party, it is important that justice policy is also based on such a humane and reflective approach in the future. So today, as we hear, there's a small group of unpredictable lawbreakers who are acting very painfully. They steal, fight and heal, make fights, and some plague others by blotting. However, the persons we are talking about have not yet committed such serious criminal acts that they can be condemned for a specific criminal act. In my opinion, it is worrying that there is often no response to this group at all today. Last spring, the Justice Committee of the Bondevik II Government examined the proposal for a new general part of the penal code. In the setting of this case, Innst. O. No 72 for 2004-2005, the majority of the Committee, composed of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left, the Labour Party and the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, asked the Grand Duchy to submit proposals for solutions to the problem as soon as possible. The Committee provided clear guidance on the need for solutions to be found within the healthcare system. It was not desirable to leave responsibility to institutions within the traditional criminal justice system. Everyone is positive to the approach the Council of State has signaled from the pulpit. I believe the recognition in the debate here today shows that this is not a simple matter, and there may not be a solution, either on one side or the other. I have also noticed that the Minister of Justice has set up a working group to see if it is possible to use criminal law responses even when the perpetrator is unreliable. It said to read in the Newspaper on 29 May this year. That's how I see it, very well that both state councils are already trying to find solutions that can also take care of those who – let's say – are being plagued by the criminal acts committed by improbable. It is also positive that the purpose of the work is to contribute to the treatment and rehabilitation of the people affected by this problem. It is important for me to make it clear that I believe that the solutions must definitely involve – as everyone has been involved here – and perhaps also primarily exist in healthcare. It is at least here that you have experience in the treatment of mental illness, and this is where the treatment methods need to be developed and improved. I think the vast majority of these people will somehow need help from the health care community as well. I think that Olav Gunnar Ballo's contributions were thought-provoking in terms of problematisation. Maybe we're thinking too sloppy about solutions. In this way, I expect that we will have a case in Stortinget later. Maybe we all really should go into this problem with new eyes and think new, different, reflected and whole. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we look forward to the concrete proposals of the Council of State, both to changes in law and to the treatment of illegitimate lawbreakers who are not to be regarded as dangerous, but who are certainly perceived to be very painful in their immediate environment, and who often need help. It is important to have two thoughts in your head: citizens must be protected from crime, and those who have committed a criminal act must be helped to live a crime-free life through an adapted treatment system. We would very much like to cooperate further with the Government and the Government parties to find good solutions to this difficult challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1933	There are very extensive and difficult issues that the representative Aspaker is going to raise in his interview. So far, the debate shows that most parties do not find simple answers to the complex issues that are being outlined. We often hear: Punish them or keep them locked up! As politicians, we get to hear that when something happens. I often think that it is said in despair that society can in some way never guard against mentally ill and unpredictable people who commit crimes. Increased use of coercion, as we also heard the Council of State say, is probably not the way to go, because it violates the Convention on Human Rights. As far as Norway is concerned, we have extensive use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. I think it's right that we're detained in relation to the use of coercion. If we're not, we'll easily get on the assault page. It's kind of going to be the opposite. The Councils of State indicated that society can protect itself against dangerous persons, while unsuspecting offenders who are annoying but not dangerous cannot be subjected to a special reaction. What makes the situation difficult is, for example, when the person concerned is opposed to treatment, for example: in the municipal auxiliaries, and it creates conflicts around the community. But you can't force anyone who's not under compulsion to accept treatment. I think it is very positive that the Council of State has addressed the issues raised by the interpellant by starting a survey of how many people this is about, what treatment services exist and what works, what treatment services may be needed, housing, etc. As the Council of State also said in its response instead, it may be important to think about alternative forms of treatment to continue. So for accountability. Who is responsible? I think that when the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice get together, it shows that here there are actually two state councils and two departments that take responsibility and set up a group that assesses whether and possibly how the specific criminal law reactions can be used against offenders. I think it's nice to hear the representatives of Ballo's reflections on the judgements of forensic experts. He stresses that they must be used in a sense. I think it is important to grasp the problem area that Ballo outlined when he reflected on this. Difficult issues require extensive work to find solutions. It is reassuring that the Council of State has undertaken several types of work in this area, which can lead to greater security for people and also for the individual mentally ill person who commits criminal offences. Because we're talking about the environment and society, and we're also talking about the individual mentally ill. Both parts must be taken care of, possibly in a new court or court of law, or what is to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1952	I want to give credit to the interpellant who has taken up this matter. It's a difficult thing. The criminal actions that are being discussed are being committed by people falling between all the chairs. We just have to admit, they really fall between all the chairs. They're too sick to pay, and they're not sick enough to get an offer within the healthcare system as it is today. There is no other way to express it: they fall between all the chairs. We in the Left too have noticed that the Minister of Justice will look closer to extending the scope of criminal law special reaction. The left will point out that it is important that these patients — I deliberately use the word patients, because that is what they are — come under legislation and measures under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We're talking here about a group of patients who are currently in a grey zone, and these patients need to be offered treatment within the healthcare system. This treatment must involve individual measures, so that, of course, a person is more able to prevent the criminal actions for which the police are currently unable to sanction. In practice, this requires constructive and active coordination, interaction has been used today, between police, municipal authorities – i.e. in the municipalities where these people live – and mental health protection. But I think we have to establish one thing: it has to be an instance, an authority that has the primary responsibility. I think it's very important. And the decisive thing, after the Left's view, is that mental health protection has to take this responsibility. They have to take responsibility for the people the interpellant is talking about, so that they don't get tossed between the different authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1967	I shall also commend the inter-pellant for addressing an extremely important issue, which is at the same time a major political dilemma. It is a dilemma based on the fact that there are people who commit acts that society does not accept, while at the same time taking into account the personal needs of these people when we are going to impose and evaluate sanctions. It's going to be a dilemma, and it's a challenge for all of us. Had this been easy, we would have avoided this debate. But we've had it before, we have it today, and we're going to be guaranteed to have it again. Nevertheless, I miss the debate that we focus on what is most important. What is the essence of such a debate? Is it that there is equivalency between the perpetrator of these acts and society's need for protection? If that's the case, we have one starting point. If we say that society's need for protection comes first, i.e. the interests of law-abiding citizens and their best interests first, then we immediately have another debate. And for the Progress Party, that will be the starting point. That doesn't mean you shouldn't be involved in discussing different measures to make sure these people are okay with their disease. But it must be that society's need for protection has, and shall have, priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox It has to do with politics, seventh and last. Another thing that is interesting: this is a grey zone for health for those concerned, but also between the justice sector and the health and care sectors. And I think that might be a part of making it extra difficult. We have a dilemma of professional secrecy. How are confidentiality rules managed and applied within different regimes? I think you sometimes use them to a greater extent than what makes sense for someone who actually needs help. But you feel, based on your own profession, that it's necessary. I think that is one thing that both the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Justice should definitely look at further, and I am sure they have. Then the Minister of Justice has been praised for setting up a new working group to look at this. Some of us think you might not have needed it. If we look back at Storting's treatment of new criminal law last year, the criminal law commission on, among other things. the threshold for the use of specific reactions. There was a majority and a minority, and among other things. The lawyer pointed out that the level of use of the special reaction in his opinion was too high, and it should be lowered. The lawyer had a good and good assessment of what was the reason why the Progress Party at the time suggested lowering the threshold in order to use it. The aim should be to meet the needs of law-abiding citizens. I also think it's important to see it on the ground that if we want to maintain the peculiar reactions we have, they have to have legitimacy outside this house as well. Ordinary people, citizens, have to see that special reactions are reasonable, and that by giving help to the people who need it, we also get help. If not, at the end of the day, there's a rebellion out there that makes us maybe have to stop having these kind of reactions. That again won't help anyone. That's why it's important that you work with it openly and make sure that what you do is legitimized. If not, we will have to remove the whole scheme in the worst case. Another dilemma is what happens when these people are used by backers with a conscious attitude: – I use it and it to commit my crime, and that person cannot be punished, and I will not be taken for it. I think that's a dilemma. There may be a lot of people in this grey zone, and then the perpetrator will kind of be both the perpetrator and the victim. It's also a dilemma that we have to deal with in a political everyday life when we discuss these kinds of things. I am pleased with what the representative Davøy was about, that we should not forget to focus on those who are victims. At least I think that's one of the most important things we can do. Yesterday and today there has been a series of articles in the Official Journal of Drammen on a matter there about. 75 parents in Upper Eiker have signed a treaty against a person whom they have experienced as a direct threat and who has brought death threats to children. So it's a community that's alive for this person. He was convicted several times before – the first time in 1993. But the paradox is evident in what the court has said. He has volunteered several times, but then he wrote himself out. In the judgment it says, among other things, and I would like to refer to it, for I think that is interesting – I quote from Drammen's Official Journal: ‘On the other hand, the defendant has been several times expelled from the hospital/refused from treatment because of out-of-court behaviour. The Court of First Instance is quite unable to do so. It appears that the healthcare system rejects the patient when the symptoms of the disease for which he is being treated appear.’ If that's the reality, it shows that we have bigger problems than that. In the end, I would like to say that I agree with everything, most of what the representative Ballo was into. He pointed out the dilemmas surrounding the experts, which I think is a key point for both councils to address when looking at this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e1991	As many people have encountered, this is an important topic, because it is unsustainable that a group of people commit repeated crimes without the ability of society to respond. It is a burden both for those who are subjected to the actions and for those who are carrying out the actions. This can lead to some feeling that they are above the law. In some cases, there may also be carelessness — both because the crime may be an expression of bad health and because society around it will naturally turn away and isolate humans. This is unworthy, and it may cause further trouble. The Council of State has presented well the work already under way, both in relation to the specific issue asked by the representative Aspaker, and in relation to issues related to the specific reactions, to cross-border cooperation and to the content of the reactions. I would therefore like to say a little bit about a group of people who are in a situation that is similar in many ways to the Aspacer has explained in his interpellation, because they have poor functioning and are not faced with adequate reactions. It concerns people who commit serious crime and who do not receive adequate follow-up and help because they do not come under the law of forced care. They don't commit enough serious crime. Those who made us aware of the problem were the RIBO Attführungssenter in Nordland, a public non-profit foundation. We have affected them in several notes during the period that went on, when I sat on the Justice Committee. RIBO has specialised in offering a range of low-functioning persons who commit criminal offences. Today, there are several in their homes on bail, as well as custody, Section 12 and conditional judges. A few prisons and a few municipalities have been able to afford to pay for their stay, but the potential is much greater. Today's law requires that you have an IQ below 55 in order to be forced into custody if you commit serious criminal acts, which in itself is a very strange system. In such a situation, state resources are automatically triggered. However, if one has more than 55 in the IQ, but in practice is more low-functioning than those defined under the Forced Care Act, he is often imprisoned if the crime is serious. Many prisons cannot afford to pay for a more adequate arrangement for this group, which thus becomes more vulnerable and often more dangerous from the stay. When they release, the municipalities must take care of them, and many municipalities do not have a good enough offer. If the individuals have not committed serious enough crime, they are often not imprisoned. Sometimes they are sentenced to conditional prison sentences, and then it is also up to the municipalities to arrange a scheme, which many people are unable to do. These are in a situation that is very similar to the one that has affected Aspaker, just that it concerns a slightly different group. Several of these people are in danger of committing more serious crime, they are annoying and often lonely, and they require much, both of time, care and training, to function in society. At RIBO I got a meeting and heard about several specific cases. One of them was a boy who had 65 in the IQ, but big personality problems. He was taken for fire detection and put into custody at RIBO. The trial led to acquittal, and it turned out that the boy was more easily mentally retarded. He was sent straight home, without follow-up. After two months he started a school. He was then held in custody and then sent to social housing without follow-up. It culminated in the fact that he lit several cars. Only then did he get a seat at RIBO, where he was two years old. What this boy needed, and society needed him, was a longer stay in an adequate institution, and not least permanent follow-up, but the municipalities can't afford it. The alternative for this boy may be imprisonment, which could exacerbate the situation. I also met a woman with a lower degree of developmental impairment who had been behind serious fire strikes. Because of a long stay at RIBO for several years, this woman could gradually be returned to her municipality of origin, with which she has been in great conflict. People have been afraid of her – not for no reason – and she has been afraid of them. After long social training, care, trust building and training in mastering meaningful activities, she could finally be reinstated. She had got a good life, and she no longer needed to call attention all the time. But this is the result of a long-term work focusing on care, equivalency, security and not least security. In particular, it has to be worked in the long term when there has been a failure of society over time. In addition to the need to be good at prevention and to build up a proper provision of care for people with mental illness, personality disorders and mental retardation, we need a device to deal with situations where these people commit crime. Both prison and unfollowed housing are in many cases equally poor responses to these people’s needs and to society’s need for security over time. In the ski they have something called Building 8. These are manned homes for people with heavy drug and psychiatry problems. Because of this offer, the number of hospital emergencies in psychiatry and prisons to the Ila detention centre has been reduced by 80 pst. in the course of two years. There is a lot of money saved, and not least: it has prevented a lot of unnecessary human suffering. There are many needs that need to be met, and there have been references to some dilemmas. I also think that the representative Ballo had a very wise contribution to make on this matter. But we have great confidence that the Government will follow this up. We know that the Minister of Health and Health is very concerned about this, and that the Minister of Justice is also.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2010	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2016	The President will draw attention to the fact that today's meetings in the Grand Duchy and its departments will go beyond the timeframe provided for by the Presidency. This poses a problem in view of the open consultation of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs at 1 p.m. 15.15 today. Paragraph 21 of the Rules of Procedure states that there is no open consultation when there is a meeting in the Stortinget or the departments, except under the ordinary Questionnaire. Under Paragraph 64, the Storting may, in exceptional cases, decide to put certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure into effect. Such a decision shall be taken by a general majority when the proposal is promoted by the President, otherwise it shall require a two-thirds majority. In the President's view, we are now faced with a specific case where there is reason to derogate from the provision in paragraph 21. The President proposes that the Stortinget – based on Section 64 of the Rules of Procedure – decide to derogate from the provision in Section 21 that there is no open consultation when there is a meeting in the Stortinget or in the departments, as far as the hearing of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is concerned today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will draw attention to the fact that, as a consequence of what the Storting has now approved, the Odelsting meeting and the lodging meeting will be held immediately after the grand meeting is over. Then the President will give the floor to the inter-pellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2025	I think it is a very joyful debate we have now had, and there is very clear agreement on both the challenges and the dilemmas associated with the absence of reactions and the delimitation of persons who are subject to criminal law. The Council of State has outlined the measures in place to help more people to be actively followed up and help. That's good. I think, as I said, we need to use even more thinking power in the future to make that menu richer, in the hope that we can stop even more people from committing serious crime. I also think it's a matter for the Council of State and the Health Service to get involved in diagnosis, because in some cases it might seem that the psychosis diagnosis is getting excused and overshadowing obviously antisocial behaviour, and that some people in this way are twisting away from criminal reactions. Then I think that the representative Ballo in a very thoughtful way brought in an interesting perspective in relation to who is sick, and in relation to who is being judged for what types of crime. But what it illustrates is that the legal psychiatrists in Norway have considerable power, which means that we also need to look at their role and carefully consider how that institution should be ensured quality in Norwegian criminal law. The representative Laila Davøy and several others have so far underlined the importance of protecting the principles of the rule of law, and I will give my absolute and full support to that. It's also important here to see that we need to set some more limits, but of course we have to be on the right side of the law, and we don't have to go any faster than we actually have the authority to. Everyone sees, I think, the need for further responsibilities mobilization, and we have to put behind what we have seen of trends in responsibilities pulverisation. I think we all admit that we're facing a rather demanding problem, but it can't mean that we're not going to solve the problem, and we have to do the best we can, each from its own point of view. This is a complex problem. There is hardly one answer, and there are no simple answers. I therefore attend with great interest the results of the work that has been done here, which I hope will lead to new measures that both take the sick person into account and take into account society around. And so are I and the Right convinced that we're not going to solve society's problems in general if we don't at the same time manage to solve the individual's problems in small terms. That's why, in a way, the contradiction that the Progress Party here is trying to create around this, for me, is very artificial, and it's also very artificial for me to put so one-sided emphasis on the perpetrator in relation to the victim, because these are also two sides of the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2040	I also want to thank you for a lot of good posts, which at least I want to take with me in the work that the government will do further from many angles of incidence. I'm also glad that there seems to be a consensus that there is a need for significant improvements in a rather difficult area, where we're going to be able to help those who need help, but at the same time also protect society when it's obviously necessary, as more people have been involved. So I just want to say that the Social and Health Directorate currently has a circular that will include short checklists for use in relation to those of the group we are talking about here, that is, if the patient is at risk to himself and or others. I repeat that there is now a permanent cooperation forum between the police and health services. There will be further developments around the country, and a common circular will also be issued in these days, so that one knows how to behave in different situations of crisis. The mapping is almost done, so at least we have a pretty good picture of how many people we're talking about here. The working group will be done by the fall, so I intend to come back with the Minister of Justice of the Grand Duchy in a very short time. One of the things we clearly assess is a narrow extension of the scope of special reactions for unpredictable. This means, of course, that we assess the provisions of Section 39 of the Penal Code, whether more should be transferred to mandatory mental health protection. But then it shouldn't just be for storage, then it should be because one must also have what is needed in addition, because only storage solves nothing, neither for those who are involved, nor for society. But all of this I aim to get back to Stortinget in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2047	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2061	It is a joint committee that wants the Storting to agree that Norway accedes to the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Fishing Vessel Crews. Although Norwegian fishing vessels already practise the safety requirements imposed by the Convention, the Committee believes that it is important that Norway accedes to the Convention, not least to increase the chances that even more states will comply. The maximum possible termination of the Convention will lead to greater overall safety for fishing vessels, but will also contribute to the smoothing of competition conditions between them. The Convention enters into force 12 months after the accession of at least 15 states, and when Norway now hopefully joins, there are six states that are joined; the others are Denmark, Iceland, Russia, Ukraine and Syria. There is also a great deal of agreement between the hearing authorities that have spoken on this matter. None of them have objected to Norway joining the Convention. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has advised Norway to accede to the Convention, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also done so. Fishing is a dangerous profession, with a high accident statistics. Fishermen's accident rates are higher in many countries on the right than in other professional groups. Also here in the country it is necessary to keep the focus on bringing down the accidents before the fishing industry. The Convention sets out minimum requirements for personnel on seagoing vessels and lays down rules for crew qualifications and for the watchkeeping of decks, machinery and radio departments on vessels of 24 metres in length and over. Furthermore, the Convention provides for basic safety training for all fishing vessels. Crews of seagoing vessels shall be certified. Challenges and training shall be supervised and records of all certificates issued shall be kept up to date. Norway has today officially approved security training for 40 hours, and the Committee notes that this must continue. These courses are today supported by the state with approx. 8.5 million. kr, and it saves the individual fish from NOK 10000 to NOK 15 000, plus travel and subsistence. But it also probably leads to good security courses being conducted, and with great excitement. The size has allowed 11 million. kr over the Ministry of Knowledge of such training for this year, which indicates that the Storting has seen and will consider these security courses as appropriate to increase safety at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2080	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2096	It is a pleasure to present a unanimous opinion of the Economic and Social Committee which will involve increased Norwegian participation in European space programmes administered by ESA. Norway has long traditions in space activities and has benefited greatly from the space-based infrastructure used in telecommunications, broadcasting, navigation, Earth observation and rescue services. This has proved particularly useful for our geographical location, with large sea and land areas, large marine sector and Norwegian climate research commitment. At the same time, Norway has sought to exploit its geographical advantage and competence to conduct leading research at international level and to provide services to researchers or satellite operators of other countries. Norway's participation in the ESA programmes gives Norwegian research and competence environments the opportunity to participate in projects together with other European research communities, thereby also helping Norwegian involvement in these programmes to develop Norwegian top-notch environments in innovative and forward-looking technological solutions. At the same time, I believe that the Norwegian initiative in space activities can contribute to the vitalisation of the interest in real science studies. I would like to refer here to the extensive cooperation of the Norwegian Roma Centres and the NAROM with the education sector. Although this investment is added up here, large financial liabilities are involved, the guaranteed industrial return rule will give Norwegian industry development jobs in the ESA krona for krona. It may not sound so impressive, but research among Norwegian companies shows that every penny we have entered into these projects has returned Norwegian industrial contracts for over four times. And then you look at the return in addition to the professional and professional commitment that these contracts give, it's good. Finally, I would just like to stress that the effort to which this is added is necessary if we want to participate in the development of international space activities, which in turn will help to strengthen Norwegian environments of competence and technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2109	The company Nera recently launched a new portable satellite broadband terminal. The terminal is small and light and is expected to give Nera a lead on competitors in this market. Telenor and Norspace are suppliers of the satellite broadband system. This success is the result of a long-term commitment to space technology, both from governments and business. Actually, it is an adventure – and against all odds – that small Norway is betting on space activities. But we do that, and we claim. Take, for example: the company Norspace i Horten, an enterprise that has been supplying components and equipment to the space industry for more than 20 years. I think it's kind of amazing and strange that 110 of the satellites that currently orbit the Earth have parts that come from the Horten. We have come a long way since the first rocket was fired from Andy Island in 1962. At the time, researchers were primarily interested in the room. Of course, the researchers were at the time interested in northern lights, and the first launches were to give more insight into this phenomenon. This is still an important area of activity in Andøya. It is therefore not accidental that Norwegian researchers are currently at the top of the world when it comes to studies of northern lights. The Government's objective is to make research and development 3 pst. of gross domestic product. Norwegian space companies and research communities will be important in achieving these objectives. The government also sees that space activities are very important for the development of the northern regions. It is particularly important to meet users’ needs for navigation, weather forecasting and surveillance in the major northern sea areas of the country. Therefore, Norway’s participation in the programmes of the European Space Agency is very important. Norwegian Space Centre conducts an annual survey of the companies receiving ESA contracts. The studies show that each krone in Norway contributes to triggering industrial contracts in the commercial market of more than 4 kr. The Rome industry had a turnover of DKK 5.4 billion in 2004 and an export share of over 80 pst. Norway has a large territory and a scattered settlement, which requires efficient infrastructure solutions for communication, navigation and information gathering. Satellite solutions are often more cost-effective and contain more options than ground-based options. Environmental monitoring, resource management, weather forecasting, navigation, broadcasting, telecommunications and emergency alerting are examples of the use of satellites. Therefore, the contribution that Norway makes to the ESA programmes is very well spent money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2124	This case, if the Norwegian quota for the European Space Agency was increased, etc., was announced in the 2006 budget. The self-loans are very easy for the Christian People's Party to join, because this is a right bet. We are pleased in the Christian People's Party that there is a cross-political consensus that Norway is actively participating in space research in Europe. However, we were a little surprised that the Government reduced the government budget's promises to international technology programmes by 15 million. kr. This reduction has made it a little harder for the Norwegian space industry to compete internationally in the commercial market. The space research gives us a number of new solutions within, for example: telecommunications, broadcasting, navigation, etc., and not least rescue service. Norway has also built facilities, for example: on Andy Island and on Svalbard, which may assist in space exploration. Norway may position itself as a service provider for space exploration. Participation in this cooperation is important for Norwegian research, but it is also important because it can provide attractive and high-tech jobs in the districts. This is pretty good enough in itself. The Christian People's Party also believes that this research helps us to manage and monitor important areas, such as sea, climate and environment. When it comes to the use of new material, space research helps us. So in general, it's easy to find good arguments for this promise that we're invited to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2133	The left believes that space investment is forward-looking, both for Norway as a modern technology nation and for technology workplaces in the districts. The left has therefore blessed the proposal of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the increase of the appropriations for Norway's participation in the programmes of the European Space Agency (ESA) and also the proposal to increase the quota for ESA. The latter is an increase resulting from the good economic development of Norway, when the quota is fixed according to a country's reputation. The Norwegian research and technology environment has been good at exploiting the opportunities offered by ESA membership. And as has previously been pointed out here, calculations made by Norwegian Romsenter show that Norwegian companies sell more than four times the sum that the state invests in space business. Being involved in the programmes launched in Europe gives Norway a good opportunity to be involved in the development of peak technology, which would be too large and too difficult for Norway alone. Norway also has a particularly good use of space in monitoring our large seas. Even before vessel monitoring and climate monitoring, we have a great advantage of being involved in and developing technology associated with this. Even if we now join the prizes and are happy with the increase that's coming, we're going to add up to just under $24 million. kr – most of it in order to increase the quota – will also refer to the reduction in the International Technology Programme of 15 million. kr, which the Government cut off on the budget in relation to the Bondevik government’s budget for 2006. They are still gone, and it will, of course, reduce the competitiveness of the Norwegian space industry to the extent that the money is gone. The left has always been concerned with research, technological development and the development of top technologies that can give us new, forward-looking and interesting jobs. We also mean that Norway has to invest financially in this development now when we have the opportunity, now that oil gives us income and gives us the opportunity to build a nutrient base for the future. We see that space business, especially what is attached to the sea, to the environment and to our special northern regions, is such a possibility for future efforts for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2148	It is gratifying that there is broad consensus in the committee and in the Stortinget on the investment in Norwegian space industry and its development. But there's one question that there's a little discussion about, and that we discussed in the committee. This applies to the so-called "following" program. In order for us to get full use of the Norwegian membership of the European Space Agency, it is absolutely necessary that we also have some resources that we can follow up with nationally. What the discussion has gone on in the committee is the minority, the opposition, has put in a note asking that these not be reduced, because we feel that this might be, at least the industry itself has called it, one of the most important things to be able to make full use of our resources. I would like the government to comment a little bit on how the government looks forward to this, because the majority of the population, the government party, have not joined us to point out the importance of this so strongly that we oppose reducing it in the future. It's a crucial part of getting the full benefit of the positive effort that's going on in ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2155	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the Government has broad support for the investment in space. The approach demonstrates political agreement that space activities are, and will continue to be, of great importance to Norway. At the Berlin Council of Ministers meeting in December 2005, the Member States of the European Space Agency ESA agreed to a significant increase in activity. I believe this is a clear signal that space activities are now being prioritised in Europe. With the commitment of the Government, Norway becomes an important country in the ESA context. The Norwegian contribution was noted by the other Member States. We can expect to get a stronger position in ESA in the years ahead. Norway prioritises participation in European space programmes aimed at national user needs. A central example is the northern regions. The northern regions are the main strategic focus of this government. We have great opportunities, but also challenges in this area. The region has large land and sea areas, such as: is rich in natural resources. I believe that space-based services are an important contribution to tackling the challenges of a tough climate and a large area. Satellite data for weather forecasting, environmental monitoring and fisheries management are examples of how Norwegian users can benefit from space activities. In addition to meeting key societal needs, ESA participation provides important development contracts for the Norwegian high-tech industry. In our commitment to space, I have put great emphasis on just the industrial gains we reap in the ESA cooperation, which is also highlighted earlier in the debate. Telecommunications is an important field. This is also one of the areas of space activities that I want to invest in in the years to come. Space-based communication and navigation services are becoming increasingly important. Satellite broadband services are a reality. You can now log on to the Internet anywhere in the world. Norwegian telecoms companies are among the foremost in this market. This had not been done without public funds through the participation in ESA. Satellite navigation is also becoming part of people's everyday lives, and the number of users will continue to increase. The Galileo satellite navigation system is under development in Europe. I have prioritised participating in the system development programme. Not only is the system important for Norwegian users, but our participation also allows Norwegian companies to participate in the development of a wide range of services. If Norwegian companies are positioning themselves correctly, they will have access to a large market for high-tech products. In addition, space activities also make a solid contribution to fundamental research. Norwegian researchers have access to important data and the possibility to participate in ESA scientific projects. Norway is dependent on cooperation with other countries in order to implement the kind of bets that we are talking about here. We divide the bill and get full access to the results. Our commitment to space is of great value to the development of high-tech and knowledge-intensive business in Norway. Our ESA participation covers more than our national user needs. It is also part of an active industrial policy. Our society will become increasingly dependent on space in the future. It will be an important part of future infrastructure. This is an important reason why the Government is now placing stronger emphasis on European space programmes than ever before. With this proposition, the Government wants to strengthen its commitment to space activities and has therefore requested the support of the Storting. We're glad we got it. Then they asked questions about and commented that the government reduced the appropriations by 15 million. kr. It is important to pay attention to this, but we must not forget the rest of the story, namely that we also committed ourselves to the ESA programme of 947 million. kr at the Ministerial Council meeting in December. We want to spend the money where we think they give the most effect. The ESA programmes are targeted in specific high-tech areas. We are also assured that the government appropriations for the programmes will give Norwegian companies contracts for approximately the same amount. When we focus on the 15 million, we have to bring with us the 947 million that show that we actually want to participate. The representative of Løvik asked questions about the means of accompanying these programmes. This we will come back to as the programmes evolve. We assume that we will implement the appropriations in line with the promises and expectations we have created through the Berlin Ministerial Council meeting in December. So this is going to come back to when the programmes in question have the progress that requires us to implement the appropriations in revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2187	The commitment to space is undoubtedly positive. It is positive for research, positive for development and positive for business. The text of the proposition reads as follows: ‘The State appropriations for space activities are justified in terms of benefits to society in several areas. Space activities are characterised by the fact that technology development, user interests and strategic considerations are part of almost all projects, and that the ring-fence of activities is often found in several areas, both inside and outside space activities.» That's absolutely correct. What's a shame is that this government is unable to see the relationship between the defence industry and the space industry. What we're talking about right now is exactly the same business. I would therefore urge the Government to challenge the Minister of Industry to actually use the acquisition activity of the Defence and the Defence Repurchase Agreements effectively and actively also in relation to space activities. It is a paradox that almost all global space activities have been banned from the State pension fund – the foreign investment universe. There's the rule crystal clear and excludes corporations like Northrod-Grumman, Lockheed Martin, Raythron and all the big ones, including the big European companies like EADS. But they encourage Norwegian companies to cooperate with the same companies they themselves have banned on the investment universe. Here's a paradox. I would challenge and encourage the Minister of Industry to contact the Minister of Finance so that the ethical guidelines of the State pension fund – abroad – can be revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2207	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2215	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Børge Brende, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 2 and 3, from Børge Brende, on behalf of the Right; First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government recommends that, in the event of a power crisis in Central Norway, the additional costs of regulating production must be covered over the central network.’; This proposal is supported by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2241	It is then voted on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant a time-limited emission permit for CO2 emissions from a gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden built with today’s best commercially available technology.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2259	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote an action plan with concrete measures to address a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal, and to present it to the Stortinget in spring 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2289	During the debate, Torbjørn Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the promotion of an energy policy action plan to ensure the short and long-term supply of power in all parts of Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2315	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2 by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the State budget for 2007, to promote an action plan for the construction of gas power plants with the same CO2 management requirements as in the EU, where the State takes full financial and technological responsibility and risk for research, development and development of the CO2 value chain, so that the builder of gas power plants and the carrier company on Norwegian base is exempted from economic and technological risks in this context.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2348	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the State budget for 2007, to promote an action plan for the construction of gas power plants with the same CO2 management requirements as in the EU and with a State commitment to research and development of CO2 management technologies.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2371	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the State budget for 2007, to promote a plan of measures for the construction of gas power plants with the same CO2 management requirements as in the EU.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2399	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01.ana.ud1661e2508	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is closed? - The meeting's been cancelled.
