ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e60	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e76	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e92	I am pleased to say that the Grand total notification of appointments has finally been given a form that provides Stortinget with the basis for a serious assessment of various aspects of the state's appointments. There is no reason to hide that it has taken some time, but the result as it is now available is in accordance with the wishes of Stortinget. A recurring theme is the lack of balance between women and men in employment. The proportion of women has remained relatively stable between 26 and 31 pst. during the period 2000-2005. There are no signs of major changes. However, the proportion of women among applicants shows a clear trend. It's e.g. Interestingly, a total of 52 out of 75 applicants for jobs in the Ministry of Finance in the period 2004–2005 were women. There are still considerable differences between departments. We find the strongest imbalance in the Ministry of Defence, Justice and Foreign Affairs. Not one woman passed through the loop in the Ministry of Defence last period, despite strong signals from the former Minister of Defence about measures and efforts to recruit women. The Committee shares the issue of a government shall use the appointing authority to ensure a smoother distribution between women and men in central government. All except the Advance Party believe that the Government should keep the gender balance in mind when recruitment is to be carried out. The question of the anonymisation of applicants has been raised several times during the examination of the annual notice of appointment. This issue is relevant in relation to new disclosure laws, which are currently being dealt with in the Storting. I therefore assume that this question will be clarified in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e107	Several have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e123	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e139	If it is allowed to start a little untimely: this case reminds us of the vision that was proposed to us when the PC took over for the typewriter and the hard drive would replace the archive cabinets: the vision of the paperless office. As we all know now, paper production in offices seems to grow at least as much as the number of PCs, the speed of networks and the increase in storage capacity on more and more servers. The social security system may not have fully bombed the four IT projects examined by the Riksrevision, but the distance between the savings drawn in the start-up and decision-making phases of the projects and those that are in power to be extracted are even surpassed in the recent performance of the skiers in the Turin-OL. It is of concern that decisions on large-scale IT investments, which also involve new ways of organising the service, are based on assessments that subsequently prove to be so erroneous in terms of the cost impact of the projects. The Ministry now points out in its comments that the overall impact assessment of the projects must also cover the qualitative aspects. The Committee agrees. Nevertheless, it is serious that in assessing the impact of IT systems on future labour demand, there is as strong a bombardment as one does. There are three of these projects, ranging from 600 to 700 annual works to about 150. In the fourth project, ‘New assistive technology application’, the survey raised questions as to whether the job was more difficult and took longer, as well as a proposed financial gain that was estimated at exactly 362 million. kr, was later considered unrealistic. Now we're not going to underestimate the complexity of calculating savings opportunities for such projects. However, it is worrying that the study identifies major shortcomings in project management and follow-up. There were no plans to take out the expected gains. The responsibility for taking the profits was largely left to the external level, and the report given to the ministry, that is, that the objectives have largely been achieved, proves to be without the necessary connection with reality. I hope you learn from errors. The Committee has therefore taken note of the fact that the Ministry clarifies that the Social Security Act will work in the future on the concreteisation of profit targets, measurement methods and evidence of actual gains and clarification of responsibilities. It is important that both the establishment itself and the ministry have this in place when they are entering into the implementation of one of the main administrative reforms for a long time, namely the consolidation of the social security system and the A-etat. The so-called NAV reform will require a lot on the IT side. In that work, there is a lot to save on learning from ‘all kinds of mistakes from yesterday’, i.e. from the four projects which the Riksrevision has now examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e178	There is a lot of criticism about the Riksrevision targeting health companies in this report. Three areas are concerned: firstly, the social security system does not have sufficient control over the reimbursement requirements of private laboratories and X-ray institutes. Secondly, health care establishments do not have a sufficient overview of their own costs of X-ray institutes and laboratories, so that an assessment of the economy can be made by purchasing services rather than performing them under their own control. And thirdly, the National Audit Office says that the studies show that regional health companies have concluded contracts without complying with the public procurement legislation. I'll come back to the last one. The Committee has noted that the Ministry is now saying that there is ongoing work aimed at getting a better overview of health businesses through the so-called ISF system, based on ‘cost per patient’, in order to better assess the appropriateness of healthcare businesses to purchase services. The Committee assumes that it will lead to better financial management and also better control of the reimbursements in the social security budget. Finally, it points to a problem that I believe is more general, that health businesses do not follow good administrative practices. It is good administrative practice to comply with the public acquisition rules. Equally, it is good administrative practice to publish posts and not to employ friends. The last thing I do is relate to a specific matter that has recently appeared in the press, related to Health Förde. I record that the board of directors has later stated that they are satisfied and have no criticism to come along. I saw that a few days ago, the Council of State asked for a report on what has happened in Health Förde, both in terms of acquisitions, and in terms of the publication of posts or the lack of publication of posts. I would like to ask the Council of State if she too is satisfied with the Board's 'pleasure' with its administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e189	I would like to start by saying that I agree with what the rapporteur has just said. There are important references that were made. But there are a lot of other things that worry very much. I would simply like to use the press release from the Riksrevision, dated 21 October 2005, where they write the following in bold: ‘The Auditor’s audit questions whether the overall resources of laboratory and x-ray services are being used effectively. Regional health enterprises have insufficient knowledge of laboratory and x-ray activities in their own enterprises to assess whether purchasing services from private individuals is a better economy.» In order to assess whether it is profitable to use production units other than their own, it is at least very good to know what the costs of own activities are. We can therefore see from the National Audit Office that there is too little overview in our own health companies of the costs associated with this, and there are also major problems in assessing other providers. I think it is important that we also have in mind that much of the improvement that has been made in the availability of laboratory and x-ray services around Norway, has just been done using private providers that have come as a good and important complement to public services. Private providers are also important in order to have a corrective approach to their own services. However, it must then be expected that this report will be used in the future just to make the basic work of health care businesses internal to the costs and time spent in their own activities. I hope that the Council of State will be able to explain in its post afterwards that it will use this study to take the costs in its own business seriously, so that you know what you have to do when you have to publish a tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e207	First of all, I would like to say that we are taking the report from the Riksrevision in the greatest seriousness. And then I would say that diagnosis carried out by a medical laboratory or radiological outpatient clinic is absolutely necessary for someone to have a proper diagnosis, and thus also choose the treatment form that is necessary and correct. The National Audit Office’s study of services from laboratory and x-ray establishments carried out extensive work on the basis of the years 2002–04, where a larger source material has been collected and analysed. The National Audit Office states that the social security budget does not have sufficient settlement control of the reimbursement requirements of private laboratories and X-ray institutes, as many have also pointed out here today. It is stressed that it is necessary for the Ministry of Health and Welfare, in cooperation with the Swedish National Agency, to review and improve this monitoring as soon as possible. The National Audit Office’s survey also shows that there is a need to improve information on the production and costs of the service. It is necessary in order to keep track of expenditure trends, to properly price services, and it may also help to mitigate expenditure growth. Cost information will also be important evidence of where each service can be produced most cost-effectively. The National Audit Office assumes compliance with the public procurement legislation when concluding agreements with private laboratories and X-ray institutes. I can assure you that the department and I do. It is, of course, the case that the legislation should be complied with. In the autumn of 2004, the Norwegian Social Security Agency was set up. The work on control and payment of health refunds was concentrated on fewer units and in a separate social security performance line. There is a detailed risk assessment and control strategy for private and official laboratories and X-ray institutes. In 2005, the social security service’s settlement organisation focused on developing the solution of the problem. Procedures have been established, and now tools, for the documentation of controls with related results. In 2005, the social security system received in excess of two million individual bills for services provided by private laboratory and x-ray establishments. Consequently, the control activities of the social security system depend on automated control and electronic tools. A new generation control tool has been developed and is to be used for the control of reimbursement requirements by private laboratories and X-ray institutes during this year. The new control tool improves the ability to manually control settlement based on risk assessments. At the beginning of this year a model agreement was sent out to all private reimbursement recipients. The model agreement provides guidelines for direct social security settlement. Nearly half of the beneficiaries have signed this agreement. Some clarifications remain in relation to the beneficiaries of the reimbursement as per. today has not signed. In February 2005, the Rikstrøgdeverket set up a so-called tariff selection for the field of radiology. The committee is an advisory body and is composed of recognised radiologists from both the private and public sectors. The choice of tariffs was presented in 2005 with concrete problems related to code use in public and private radiology. The treatment in this sample and in the social security code resulted in a clarification of what the social security code considers to be a refundable coding. This will be followed up in the further verification work, and this work will continue in the year we are now in. No corresponding samples have been established in the laboratory subjects so far, but a new code for the laboratory subjects has been developed in the Ministry's mission. This shall ensure a clear and up-to-date description of the activities carried out by the national medical laboratories and the code work shall be per. the current date tested in a pilot project and expected to be eligible for funding from at least 2008. The outpatient radiology reimbursement system was evaluated in 2005. In January this year, the Ministry received a unique recommendation from the Directorate for Social and Health for the further development of activity-based funding in outpatient radiology and will work in line with it. Expenditure on laboratory and x-ray activities, as the Stortinget knows, has increased sharply in recent years. Through the treatment of St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004 the Storting decided to change the framework conditions for the grant of these services. With effect from 1 September 2005, it is ensured by legislative amendment that private undertakings must have entered into agreements with regional health establishments in order to trigger reimbursement. The social security scheme checks the conformity of the contract with the reimbursement requirements. At the same time, the level of reimbursement is halved, so that regional health businesses have to operate more active co-financing than they have done in the past. This applies to both private and public service providers. The aim of the changes has been to increase the responsibilities and better opportunities for regional health businesses to plan and prioritise the overall provision of laboratory and radiology services in their own health region. The Ministry of Health and Health assumes that regional health establishments comply with the law on public acquisitions in the conclusion of new agreements with private laboratories and x-ray institutes. The Ministry has followed up regional health enterprises through business meetings. In 2004, there was a strong focus on health enterprises’ procurement policies, and the Ministry called for regional health enterprises to establish and focus on internal control of procurement. Work was also started to develop Norwegian cost crops in the ISF system based on ‘cost per patient’. Its purpose was, among other things: to obtain comparable cost information at different levels from individual patients, sub-services to patient groups, departments, hospitals and health enterprises at all levels and nationally. This will also help to provide a better basis for comparing costs between different service providers, for example. between public and private actors. Of course, regional health enterprises are actively involved in this work. The laboratory and radiology services that have been the focus of the National Audit Office’s investigation are carried out both in private independent institutions, in private ‘ideal’ hospitals and in health care establishments. Private stand-alone institutions receive, to a large extent, requisitions and referrals from primary health services. Hospitals have a much more patient-advanced approach from other specialised health services, e.g. other outpatient clinics at the hospital. Although, in many cases, there are exactly the same surveys carried out by the different institutions, there are still factors that indicate that there are natural differences in costs. Health undertakings must have day-to-day continuous watch arrangements and preparedness in the event of a crisis. Furthermore, it is natural to think that a hospital has patients with a greater degree of complexity, with associated lower function. Health enterprises also provide extensive training and education for health professionals. I would like to summarise it this way: in relation to the description in the National Audit Office's report for the period 2002-2004, we take it very seriously, and we are going to follow it up. There are several areas where, as I have now explained, action is being taken. The Ministry will also ensure the control and overview of the private laboratory and x-ray activities requested by the Riksrevision. Finally, the question from the representative Foss about the situation in Health Lead. I have expressed it through Dagbladet, and I have no problem repeating it here, that I am not satisfied with what I have read about what has happened, neither in relation to the so-called e-mail case, in relation to the purchase of furniture or in relation to the lack of a vacancy. I have, as has been explained, asked to get a report from Health West on my table today, and I will await that report before I say anything more about what I think about that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e259	It is very positive that the Riksrevision has examined the efforts of the authorities to ensure IT infrastructure, both in terms of improving IT security and in relation to measures to improve telecommunications security. The purpose of the study has been to assess this against the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The organisation of work, plan and implementation processes and the actions undertaken have been assessed. We all have the daily benefits of the enormous technical advances in computer technology and electronics that have taken place over the past 50 years. Technological development has given us a completely new material basis for life. But it is a paradox that by taking into account the opportunities offered by technological development, social and living conditions are developing that are far more vulnerable than before. This is because the use of high technology depends on many different factors, and the consequences can be very wide-ranging if someone does not work. Opportunity for sabotage, international crime, espionage or telecommunications breach, electricity supply or payment systems indicates how vulnerable our society has become. There is a broad consensus that IT security should be a business responsibility. This was confirmed during Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 on social security and has been followed up by the organisation of work. That's good. However, with regard to the allocation of responsibilities for coordination and cross-cutting supervisory tasks in the field of IT security, fundamental clarifications remain lacking. For example, what is that? in that the Ministry of Justice is responsible for critical infrastructure, and what responsibility does the Ministry feel it will have in a crisis situation? It is not reassuring when the Ministry of Justice announces that there is no clear, unambiguous and cross-sectoral overview of what is societally critical IT infrastructure. And even though the study suggests that some work is being done to define what is a critical social infrastructure, it does not seem to have been given sufficient priority so far. There can be no doubt that there is a need for clear procedures in the event of a crisis. Then the actors' roles must be completely crystal clear. With what is behind, it is alarming when the Riksrevision also reveals ambiguity in understanding the responsibility for IT security work, between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Modernisation, now the Ministry of Renewal. This is a ambiguity the government has to take hold of. I have noticed that the Ministry of Modernisation, now the Ministry of Renewal, has set up a working group to clarify the role of the various departments, and that is good. I also think it is serious when the National Audit Office shows that the Digital Infrastructure Alert System and Information Security Centres, which are to capture information on threats and vulnerabilities in the IT infrastructure, have not achieved significant business objectives. The Ministry of Defence as well as the Ministry of Modernisation – now the Ministry of Renewal – comments on the Riksrevision strengthen this impression. I assume that everyone implicitly prioritises the work of clarifying responsibilities and ensuring an organisation that performs the tasks to be performed. I also find reason to express amazement at the fact that, until May 2005, the ministries had not contacted the selected professional organisations which, according to the National Information Security Strategy, have been given a joint responsibility for the provision of important functions. It's always been a prerequisite, and I can't see that there's been any good reason for lack of cooperation. Furthermore, earlier disagreements about the location of an authority-based CERT, the Computer Emergency Response Team, seem to have contributed to the lack of progress. However, the Committee has noted that the Ministry of Modernisation, in its reply to the Riksrevision, states that: ‘The Government of 29 August 2005 decided to establish a permanent national coordinating CERT at the National Safety Authority [[VDI]] [[NSM]] Further, by letter of 24 October 2005: «In the present St.prp. No 1 there is a proposal to strengthen the operational IT security by establishing its own entity – CERT etc.” [[2005-2006]] [[SIS]] An overall committee underlines the importance of resolving issues of responsibility and relationship with other actors as a matter of urgency. It is also serious when the National Audit Office shows that the planning documents for the follow-up to the National Information Security Strategy have been insufficient, that those responsible for coordination have been given too few instruments, that funding for cross-sectoral actions has been underestimated and that legislation has not been sufficiently coordinated. This requires active follow-up by the authorities. The National Audit Office specifically addresses the search for telecommunications security and preparedness. That only a few of the measures adopted in St.meld. No 47 for 2000-2001 on the security and preparedness of telecommunications in a free and competitive telecommunications market is a matter of concern. I have noticed the response of the departments, and I record that there are a number of measures going on. It's positive. However, it is crucial whether the effort put in is sufficient, whether it is structured and whether it is coherent. I assume that both the Department and the National Audit Office have a special focus on this, assuming that the Stortinget will be kept informed about the development. In conclusion, let me point out that during 2006, a joint committee asked the Government to come back with a statement to the Stortinget on the work of clarifying the overall responsibilities between departments in the field of IT security. The Committee assumes that the statement contains an assessment of crisis management, the status of threats capture and vulnerability. At the same time, sufficient resources must be made available to ensure adequate crisis preparedness and IT infrastructure can give the necessary priority. Finally, my appeal to the relevant government councils will be that this work should be intensified also at Nordic level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e301	Information systems and networks are currently facing a growing number of different threats and vulnerabilities. This raises new questions about security and how responsibilities in these areas are organised. The complexity requires good national coordination of resources in this area, and I am therefore pleased that the National Audit Office has carried out an administrative audit of this subject area. We take very seriously the points made by the Riksrevision, and not least the reasonable clarity of the speech given by the Committee in its position - at least I will assure you that. I would like to comment on some of the comments of the Committee to some of the findings of the Riksrevision's investigation. State Council Storberget should also make comments in an article afterwards. For the purposes of ensuring coordination and cross-cutting supervisory tasks, the Committee shall write the following: ‘As regards the allocation of responsibilities for coordination and cross-cutting supervisory tasks in the field of IT security, the Committee notes, however, that fundamental clarifications are still lacking.’ And on the other hand, ‘Summary, the Committee considers that the work on ensuring IT security appears to suffer from a lack of coordination and clarification of functions, and will express concerns about the situation.’;» A lot of it was the case spokesperson also inside his post. To this end, it is announced that a clarification of the coordination responsibility between the departments is now under way in an inter-ministerial working group led by my department, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Of course, I shall ensure that the questions of responsibility and the other matters also raised by the case-speaker are taken up and presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner during 2006, as requested by the Committee. I get the results of the interministerial group hopeful in a month. When it comes to security and security of telecommunications, it is right that there are only a few measures in St.meld. No 47 completed, but much work is in progress, and a number of measures have been implemented. The message has a five-year time perspective. Several of these measures require further clarification and dissemination before they can be launched. It is equally important that technology and patterns of users have changed and that there has been a need to reconsider the setting-up of some measures, for example: network priority, including postal and telecommunications supervision. Due to changes in usage patterns, a technical solution for priority in the mobile network has been chosen and not in the fixed network. This is an area where technology jumps fast, and it can be hard to hang out with. This means that you have to change your priorities in the course of your journey, which may require new arrangements, but I just want to stress that we have – and we take – the greatest responsibility for this. We focus on it, but sometimes one has to turn the paper differently, simply because the technology and the user pattern change. So to the Committee's comments on Norcert/VDI and Norsis: ‘The Committee notes that none of the two bodies seems to have achieved significant objectives for the activities so far.’ ‘The Committee meets both the responsibilities and tasks of the SIS in relation to the relevant professional bodies and the organisation of the VDI in order to achieve defined objectives.’The Committee assumes that the issue of location, responsibilities and relationships with other actors will be resolved as soon as possible.’ Here I would like to stress – the case spokesman was also at the end of his speech – that the government and my department took two important steps to strengthen the IT security of the 2006 budget proposal, and the Stortinget has already adopted the proposals that were there. This was widely referred to in the budgetproposal from — pending — the Ministry of Modernisation. The Information Security Centre, NorSIS, is permanently established at Gjøvik, and a national alert and assistance body, NorCERT, is permanently established by the National Safety Authority. NorCERT is now fully integrated with the national safety authority’s digital infrastructure warning system, VDI. Responsibilities and tasks were described in the budget proposal. It is such that NorCERT is to provide warning and assistance in the event of a security breach specifically against critical infrastructure, while NorSIS is to carry out preventive work aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises in the public and private sectors, including the municipalities. In teams, NorCERT, NorSIS, Post and Telecommunications, Credit Supervision and other sector actors, in cooperation with private actors, make a significant effort to strengthen IT security in the country. As I said, we take seriously what is pointed out by the National Audit Office, which is reinforced and underlined by the Committee. Some measures have been put in place. We're dealing with others, and I'm going to come back to Stortinget in my own way during the year to report results when it applies to the additional conditions mentioned in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e346	Let me also say that the administrative audit carried out here is absolutely necessary, and we welcome it. An initial consideration of the IT structure must be that we face two sets of challenges. Firstly, we are facing a technology development that is becoming more and more complicated for many, and it could affect us much more than other types of attacks on society's businesses. We've become more vulnerable, and we may have a feeling -- and a real situation -- that technology is reasonably inaccessible. It makes sure that the administrative audit and referrals which the Committee is now making are of particular importance and are to be taken seriously. That's the one. The second challenge, which is to a large extent linked to the first, is the question of responsibility. Not identifying where the responsibility lies, having a ambiguity of responsibility, is one of the main challenges we face in relation to the security of society and the vulnerability situation. The fact that responsibility is powdered in many areas where we are fighting to increase the security of society, as the Riksaudition actually points to, and the committee leader, in my opinion, gives a good description of, is one of our greatest challenges. The responsibility must not be powdered. I notice that the National Audit Office's investigations show that the authorities' work on IT security is influenced by many actors and unclear responsibilities. A clarification of the coordination and sectoral responsibilities of the departments is now under investigation by the Minister of Renewal in an interministerial working group, and the Ministry of Justice is also actively involved. And everyone has a great interest in clarifying this responsibility, not only for those who are to be responsible, but also, of course, for those who do not have the same kind of responsibility or the same overall responsibility as other actors. In other words, we have a great interest in clarifying this responsibility in order to optimise safety work. I would also like to emphasise that IT security in particular, and ensuring critical infrastructure in general, is primarily a sector responsibility that follows the principle of responsibility. This means that responsibility for securing critical infrastructure lies with the owner and/or the infrastructure operator. Thus, this responsibility is not separated as a separate subject area detached from the other responsibilities within one sector. That is why it is important, especially for us in the Ministry of Justice, to go actively into this work in order to clarify the question of responsibility, so that ambiguity does not paralyze us unnecessarily. The Committee's order and requirement to return to the Grand Duchy quickly, and during 2006, is, as the Minister of Renewal was now involved, a work that will be given high priority. It will of course also be complied with against Stortinget. In relation to the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, I will contribute to the high priority given to this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e361	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e369	The cancellation is then ready to vote on the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-02.ana.ud1419e512	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
