ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e40	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Cooperation for working well over the past year, but also with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Nordic community is a community in values. It's a social model, or vision, that we're trying to realize in our Nordic countries. Therefore, it is also primarily through everyday work and the patient – sometimes slow – work that we profile the Nordic region and give the cooperation content. Nordic cooperation has also had an international dimension following the fall of the Berlin Wall. Cooperation with the Baltics and the Russians has increased considerably. At the same time, we need Norway and Iceland to have channels into the EU system, which sometimes also characterise the work. It is important for us to have good contact with the European Union and the European Parliament. We are not getting good results and political focus in the north, on Arctic cooperation and on Barents cooperation without having the whole Nordic region and the European Union with us. The northern dimension of the EU provides a common basis for promoting political dialogue and concrete cooperation. The EU-Russia relationship is characterised by considerable activity, but less by concrete results. Areas of cooperation in economic, internal and external security and science, education and culture have been established. Within the economy, the establishment of an open and integrated market between the EU and Russia is under way. It's a big challenge. The EU is heavily dependent on energy supplies from Russia and is therefore vulnerable to changes in Russian positions. The agreement between Russia and Germany on a gas pipeline contributes to this. Norway's and Europe's relations with Russia will have a major impact on the further development of our part of the world. The challenges ahead will be how, through the Nordic Council, we will further develop the dialogue and concrete cooperation with the northern areas, the Arctic Council and the Barents Council, and help to ensure that the Nordic region continues to be a driving force in regional cooperation in the northern regions. The Nordic budget is well worth 800 million. Danish Krone. It's too small to count. Investing in cooperation between countries and resolving issues for the benefit of citizens in peace and deportability will cost something. I have managed the work of the Budget Group for a few years, and we still have some challenges in the drafting of the budget paper itself. The content is, as I said, subject to debate every year. The budget document is too small to be transparent. It is almost impossible to get an overview of how much money actually goes to the different projects. There's money moving around in the budget. One year they're in one budget line, another year not, but if you're looking well, you might find that there's the status quo on a number of items. For example, the money requested by the representative, Fredriksen, is in another post and has about the same level of appropriations as last year. It's not easy to understand. Another issue that I think the Council of State has to stress is that the trade ministers have to have a greater ownership of the Nordic budget, and they have to follow the money they get, all the way into the Nordic Council. The impression now is that this takes care of the officials. It is good that we have them, but if it is to become more visible how Nordic money is used, the procedures must be changed: ownership of the budget needs to be increased. Different departments must also be more involved in assisting NGOs wishing to obtain funds from the Nordic pot. A number of NGOs have projects in relation to Russia. It may seem that there have been urgent conditions for NGOs to operate in Russia. It must also be one of the important issues in the dialogue with Russia in the future. The northern dimension is a concept that we have a responsibility to fill with content. These days the European Parliament shall examine a report on the northern dimension and, unfortunately, the Members of the European Parliament are not concerned with the challenges in the northern regions. According to Diane Wallis, who has worked with the northern dimension of the EU, interest in the Baltic Sea stops. Therefore, the final document on the northern dimension to be completed and signed by the EU, Russia, Norway and Iceland in November must contain clear projects in the north, which also commit economically. Everything else just becomes great plans, new and lots of words and get results. I agree with both Inge Ryan and Dagfinn Høybräten when they call for more attention to be paid to Nordic cooperation. That is why I also believe that the most important thing on the agenda ahead for the Norwegian Presidency of the Council must be the northern regions in a broad sense: practical results and the removal of frontier barriers between our countries. The Ombudsman for Barriers is now at the disposal of the Nordic Council bodies on a proposal from the current President, Ole Stavad. It is good that there can be political agreement on this, and the challenge will be whether the Council of Ministers will support this and thus also fund such a scheme. Ivar Kristiansen mentioned in his article an opinion poll that has now been conducted in the Nordic countries and is presented this week. There is the main message that the citizens of the Nordic region want Nordic cooperation, and that eight out of ten know about the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. In addition, a clear majority of the population – the voters – believe that cooperation should be developed. In particular, citizens have expectations for cooperation on environmental protection and crime prevention. It is also an interesting result that, on questions about which country your country is going to cooperate with in the long term, citizens in each of the Nordic countries are giving priority to cooperation with the other Nordic countries, and then with the EU. The figures are highest for both categories in Denmark and Norway, i.e. the country with the largest participation in the EU by the Nordic countries, and abroad Norway. It shows that European cooperation is not in any contrast to Nordic cooperation. It is a cross of thought that the interest in the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation is greater in other corners of the world than at home. It's also reflected in the media. Nordic cooperation is well anchored in grassroots, and Nordic countries score high on all international statistics on living conditions and economic sizes. A call for the media will therefore be followed more closely by the political workshop of the Nordic Council session, but also by the work done throughout the year. I hope for future Nordic cooperation that has the northern dimension, and that in a year's time we'll be able to stand here and tell you more results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e74	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e77	I think the representative Brøbby had an interesting article in many ways. Especially interesting was what she said about the northern regions and the importance of Nordic countries focusing on and cooperating with Russia. This is a most topical and important area for the Nordic countries. We see that the Nordic countries contribute significant sums to different projects in Russia. Something is done, and other things are not done, even if the money is set off. The cleaning of the nickel plant in Nikel at the Norwegian border in Russia is an example of this. We have set aside considerable sums – approx. 300 million. kr – while the nickel mill is running, it sucks. Russia, too, is going down. At the same time, we see that it is difficult for Norwegian companies to get into Russia. Does the representative, Mr Brørby, agree that we need to think again about the way we are working against Russia, in order to get an impact on what we in the Nordic countries think is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e86	I can answer that very briefly. I'll answer yes. I think we need to approximate our cooperation with Russia from multiple approaches. I think we haven't been ringing, so at least we tried in many ways to get a better dialogue, and that's what we've achieved. But I think that Putin might be partying the grip a little now, especially in relation to the NGOs, in Russia, and that we have a challenge there in terms of opening up a little bit to them together, in order to get the impression that it is important that this grassroots cooperation, and not least man-to-man and woman-to-woman cooperation in Russia, can get a new momentum. So the answer is yes, but there are several ways to do it. As far as Nikel is concerned, I think the Nordic budget is fairly modest in relation to the challenges there. It is the country’s contribution that has contributed to the development of the area there. The question is whether to continue this appropriation in relation to making money as it is. I guess that's one thing for Stortinget in the next round, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e95	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e98	The 2006 Nordic Council Natural and Environmental Prize was awarded to Professor and author Bogi Hansen from the Faroe Islands for a long-standing and highly respected professional work in climate research. He has, among other things, overall data on changes in ocean flows that are currently unique to understand the impact of climate change on ocean circulation. This means, among other things: research on marine flows and the risk of changes in the Gulf Stream. Understanding that the ocean currents in the major ocean depths are a very important factor for the climate system, it is alarming and probably frightening that Bogi Hansen has revealed that the flow of deep, cold water from the arctic struts into the Atlantic and thus into the world oceans has been reduced by about a quarter. 20 pst. in the last 50 years. This is a development that has accelerated in recent years! With this as a hindrance, it is therefore very gratifying that in the international polar year, which starts in the spring of 2007, 300 million bets are to be made. SEK in research over three years, including: to look at the connection of polar ocean and golf current. This is a work that both me and the Nordic Council are very concerned about, and on which we have a focus. The vast majority of major environmental challenges can only be solved in close interaction between nations. Unique Nordic cooperation is a very important tool in environmental work. It is therefore very important and gratifying that through the 2005-2008 Environment Action Programme, the Nordic Council of Ministers has highlighted the need to disseminate knowledge about the effects of climate change on the marine environment and their impact on the natural and cultural environment in the Nordic region. The Environment and Natural Resources Committee has taken the initiative to ensure that we already have to take account of the fact that climate in the future can create problems for the development of roads, residential areas, ports, etc. We have promoted such a case for the session in Copenhagen next week. The Nordic Council, the Arctic Council and the strong focus of the Barents Council on the Arctic are very important. There have been many speakers here today. The Arctic regions are now experiencing one of the most extensive climate change on earth. This, of course, is of primary importance to the population and nature of the Arctic regions. However, the ACIA report from the Arctic Council demonstrates in a comprehensive way how a warmer climate in the Arctic will affect the global climate, among others. through higher sea levels, changes in sea streams, to which there is a risk, and the release of greenhouse gases by temperature rise in water. The Nordic Council is also strongly involved in our neighbourhoods. Through the cooperation programme with North-West Russia, which is also mentioned today, and the follow-up to the northern dimension in the EU, we have a framework for political contact and cooperation. The committee I chair at the Nordic Council, the Environment and Natural Resources Committee, has recently been on a comprehensive journey in Northern Russia. Then one experiences in a powerful way how important Nordic money is in securing work in order to prevent contamination from e.g. Coal nuclear power stations, which constitute the greatest pollution hazard. This also applies to participation in the cleaning up of unimaginable quantities and very dangerous nuclear waste at Kola, very close to the borders of the Nordic countries. Nordic money is also used in a number of other areas, and I refer to the line change that was just a moment ago. The close cooperation of the Nordic Council with the Baltic countries has played a major role in the development of these countries. Close cooperation on the environment in the Baltic Sea in recent years has also had an important impact on a sea area in crisis, as it is actually the Baltic Sea. I'm not going to go into it anymore. Similarly, we have had a sustained and very strong commitment to the very unfortunate conditions of the Sellafield plant in the United Kingdom. We have also initiated a stronger common Nordic commitment to biofuels in cars to reduce emissions of harmful greenhouse gases, but also to ensure that we can cross the borders of the Nordic countries with our biodriven cars without risking that there are no filling stations on the other side of the border. And as a reference to the Norwegian power situation, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers are working well together to develop the Nordic electricity market in order to achieve a level playing field, a higher level of security of supply, environmental friendliness and good cross-border exchanges. In general and finally, as many have mentioned before today, the Nordic Council of Ministers has a strong need to keep a clear eye on the benefits and effects of the work on the citizens of the Nordic countries and our neighbourhoods. There is a reminder that we all need to take inward into our work in the Nordic Council. But the results of the Nordic Council work are overwhelming, no matter which region in the world we had to compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e131	Nordic cooperation can be so often. If the political will is present in the parliament of each country, the Nordic Council can be an interesting arena. But we also know that it can be very quick to become bureaucratic and forward-looking, and no ties with what is adopted in the Nordic Council, and follow-up in the various parliaments. For the Progress Party, it is important that Nordic cooperation works. Since Norway’s last presidency, in 2002, Nordic government cooperation has apparently systematically tried to remove border barriers between Nordic countries. The Nordic Presidency has made this work a central response, without me thinking that Norway's population has noticed any significant changes in the barriers to trade. Here I feel Norway is a brake pad, but we are now going to have a driving role on this issue, according to the Council of State. The Nordic Council's work is not fortunate to keep getting away with the Soup Council stamp. It is the responsibility of the government at all times, and now the government should act as a door opener for good cooperation in the Nordic region in order to avoid such a stamp in the future. On page 74 of the Storing Message, it says: ‘Norwegian regimes have developed a good cooperation with Russian border regimes on all border issues in the north.’ It doesn't match how people most experience border crossings and control in their everyday lives, which has been discussed by several speakers here. The economy and the people most experience it as a rigid and bureaucratic system with too many restrictions, a system that prevents trade and interaction in the northern regions. Simplification and smoother border crossing to and from Russia needs to be put in place, the North Region bet will be slightly more than rhetoric. The self - rousing bigotry message is in stark contrast with the real world. I have observed that a common power market in the Nordic region – as an example – works very well, and cannot understand that one cannot learn from this model in other areas. This works, we all see it, by coordinating cross-border policy and seeing what works in the other Nordic countries. We also see that e.g. police and rescue cooperation works very well. The free labour market in the Nordic region is an illusion. I have been contacted by a dubious Northman who works in a company in Malmö with the whole world as a responsibility. He's got a Swedish company car that he's using all over Europe, even around the world. But when he is going to visit his Norwegian customers, he is not allowed to use the Swedish registered company car. He has to park it on Swinesund and rent a car. Another point is the efforts of Norwegian politicians in the Nordic Council on the Barents region and Russia by being proposers and drivers on important points, such as combating the spread of HIV and AIDS and multi-resistant tuberculosis. This I hope is a work that we can continue with. There we also see that we can do a good job. The Progress Party believes that it is natural to also look at the efficiency, rationalisation of work and resources used in the Nordic Council in relation to Norwegian citizens. As a new member of the Progress Party of the Nordic Council, I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that the group is 25 pst. by Norway’s delegation, is effectively excluded from all decision-making or decision-making bodies, often because of a regulatory decision-making body, but also because different parties want it. It is also important here to have democratic processes and respect them. I'm going to talk about Nordic Brotherhood, and I think most people here have been involved, and then you also have to include the Advance Party in Nordic cooperation and not put 25 pst. by the Norwegian delegation at a time. You can't just stand here and talk nice about breading in the Nordic countries, but you have to start with the Brotherhood in the Great Hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e158	The final declaration of the Arctic Council Conference in Kiruna in August focused on a Nordic initiative to promote the social and human dimension of Arctic cooperation. Several of the starters of the conference pointed to how climate change and environmental change will affect people's living conditions in the northern regions. We know that nomadic tribes in the East, in Russia, live in fear that climate change will affect their way of life, making it difficult to maintain a traditional nomadic way of life. The Institute of Marine Research and the Norwegian Polar Institute has long pointed out that climate change will only take place in the northern regions. The Arctic and Svalbard are particularly exposed. At the same time, researchers point out that the northern areas are affected long before climate change has a radical impact on the way of life in southern Nordic regions. It is important to have both a political and a research perspective on these challenges, precisely because many people in the north are living on a nature-based economic basis. I have listened with interest to representatives of the Russian networks when they describe the dependence of their people on the nature of the tundra, while describing good and constructive cooperation between the oil and gas companies and the local authorities, a cooperation that was referred to at the Barents Conference in spring as an area of agreement where both the local population and industrial interests have jointly come up with good solutions. That is what was said, and I listened very carefully. The 2007–08 International Polar Year offers us a unique opportunity at national level to explore both research resources and resources for general information on social developments in the Arctic. In isolation, it can be said that Norway, as a traditional polarization, must use the polar year to bring the polar heritage to light, give our youth knowledge of the work and research results of the polar heroes and, on a general basis, raise the awareness of the Norwegian people about polar struts and polar expeditions. If Norway is to maintain its leading polarization status, and we should, we should continue to do so on the research side, a work that otherwise enjoys great international recognition. Our research stations at Svalbard are exciting. We also need to use these to create curiosity and interest among young people to use the polar regions for weather and climate research and to give young people the desire to participate in and reveal the geological secrets of the polar regions. Here, there is much to be gained in Nordic cooperation, and it is positive that the Nordic Council has set up youth initiatives as a priority area for the Barents Council and the Regional Council. From my point of view, it seems that the Nordic Council has succeeded best in the cases where special areas of cooperation have been selected, instead of spreading it all over the world. This I think is the way to go in the future as well. Such a pointed bet has made individual areas more visible and made understanding both among the people most and in the media that Nordic cooperation is a win-win cause for all participating parties. And in the case of the north, our big neighbor in the east is the main partner to have on the team. It is enough to mention keywords such as marine resource use, oil and gas and the environmental challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e175	When the Stortinge discusses Nordic cooperation today, I will take the opportunity to give recognition to this cooperation. I don't think Nordic cooperation gets that recognition it should. Even questions have been raised about whether this formalised cooperation should continue. I shall describe Nordic cooperation as very important and quite unique in the international context. I can't see so many other areas in the world where we have succeeded in creating such a relationship between nations and neighbours as we have achieved in the Nordic region through Nordic cooperation. This is important to take care of even in the time to come. In Nordic cooperation, there are many important issues on the agenda, which also concern countries outside our geographical area, but which most affect us in the Nordic region. I myself am in the Committee of Citizens and Consumers of the Nordic Council. Here we have a strong focus on, for example: organised crime and trafficking in human beings. This theme is almost continuously on the agenda, and the Nordic governments are very constructively taking part in the debate on the solutions outlined by the sample. This shows how important Nordic cooperation is as an important arena to address issues that affect both Nordic citizens and people elsewhere in the world, and I think people in the Nordic countries are aware of this, as the representative Brørby was. We also know that cooperation in the field of transport and the environment, the reduction of border barriers, cultural tasks, etc. has given concrete results, and I recall that the Foreign Minister today said that a visa agreement has now been concluded with Russia. This shows that it produces results. I have noticed that young people in the Nordic countries have a great commitment to Nordic cooperation. This promises very well and is something we have to take care of and develop further. After all, it's the young people who are going to carry on this work, and their commitment is of maximum value. That's why I want to warn those who want to minimize the importance of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic countries have so decidedly used such cooperation, no matter how many cooperation groupings we otherwise had to participate in. I am pleased that the Nordic regions and what they have to say for the Nordic countries and for Europe have been given a broad place in Nordic cooperation. In the north we have great opportunities for growth and development, but we also have challenges to solve. We still have a huge welfare gap between the North and Russia. Here I would like to mention in particular the particularly difficult situation of indigenous peoples on the Russian side. This is a relationship that I have been given the opportunity to look closely, and for which no one can close their eyes. Much more needs to be done here to improve people's well-being and opportunities for work and personal income. The Barents and Arctic Councils are an important part of the relationship, and I am pleased that the Committee so clearly clarifies this in its position. Finally, let me mention the Nordic Association, which is a strong contributor to strengthening Nordic identity and cooperation by disseminating knowledge, experiences and solutions. I was in August at the Nordic North Callott Conference in Bodø. This was a big Nordic conference. There were a lot of people from all over the Nordic region, and there was a lot of commitment to important Nordic issues. Here were both business people, researchers, local politicians and not least representatives of local teams of the Nordic Association. We were not so many parliamentarians present, but I would like to say for myself that I had a very great benefit from meeting so many engaged Nordic friends. I think it's important that in the future we show a greater interest in the important work done by the Nordic Association, especially at a time when so much attention is focused on what's happening in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e191	It is gratifying that all the parties on the Stortinget stand behind the comments on this communication, and it shows that the work done by the Nordic Council is of great importance. I particularly want to thank the representatives of the Progress Party for constructive dialogue on this matter. That's what matters. In the end, I would like to say that there is no doubt that we will continue to work together at the Nordic Council. The challenges in the north and Arctic cooperation make it very important to have a comprehensive management plan for the whole area, with all the themes that have been up today. Secondly, work on frontier barriers where individuals need help and where businesses need help to move on in smooth processes. This work must also be intensified, preferably with a Nordic Ombudsman. Finally, Nordic cooperation is an important instrument for European policy. In fact, the Nordic Council can be a driving force for individuals and for the development of democracy and human rights in our neighbourhoods. We've been talking about Russia and Belarus today. The Nordic Council shall continue to be a driving force for cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e200	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Two and three. [[Food, see page 329]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e216	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 329]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e232	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 329]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e252	The President assumed that the interpellant would be in place immediately. Anniken Huitfeldt, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e257	The most crucial factor for quality in school is the teacher. Therefore, the NOCUT report on general teacher training was a serious reading. While teacher training before was an education that could provide teachers with professional security for years to teach at school, today’s teacher training must be a platform for lifelong learning. Today’s teachers still have to deal with new knowledge, research on new working methods, and thus have good cooperation with the scientific field. Those who are going to work in a learning organisation that is constantly catching up on knowledge outside the school need a lot of competence. It sets new requirements for teachers. The 2002 evaluation showed that education has not developed its own science. Educational theories on learning skills have been developed by others outside of teacher training. The new NOCUT panel believes that, despite the demands for research and change and development skills in teacher training, there are, however, very wide differences between institutions, both in research understanding and in the scope of research. The NOKUT report also shows that several institutions face major challenges in bringing together the full range of competences required for education and research to be of high quality in all disciplines. Kristin Clemet, former Minister of Education, has said that we can't believe that the teachers are supposed to be thousands of artists. I am too much of a specialist in the subject and the year. The situation for general school teachers is that they must teach in many subjects, partly without specialisation, and in some cases also completely without a background in the subject of education. This is obviously unfortunate in a society that strongly demands expertise, the NOCUT Panel believes. When we know that many teachers lack depression in mathematics, but still teach the subject of youth, it may not be so strange that the level of knowledge is not as high as expected. It's not useful to be a very powerful teacher, if he's not professionally safe. Teacher training is broad, while the schools on their side specialize more and more in the different ages of students. But it seems that this broad field makes it more difficult for each teacher to meet the quality requirements, and it may have helped to ensure that the quality of each educational institution is not good enough. The evaluation panel proposes better dimensioning of general teacher training in Norway, including: by assessing a broad division of labour and profiling between educational institutions. According to the students, there are considerable variations in the subject areas of education in vocational education, pedagogical theory and practice. It is necessary to clarify the relationship between these three elements. There's a lot of variation between the subjects and the different apprenticeships. There's too much randomness. Teacher training is far from life in the classroom. The NOKUT Panel believes that the relationship between theory and practice is weak and that management at many institutions does not follow the practice offer well enough. This is reflected, for example, in: in that the continuous development of primary education is not reflected in the teaching of educational institutions. What most teachers do when they start school is not to meet the students, but to meet the parents. While teachers practice meeting students, they have few professional tools to work with at home. It is serious because homes are becoming increasingly demanding. The Panel proposes five-year general teacher training. I think that the five-year master's studies in many educations are a good offer, and that it should be further developed, but I think we should think through what reforms we put in place only when it comes to the education of teachers. I also fear that too much focus on structure ignores the basic problems presented in the report: lack of contact with everyday school life, lack of knowledge about how new scientific findings can be used in education, and lack of depression. Moreover, professional follow-up in the first few years may be more important than several years of training that is not good enough. It is precisely the reference to the classroom that is one of the major weaknesses of today's education. A sample in the Labour Party therefore proposes one semester of follow-up in the job for the first five years as a newly educated teacher and then one semester every ten years. The last proposal I see is that the Right Party, completely independent of the Workers' Party, has also presented. The left has proposed one year of continuing education every seven years. I think we do well to give priority to what we think is most important, first. The NOCUT report proposes a number of qualitative improvements on the content of teacher training. We know from other school reforms that focusing on structure quickly removes attention from content. That is why, in the interpellation of the Council of State, I ask questions about the cost of the various measures we are proposing to increase the competence of teachers. There are some aspects of general teacher training that are somewhat alarming when the Stortingen discusses this. The reason for this is that many reforms in recent years have led to very many goals. The guiding principle of teacher training has resulted in many cross-cutting objectives. An example of Storting’s leadership is the decision here in this room that it should be sung in all subjects of teacher training. It was a nice move. I know that the Council of State also focuses on the musical aspects of teacher training. But we have to limit what measures we are taking. We should therefore learn from the discussion about the promise of knowledge. We must give priority to the most important and not add even more objectives to teacher training. Increased specialisation is therefore the way to go. Norwegian teachers are very good, but even a good teacher can't do everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e308	The representative, Huitfeldt, addresses a question of fundamental importance, which covers many dimensions and therefore requires a thorough debate. Before answering the first part of Huitfeldt's question, I would like to briefly say something in general about the follow-up of the National Quality Education Agency's report, in short, NOCUT. Then I would like to comment in particular on the recommendations in the evaluation of greater specialisation between institutions. These conditions are important for the assessment of the financial costs of the two options explicitly mentioned in the interpellation. The NOCUT evaluation panel has provided a number of assessments on how to enhance the quality of general teacher training. In some areas, the evaluation gives such clear indications of weakness as to the urgency of taking concrete action. Locally, the individual teacher training institution itself needs to address many of the challenges highlighted in the evaluation, such as the organisation and management of education, lack of practicality and tougher requirements for students. So this doesn't have to wait for any further signal from the Council of State to launch. National governments also address these challenges. The 2007 draft state budget allocates 11 million. kr for new projects. One project is the testing of regional models for improved cooperation between teacher education and school and kindergarten owners. Another is the development of better practice models. These measures are in addition to other ongoing investments totalling 25.7 million. kr. I have also signaled that it is natural to look at the current structure and framework of general teacher training, primarily with a view to formalising, where appropriate, requirements for specialisation of the general teacher’s competence against the years and courses of primary school. The NOCUT evaluation panel poses a problem for today’s situation where 20 teacher training institutions offer approximately four-year general teacher training. The sample considers that the current structure and framework should be considered. The Evaluation Panel calls for regional cooperation to develop various professionally profiled general teacher training courses that together meet national needs. It is also recommended to extend to five-year teacher training. The evaluation panel believes that an extension of education, inter alia: can provide better coherence and space for professional-specific elements through major parts of education and a more significant emphasis on R & D. An extension of the timeframe will also be appropriate for greater level of specialisation. I agree with the evaluation panel when it is highlighted as problematic that general teachers are put into teaching subjects in which they are not trained. The previous reform of general teacher training, in 2002, made two years compulsory. In the last two years, students can make independent choices. Professional and level differentiation was partially introduced, but on a voluntary basis, based on the student’s choices and the institution’s offerings. The possible differentiation of qualifications requirements for vocational and/or secondary education has consequences both for the higher education institutions and for the school that needs to be further explored. A greater degree of division of labour and professional profiling of the various general teacher training courses will involve demanding work, including in the context of continuing four-year training. Any extension of general teacher training to five years would require thorough assessments, in particular of economic and practical consequences. Both nationally and locally, this has to be done, inter alia. a more detailed dimensioning of the learning needs addressed to different levels and subjects is considered. Teacher training institutions must assess their own profile and offer structure, given their professional and economic framework and recruitment basis. For smaller institutions, it will be particularly professional to be able to develop a satisfactory wide range of services, which may be accredited at master level. For students, it becomes more important to make qualified choices because the educational profile can be more governing job opportunities than before. The evaluation panel has not assessed the option of six months of further training within five years of work in the school, as the representative Huitfeldt takes up in the interpellation. In part, this is a matter which was raised in the context of the teacher education message in 2002, St.meld. No 16 for 2001-2002, Quality reform on new teacher training Many – demanding – relevant. Here, however, the discussion was linked to a sabbatical year for all teachers, which the ministry did not want to investigate at the time. Some of the issues identified at the time as unexplained were the need for temporary workers, whether the scheme should be an individual right, whether teachers or school owners should determine the professional arrangements for continuing training, the costs of the model and the priorities between different cost-intensive measures. In addition, there may be more practical conditions for both school owners, teachers and educational institutions that may need to be assessed in more detail. At the same time, a model that combines education and work has many aspects that can improve the quality of teaching. A strategy for developing skills in initial training 2005–08 helps us to gain experience in such models. In order to assess the practical, professional and economic impact of the various proposals mentioned above, good dialogue with the central national actors, such as the University and Higher Education Council, teacher and student organisations and the KS, is necessary. Furthermore, it will be necessary to identify different models of any more differentiated four- or five-year general teacher training. In this context, it would also be appropriate to consider other options, such as: a system of six months of continuing education after a few years of work at school. In order not to prejudge such a possible investigation process, I would like to make sure that the estimates I present here are very preliminary. The Ministry has assumed that a coal with graduates constitutes about 2,000 general teachers. Furthermore, three variables of great economic importance have been considered for the two options in question. These are: (a) costs of teacher training institutions; (b) borrowing costs; (c) wage costs of teachers taking part in further training; If we first look at the option of extending general teacher education to five years, it is estimated to give about 170 million. NOK in extra costs per year. year of the training institutions linked to the establishment of additional places of study. And then we're going to have about 42 million. kr in increased study finance costs per year. years. The loan box assumes that approx. 76 pst. of the students would like such funding. The annual additional cost of extending general teacher training to five years therefore amounts to approximately 212 million. kr. If we look at the corresponding figures for the continuing education option, the costs of institutions for study places will be about 85 million. kr. This suggests that all graduates make use of the offer, which is probably a bit high. The cost of full pay under educational leave is estimated at about 500 million. kr, which is the cost-driven element of the continuing training option. Thus, the total annual extra cost of six months of paid continuing education for general school teachers has been estimated at about 585 million. kr per. student coal. This is about 373 million. kr more than for a five-year training course. None of these estimates are final or exhaustive. An additional cost factor that will be significant is that both options increase the capacity needs of the school. In other words, the teachers who qualify for school work will be available to the school for fewer years than today’s graduates. This applies regardless of whether longer basic or additional continuing training is introduced. We know that in the coming years, there will in any case be a need for more teachers because of increasing infantile and high-retirement leave among teachers. A more comprehensive cost calculation of the two options we are discussing here will therefore have to calculate the capacity needs of the number of teachers in the school. Substantial costs will be incurred for such an increase in educational capacity, if any, in order to complement the teaching population with several years of teaching. NOW’S evaluation clearly indicates that we need a general teacher training that is better than today’s success in meeting the challenges in school. We must therefore carefully consider what should be the content of education, before we go on looking at the organisation, structure and length of education. This will in case require thorough investigations of both a four-year and a five-year model, as well as the proposal for continuing training some years after completion of education. I am therefore prepared to take both the alternative approach outlined by the representative Huitfeldt and, if necessary, other points of view that had to emerge in today's debate with me in the further work. Before I finish, let me again stress – and I ask for understanding – that the department must at this point be careful with the financial estimates. These estimates, as said, have many possible sources of error in themselves, but they give an indication of the cost of the different options outlined. As you know, it is possible to think of alternatives other than those that Huitfeldt's representative took up in his interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e358	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. The first state council did when he got in the chair, of course, was increasing the number of places in general teacher training. It was important. I think he also now shows a very great ability and willingness to take seriously the objections that come to the general teacher training from NOKUT. That's what's needed. Teacher training has been through many reforms in recent years. Now it requires that we focus on content, that we focus on professional immersion, on proximity to practice and use of science. I'm sure the Council of State has these abilities to follow up on this in time to come. I am also pleased that the Council of State sees the link between general teacher training and the actions we take in relation to continuing training. One thing is the cost side, and therefore it's important that we see these things in context. We need to see this in a broad perspective, where we see the different instruments in the context in order to strengthen the knowledge among the teachers. At the outset, I said that the Stortinget has shown a certain zeal in managing the content of teacher training, by learning a lot of lyrics in the various subjects of general teacher training. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that I have learned the song: when the clock sounded, as soon as we jumped.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e369	It is possible that the Council of States can next strove.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e372	... and no one stood and hung. Let me underline the same point as Professor Hansén, who led the NOCUT evaluation panel, highlighted in the presentation of the NOCUT report, namely that the teaching profession is one of the most important professions in our society. And the teacher training as such is one of the most important education we have. Let me stress this, because the interest the Stortinget has shown in teacher training through generations is a genuine interest in improving the quality of teacher training, so that teachers get better and that our kids get more quality and more knowledge in school. I think it is very commendable that the representative Huitfeldt will address this debate after NOKUT's report. For it is true that the NOCUT report provides a basis for many reflections and, in particular, what may be the most important thing; new measures to improve teacher training. I see the debate on the content, dimension and structure of teacher training as an important debate in which all actors are really concerned about the same, namely that teacher training should be strengthened, the quality of teachers should be increased and the quality of school should thus be improved. Our students will learn more and become even better and more beneficial people, as it is called in the old law. I also understand that, through the process initiated by the NOCUT evaluation panel, we have launched a wide-ranging debate on this which will lead to a change in teacher training. I've been very careful to say that we have to start this discussion with the content of education and not the length. I don't do that to say that I'm necessarily rejecting an eventual five-year master's degree as a teacher, but we have to be sure that we know what we want, and in what direction we're going. I agree with Professor Hansén and the evaluation panel for NOKUT's observation that it is unfortunate that we have teachers in school today who teach in subjects they themselves have not had lessons in. This is an obvious weakness in today's teacher education system. This means that many teachers today obviously need to fill their skills, and we need many new teachers who need a broader competence, but also a specialised competence in many important subjects. Take real science as an example, where the Government has a comprehensive work to strengthen the real skills of all parts of the education. This will, of course, require teachers with more specialised skills, and it will require a combination of continuing education and training. So let me emphasize the point that whatever we do with teacher training, the main emphasis of the teachers we have is going to be the teachers we have. That means that the changes we're discussing here will apply to our teachers' children only in a few years' time will benefit. The main emphasis of the teachers that we have in school for years to come will be the teachers we have. Therefore, we must not take this discussion of general teacher training isolated from how we strengthen the competence of those teachers who already have their place in school. Fortunately, there are many dedicated, committed and knowledge-rich teachers, and they should also be given the opportunity to fill in quality and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e385	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important issue — at least a very important focus — namely the report that has strongly criticised general teacher training in Norway. I also believe that the Council of States should have the honour of giving an answer to the interpellation today, which is open and in many ways responsive to different solutions. The NOKUT report is a report of over 400 pages. It is a very thorough report, and it reveals quite obvious wounds and problems in general teacher training. We also have some clear recommendations, and perhaps the most obvious recommendation is that something has to be done about the length of education. I have to admit that I was a little in doubt about the interpellant's motives for promoting the interpellant today, until I got the figures from the Council of State, which shows that an extension from four to five years will cost 212 million. kr, while another solution outlined by the interpellant in the interpellation will be far, far more expensive. In our opinion, it is necessary to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The interpellant says we have to focus on content now, we have to solve the challenges now, so we don't have to focus too much on structural challenges. We think this is related. Yes, we have to act quickly, and the Progress Party spoke as soon as this mid-term report came, in fact, to do something about the content of existing teacher training now. I also expect the Council of State to do that – to focus on the short term. But it must not mean that we should not also focus on the long-term solutions. It is quite clear that general teacher training needs a promise. The most important, simplest and best way to give it the promise is to extend education within the ordinary European degree structure by one year, and also to increase the focus on practicality and coherence between theoretical and practical education. I have to admit that I am not very impressed when the interpellant uses an internal sample from the Workers' Party as a source to say in a way that the NOCUT report's recommendations are not very well thought out. I have significantly greater confidence in the work that NOCUT has done, which is a thorough and good work, in which all of the 20 institutions that have general teacher training today have been reviewed, and come up with the recommendations that I believe that as elected representatives we are obliged to consider a little more than to say that we have an internal selection in our party that means something else. It's important to give priority. It was interpellantly concerned too. But it is important to give priority both in the short and long term. There can be no contradiction between finding good solutions on the content side now and developing a better structure with better content. And just to say that, I'm very happy that the Council of State does not reject five-year master's education as an alternative way of solving general teacher education. I'm glad. I expect that the investigation that finally comes to us will be good and evaluate different alternatives. However, the Progress Party has concluded. We see that in a later case today, where the Progress Party actually proposes to introduce a five-year master's education for general teachers. It is not a new position for the Progress Party, but what is quite new is that it is a position which the Education Association also shares. So that means that the Education Association and the NOKUT report agree with the Advance Party, and that's nice for a change. In other words, the party of progress is acting where the party of interpellant will await. Those who lose that we're not acting now, these are the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e402	Without competent, motivated and ambitious teachers with faith in their seas and with faith in the job they do, we don't get a good school. Without professional pride and raising the status of the teaching profession, we do not get far. Fortunately, we have a lot of good teachers in school today. However, we also receive reports, most recently in the context of the large evaluation of general teacher training presented on 22 September, that we have challenges in the education of teachers. Very briefly, the evaluation indicates that more is needed. More subjects, more management and more didactics are needed. Education must and must facilitate an active knowledge culture, which teachers take with them into their professional life when they have become teachers. Schools need to become more learning organisations and an important basis for success in teacher training. In 2002, the previous government presented a new general teacher education adopted by the Stortinget. Already in 1991, the Right came in for step-by-step teacher training. The main intervention in 2002 was greater specialisation and depression, as we had gradually been well documented that the key prerequisites for good teaching skills are professional security. We introduced, for strong protests from, among others, SV, moderate admission requirements for general teacher training. The recent evaluation confirms that it was a proper approach and opens up the possibility of tightening the recording requirements. The students themselves also ask for clearer demands to be made in the course of the study. There are assessments that the right-hand side of the equation is in. However, an interesting point in the evaluation is that many teacher training institutions still teach as if the new teacher training does not exist. In other words, the intention of the new education, which would make teachers more specialists than generalists, is not followed up well enough everywhere. Many of the points highlighted in the 2002 evaluation have still not been followed up by the institutions. Therefore, NOCUT draws particular attention to the need for stronger specialisation in the study. At the same time, NOKUT is very clear on the need for more and clearer organisation and management of institutions. Among other things, the evaluation states that it is important to report on throughput, non-response and study progress. A number of institutions have identified a lack of control in this respect. It is also recommended – a little on the side of the mandate NOCUT – to extend teacher training from four to five years, to accommodate more subjects, more didactics, more depression and more of what is partly underestimated in school today: management. A teacher is a leader. The new teacher training in 2002 contained a step in the right direction, because it introduced professional skills as part of general teacher training. We must remember that we are still in the midst of a reform. We have not yet seen the first litter from the new teacher training — next year’s graduates. The right is willing to agree to discuss whether we went far enough in 2002, whether it is perhaps the time to take the step fully and introduce a five-year teacher training for all teacher students. A particular problem in teacher training has for many years been a lack or lack of relevance to the field of practice. Many teacher students experience the practicalism. I think it would be interesting if the Council of State could say something about how the experience from other countries affects the assessments he makes, when we know that many other countries have one year of mandatory practice after finishing teacher training before you start teaching as a normal teacher. Teacher training shall contribute to providing teachers with competence, professional security, increased self-confidence and the best conditions for providing students with the best possible benefit from learning. It is important to make demands. It is important to make general teacher training so attractive that education and teaching become a natural first choice for the competent young people around the country. We have to help build the teachers' confidence, but we also have to be able to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. Teacher competence is not only about what is happening at teacher training institutions, but also about what is happening at the level of continuing training. Norwegian teachers are good at further education, but they learn to a small extent in the subjects in which they teach. It's a big problem, and something has to be done about it. In the context of the ‘Knowledge promise’ reform, we have established a historic commitment to empower teachers, but much of Norway’s empowerment is and has been very reform-related for many years. And not so much happens between the blows. I'll give the interpellant praise for having taken up the theme, and I'm excited about the further follow-up from the Government. I'm also a little uncertain about what the government is going to land on, and perhaps especially about the content and requirements of teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e425	In the years to come, we will have a generation change among teachers in Norway. It gives us a challenge to get more people to choose the teaching profession, but at the same time it also gives us a unique opportunity. We can take advantage of the knowledge of experienced teachers, while improving and shaping teacher training. In this way, we can lay the foundation for the 21st century teachers. In autumn, NOCUT presented its evaluation of general teacher training in Norway. The report has shown us that we do not have as good a teacher as we should. This is very serious both for Norwegian school and for the newly educated teachers. The report points to a number of areas where education needs to be improved. Among other things, theory and practice need to be better linked. Criticism of teacher training is not a new historical concept. Teacher training has been criticised throughout its history. The criticism has largely been that education is too theoretical, so that the colleges where the teachers are trained and the schools where they have their practice are like two separate worlds. The issue was actually debated as early as 1894. Professor Peder Haug at the Hochskulen in Volda has pointed out that in no other field is there so widespread that vocational training explains shortcomings in the field for which a teacher is a member of the school. Medical training is not used to explain health problems; engineering training is not used to explain the power crisis, but teacher training is often used as a main explanation when school is not working. Despite the strong governance, we have not yet succeeded in shaping the teacher training we want. An interesting question is therefore whether it is really possible for government authorities to organise themselves to a good school through teacher training. There is no other higher education that has such a high level of direct political governance. It is expressed through the management of both content and working methods in the school where teachers are to work, and through evaluation and teacher training plans. There may be reason to see whether this can act as a passive effect on educational institutions, and whether we have sufficiently succeeded in involving the institutions in the design of our teacher training. The Christian People's Party believes that it is essential that we take the time first and foremost to have a thorough debate on how we want teacher training to be in the 21st century. I don't think there are simple answers to the challenges that the NOCUT evaluation addresses. Today’s interpellation includes parts of NOKUT’s evaluation. Extension of general teacher training by one year and a greater degree of specialisation are important points that need to be discussed in the future, but they will only represent partial solutions to the challenges and not the solution itself. The Christian People's Party will consider specialisation for each of the main steps of the schools: childhood, middle and secondary. As to whether teacher training should be extended to five years, the Christian People’s Party has not yet concluded. The advantage of an extension would be that we would then have room for a master's degree, and that this could give a greater scientific approach to education. At the same time, we'll warn you against thinking that just one is adding an extra year, one will have found the final solution to how we get the teacher education we want. Too often the solution in school has been to pee on with hours, believing that it's an easy way to improve school. I believe that we need to look first and foremost at the content of the four-year teacher training we have today, and then we need to know what to fill any five years. A fifth year must mean strengthening the steps we choose to take for the four already existing years. Only when we have that starting point, it could be fruitful to discuss the fifth year of study. The inconsistency between the theory and practice that NOCUT points to has consequences. Many new graduates feel unsafe in the classroom situation. Getting feedback and recording will make it easier and faster for the newly trained person to become safe on himself. That is why the Christian People's Party has called for the introduction of a mentoring system for newly educated teachers. In concrete terms, this means that newly-trained teachers can be linked to an experienced teacher in the first year of work. In this way, we ensure that we take care of and pass on all the good knowledge with which experienced teachers sit, while at the same time making the transition from being a student to being in the classroom easier for the newly educated teacher. The answer to which teachers we are going to have in the 21st century will at the same time be the answer to the question of who is the good teacher. The good teacher imparts knowledge, education and culture and helps children master, unfold, and social development. It's the teacher of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e446	There is today a searchlight on an important matter. When NOCUT has stated that today’s general teacher training is not a goal, it is only a follow-up. And I think the Council of State did it in an open and good way in the answer to the interpellant. The NOCUT evaluation panel has provided a number of assessments on how to enhance the quality of general teacher training. In some areas, the evaluation gives such clear indications of weaknesses as to the urgency of taking concrete action. Locally, individual teacher training institutions need to address many of the challenges highlighted in the evaluation, such as the organisation and management of education, lack of practicality and tougher requirements for students. It's good that the government takes this up at national level. However, as the Council of State had in mind, in the 2007 draft state budget, 11 million were set aside. kr for new projects. One project is the testing of regional models to improve cooperation between teacher education and school and kindergarten owners. Another is the development of better practice models. Measures are in addition to other ongoing bets and amount to a total of 25.7 million. kr. In the chapter «Conclusions and recommendations», the evaluation committee of NOKUT writes: ‘General teacher training shall prepare the students to teach from the first to the tenth stages. This is a major challenge, both in the 2002 evaluation and in today’s evaluation, and almost an impossibility.’ They also say that according to the 2002 Evaluation Committee, it was found that the newcomers were the best for the middle class. The education program was characterized by so-called ‘discipline’, and there was little room for depression. The evaluation indicated that education should provide room for depression. It is mentioned that this will make education more attractive and interesting for the students. I guess a lot of us also think it'll make them better teachers. Then came a new framework plan in 2003. It was less governing with regard to the number of compulsory subjects, and that in reality means that the scope of action in the institutions has increased in a formal sense. But, says the Evaluation Committee: ‘Despite greater freedom for specialisation and profiling, education is essentially the same in terms of structure and organisation.’ This suggests that the increased space for action is not fully exploited in a way that shows the students that education has a clear context and a conscious profile. - So far from the report. Now, of course, it should be said that it has not been that long since 2003. At the same time, it also says something about heavy organisations, which I don't want to use exactly words like ‘not changeable’ about, but at least things are going very slowly. This must be the first and easiest place to start. This can be taken into account by each institution — and fill the space for action they actually have. And the Evaluation Committee gives clear input in different areas where there is an improvement potential. It is clearly right when the evaluation panel highlights as problematic the fact that general teachers are put into teaching subjects in which they are not trained. The previous reform of general teacher training, in 2002, made two years compulsory. In the last two years, students can make maritime choices. Professional and level differentiation was introduced in part, but on a voluntary basis, based on the choices made by the students and the offers made by the institutions. Interestingly, the Evaluation Committee mentions that almost all teacher training is the same and recommends greater specialisation and more regional cooperation to meet national needs. This must be an exciting challenge for the country’s educational institutions. Any extension of general teacher training to five years will require thorough assessments, in particular of economic and practical consequences. Teacher training institutions must assess their own profile and supply structure, given their professional and economic framework and recruitment basis. One of the many advices given by the Evaluation Committee is just to make the general teacher’s education five years, a master’s degree. It's possible, but maybe the ordinary general teacher's time is over? In one more year's time, it'll be enough for us to really get general teachers for all the steps, it's a question. Maybe it's right to continue with four years of basic education, two plus two years, and then one later will be obliged to take one or two half-years. It will provide professional replenishment, while practical experience will be of great value for the acquisition of new substances. The centre party has not yet concluded this. Obviously, it's not enough to discuss the length of education. We also need to discuss content.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e485	I will, like others who have been on the pulpit, give honey to the interpellant to give the Storting the opportunity to discuss the matter at a relatively early stage. I think that is also useful for the public debate, although the press release is quite empty tonight. This is a very exciting thing, and we in SV are very happy to take hold of it. We haven't concluded on any of the aspects that the interpellant travels on, and it's definitely a theme that we're going to have a thorough debate on. I very much appreciate the answer from the Council of State, both when it comes to the open mind to assess the length of education in relation to continuing education, and when it relates to what we've been very concerned about, just emphasising the content of education rather than anything else. When I hear the debate here today, I think that if I had been a teacher student or I had attended a teacher school, I might think that I had been a little overwhelmed by all the expectations that we have. But in a way, it's also a good thing – we value the teacher as the most important resource in school. You have to bring it with you. In addition to the expectations here today, we also have Hans Schirvheim's old expectation of the formation of the human being that would come out of the school system. It might have a tendency to get away in the public debate. Unfortunately, everything that is bad and difficult in Education-Noreg has given rise to the competence of teachers. It's too simple to end, and I think it's an error ending. Nevertheless, we will take seriously what is stated in the NOCUT report that the evaluation panel’s main impression is that the integration of practice, vocational studies and teaching and pedagogical theory is a major challenge, and that theory and practice seem to be going on in different circles. This is an eternal debate and a debate that we may never be completely concluded on, but something that we must in any case have with us. There has been a main contradiction between having a five-year course of education or using resources for continuing education and training for teachers. Personally, I am afraid that this may overshadow the content debate. This is what we in SV are primarily concerned about. One of the most important elements is the need for closer cooperation between teacher education and schools. Among other things, we have previous school contracts proposed by the Stortinget in practical training. Another important debate is the eternal debate on the relationship between the so-called professional and the more general elements of teacher education, or a little more understandable: the relationship between pedagogical, pedagogical and professional practices and disciplines – or in Norwegian: the relationship between learning, or learning to be a teacher, on the one hand, and the expertise of the other – and preferably not on the other hand, but integrated into one and the same person. Recent teacher education: According to the NOKUT report, more recent teacher education shows quite clearly that it is the pedagogy that is most decisive for the berepowers of the teaching profession, and that brilliant people who know their profession are not necessarily teachers. But this is a balance. We're forced to balance right. I'm afraid we're going from one ditch to the other if we can't find the good balance. We need teachers who have both good expertise and master the many crinkle hooks in pedagogics. The debate referred earlier to professor of pedagogics at the high school in Volda Peder Haug, who has written some interesting reflections about the latest NOKUT report. Just when it comes to this subject, I thought that we should be smoky enough to take over the technical debate that is in the environment, on methodology and the like. The main point of Peder Haug is that instead of putting in action the hasty measures should take time and resources to find the reasons why what is not good enough, it is not. That's what I thought it was worth borrowing. Similarly, the evaluation panel has highlighted the need to create a professional discussion that can contribute to professional clarification and, preferably, to a common perception of the professional nature of teacher training and the profession of teacher. It is an unconcluded debate. Maybe it's a debate where one with a modern knowledge vision and learning vision doesn't necessarily have to draw sloppy conclusions. But anyway, there's a professional and political discussion that's worth keeping alive, because it in itself helps to raise the quality and attention in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e511	To start on a historical basis: it's been almost 120 years since Johan Sverdrup and Johannes Steen turned primary school into primary school. It was followed by very fundamental reforms in Norwegian school and then by very fundamental reforms in general teacher education. Neither was the society of the day afraid to bet on this. They found it absolutely crucial for two value chains. One is the one that leads to formation, in the sense that you can be a citizen, you are not submissive when you meet an authority, you ask ongoing questions. The second is the one that creates social activity and industries that people can live on. There could be a thought experiment: let's say that the NOCUT report had been an evaluation of medical training in Norway. Then I think the temperature in the hall here would have been a little higher than it is now tonight – a lot higher. But the NOKUT report comes as a report on a professional group that besides home carries the most important thing in our society, namely the school. It carries with it the place where future generations get the ballast that is absolutely crucial to knowledge, but also to act in the way that I called having a general education – to be humble towards it that one can learn more himself, and then be without fear of authority when one is going to challenge the authorities. The position of the left is that two grips must be taken at the same time. One step is to have a thorough reform of the entire content of general teacher training and then to extend it. The second approach is to look at what the Council of State was talking about – that is, all the teachers who are here now, and who will continue to be here anyway, until we have changed or reformed teacher training. For these, there is a need for a systematized training and competence scheme that I am not addressing now, because it is the next debate. So I want to go straight into the education we have. In contrast to the Progress Party, such as: will limit education from the four years to three years and a Bachelor's degree, the Left believes that we should invest in a five-year education. But it requires a change in content. Our headline is that education then needs to be more specialised, and we need to get a professional deepening – as many people have been in it – to teach the individual subjects, that is, the teacher must have formal competence in the subjects in which they are actually teaching. This could be done, for example, by: means that one in the first seven years is in many subjects, but one must have formal competence in the subjects. One should not risk, as we have experienced for many years, teaching mathematics without having a professional ballast. Then it is necessary to extend the period of practice, and there must be a syllabus that provides a closer link between theory and practice. In addition, we need a more systematic recognition system for the period of practice in education, and we need to strengthen the teacher’s competence in teaching management – a very central point. The large Connect study, now called Respect, from the University of Stavanger, concludes that it will be best in any educational situation, and there will be peace and concentration if the teacher is professionally safe and a safe adult. In addition, the Left believes that we should consider counselling as a possible specialisation route in education, and then an advice that links a modern vocational guidance system with an advisor who can help colleagues with educational strategies and students with study techniques, so that it becomes a different advisory function from the one we have in Norway now. In addition, a plan is needed to provide teachers with an up-to-date knowledge of society and the school to be in. If I'm going to pull this off, I understand you're going back if you're humble to the fact that this is a demanding process. But I'm worried that you're going back because you've already spent your money in other areas. When the Workers' Party presented its investigation, there was no money for teacher training that was the biggest leak, it was money for a completely different purpose. I hope that I am wrong about this, because the money that the Council of State has said it will cost to have a five-year education, including – I would add – a changed content that becomes more specialised, more professional and more practical, will give us weight for the future. Of course, it means, as the Council of State was also concerned, that while we're waiting to get it in place, and while we're creating those systems, we have to do something with all the people that are here today. They deserve that, as the motivated people they are, it deserves the students, and it deserves society. It is a two-part track: a five-year reformed education for the old general teacher, which disappears for the benefit of a person who through a training course is more professional, professional and professionally equipped, and in addition a course of continuing education that gives teachers the respect they need. It was just that when the Council of State went to Finland, it was not to study Finnish school, but Finnish teacher education. I believe, for my part, that they chose differently 35 years ago in relation to us, and it's time to take back what we've missed in that period, out of respect for the teachers, for society and for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e530	The NOCUT report on teacher training in Norway has highlighted major challenges, and must therefore focus on them. Within, inter alia: As the Council of State also said, the management, depression and requirements of students have revealed clear weaknesses identified by the evaluation committee. So the problem is very complex, and it means that the solution has to be found at several levels. It's possible that the interpellant is right that there are too many targets. It tends to confuse most organizations. When international tests reveal that Norwegian school has major challenges, it should not be surprising that the same applies to teacher training. It is the teacher who must be the motivational mentor for the student. If the teacher fails to train, the teacher does so, and the individual learnt will eventually be harmed. However, these challenges are addressed by the evaluation report around the country. In my own county, Hedmark, it's my particular impression, based on the contact I've had with the administration at college there, that you're very concerned about this, and you have an offensive approach to the challenges that have been revealed. The report is taken seriously, analysed and provides a basis for action. It must be answered positively. You talk about spaces of action, and I think you have to put some trust in those who are actually set to administer teacher training, at least try to fix things in the short term. Of course, it is timely for the interpellant to address the question of what kind of thinking the Minister of Knowledge is doing about solutions to the challenges in the longer term. But I see it as worrying that the interpellant in the question seems to reveal what she thinks is the best solution. It is clearly not consistent with the evaluation committee’s position on the length of education. It would be preferable for us, in the light of the central nature of this challenge, to take time to analyse as well as give priority to action, in order to obtain the intended impact of actions to be implemented. That's the way I also understand the Council of States, that he wants to do it. Because it will take a lot of resources to make changes. In today’s Norway, the statement refers to ‘if you think you’re fully educated, you’re not trained, but just finished’ more than ever. Neither does one train teachers once and for all. But it's about giving them professional and educational insights from the beginning that give them confidence, and that enable them to lead the class into the world of knowledge. We cannot retrain them away from the need for a strong and good teacher training that must provide them with the necessary professional ballast. Therefore, one must be able to have two thoughts in his head at the same time as discussing future frameworks for the teacher. Teacher training is one challenge; continuing training is another. It could be that you're going to think of a development along both axes in parallel. The teaching profession deserves and should have a naturally high status. It has been put in the hands of the teacher to lay the foundation for the development of our most important resource, on which several have been involved. However, many suggest that the status of the profession is simply too low. It may be that teacher training, following the same degree structure as other higher education, with the bachelor and master levels, can help to correct it. Furthermore, it may not necessarily have to have master levels to teach at all levels of school. A combination might work. A combination of three-year and five-year training courses is not deterrently expensive on the basis of the preliminary figures provided by the Minister of Knowledge, whether it would prove to be the right action to take. But it will give a mix of generalists and specialists into school at different levels. Furthermore, a mandatory guidance system after completion of education may be an element of developing better and more self-confident teachers. The so-called ‘practice’, which has also been mentioned earlier, can indeed be reduced by this type of action. This debate will not necessarily be concluded too quickly. It's a good thing to be able to agree with the Minister of Knowledge on that. There are obvious challenges here that need to be solved. The school as a learning organisation needs this focus and an open debate on action to find the best way forward. The professional environments around teacher schools are in the process of implementing measures and discussing solutions. We should take the time to listen to what's coming out of this, and listen to the experience before we draw for the bountiful conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e549	In the past, there were often major discussions among the teachers in the family and others who might have a different place. I can promise that the Christmas companies were a glowing political workshop where one came with different views. Free education, the 1968 generation, the friend teacher and other things were major themes. And then I have registered, as Huitfeldt's representative, that many of us have admitted that many mistakes have been made. We've also seen that society as it was maybe 15-20 years ago, it's not like that today. Teacher training and teachers have not been able to keep up with social developments. They've probably wanted to do this, but it hasn't always worked. Today, it's actually the way teachers are social workers, they're frontier workers, they're often a mother, they're often a father. And we've seen that changes in home and lack of time are one of the biggest problems in our society today. Then it's so easy to say that now we make demands. Many teachers have therefore met the wall. The current situation is difficult to deal with. I think we all understand that. But we shouldn't leave these teachers and students in the loop, because that's what we do if we don't have two thoughts in our head at once. We need to focus on the short-term goal, and we need to focus on the long-term goal. Therefore, it is important to give today’s teachers the opportunity to deal with the usual everyday school life, but it is also important to give tomorrow’s teachers the opportunity to enter the profession of know-how and security in the backpack, knowing that they are the best in the job. In this sense, it's really just taking hold of it. We have to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e558	I thank you for a broad discussion, which reveals that the Storting is very concerned with teacher training, takes the NOKUT report seriously and is willing to follow many of the recommendations to correct what is not good enough in teacher training. The teacher is an important person. If you ask adult people what was essential for them to make a choice, choose a special education, or succeed in spite of the fact that all odds were really against them, a lot of people answer that it was the teacher. The teacher is an important person and has a high status in society. But the teacher doesn't have a formal authority, as it used to be, when you bowed down to the teacher just you met him or her on the street. It was Åse M. Schmidt inside his post. Today, the teacher is required to have a personal authority, and it imposes entirely different requirements on teacher training. They must have a personal authority and professional security, but they must also have a human authority over the students they meet. I think Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has a fruitful approach to how we should approach it in assessing and reviewing teacher training. When we have looked at the evaluation of curricula for basic education, we have often not been sure of what has been evaluated, because we have changed education very often, and it takes a long time before a change gets through in a school battle. That's why we have to be aware of what we're really changing when we're going to change something. Maybe we've made some changes so fast that we haven't really seen the effect of them. There is a myth in Norwegian school that some teachers are good at teaching, while other teachers are professionally strong. I think it's a stronger relationship. I think the teacher who is professionally strong, also abilities to be good at learning from himself. I think there's a context here. The Christian People's Party talked about mentoring. That is a good suggestion. Inger S. Enger was in the «fashion». I think it has greatly affected the youth stage — the lack of specialisation in youth. Åsa Elvik had expectations. I think there is a link between the professionally weak results we see in some OECD studies and areas where teachers are not strong enough. I think we should have an open discussion about the length of education. But I notice that the Advance Party, on the one hand, believes that we should cut the number of years of initial training, that it in itself ensures quality, while, in the case of general teacher training, it is enlargement that automatically ensures quality. I think we should put the content first, see how we can raise the results to the teachers, because that gives the best result for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e573	Let me thank the Stortinget for a very good debate. This is an important debate. It is underlined by everyone who has taken the word. Everyone also takes the same starting point, namely that the teaching profession is a very important profession, which we must ensure has the best possible education. Many have discussed the structure, dimensioning and content of a new general teacher education, and that is a very important question. Let me in the end not comment on it, but let me just stress that what we don't need is new investigations, is the board of directors of today's institutions actually have. A very important part of NOKUT’s recommendation to us – and from Hansén’s evaluation panel – is that it underlines the responsibilities of each institution today, but which they do not follow adequately. We called the colleges into the conference already in March to underline the responsibility of the institutions for the study. Hansén’s report also underlines very clearly the need to develop clear management at all levels of higher education and an internal organisation that promotes teacher training as an integrated professional training. It's surprising and sometimes alarming, I must say, that the institutions don't know why so many teacher students end the first year. Maybe as much as 30 pst. falls off the first year. I don't know if it's the nicest, the least motivated or the worst. We simply don't know anything about why almost a third – at least 20-30 pst. – the first year of teacher training will be lost by the students. Institutions have a responsibility to identify why it is. What about the study that doesn't keep your youth going? Many may have good and natural reasons to choose other things. So at the same time, we don't know enough. The institutions are responsible for the quality assurance system. They need to put this into practice so that they can obtain key data and include it in the quality work at school. Institutions also have too little knowledge of the results of candidates. It is quite obvious, as many have pointed out, that the clear demands for individual students' expectations are being conveyed too vaguely and that there is considerable room for increased work among teachers' students. This means that there is much that can be tackled at institutional level, where there is no need for a comprehensive investigation and change in general teacher training as such. In addition, of course, teacher institutions need to provide sufficient skills for their staff. Cooperation structures need to be established both internally and in relation to external actors. Not least the relationship between theory and practice, as many also pointed out in the debate, is a responsibility of the institution, where the approval of the Council of State or of the Storting need not necessarily be taken into account. When I underline this, it's because this has a lot of pages, and they were highlighted in the debate. Some of these the institution itself has to take responsibility for, and I have to allow myself to say – and be so bold – that when we see some of the dean expressing their opinion on the NOCUT report on the individual institution, we wonder if they have read the same report. So that means that I strongly recommend the colleges to read the report carefully to their own institution, because it's up to each institution to take what's there, seriously and not to trivialize or explain it. If we start there, I think a lot has been done, also to get a better teacher training, and then as a government, not least in cooperation with the Stortinget, we're going to get better general teacher training for the future. That debate we started today, and I appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e595	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e609	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e618	There is broad consensus in the Committee that continuing training of teachers is a field that will require attention in the future. A co-ordinated committee is committed to signal that teachers are set to manage Norway’s main resource and that it is essential that teachers are competent, knowledgeable and motivated for this task. It must therefore be a continuous focus on the competence of teachers. The consultation carried out by the Committee and the input received from the Committee have provided a good understanding of the challenges facing teachers. While many comparable professions have developed different forms of support structures and tools to find relevant knowledge, the teacher is alone in updating his knowledge and competence. The area in which the teacher is expected to be briefed is also very wide. For each teacher, therefore, in many cases it becomes an insurmountable challenge to raise their concerns and find simple answers to the individual’s needs. Researchers point to a ‘culture of free will’, defined as a lack of collectively defined knowledge requirements in the teaching profession, as a further challenge. In total, therefore, there is a great deal to point to the need for a stronger focus on continuing education and training systems in the teaching profession. The Committee points out that the possibility of individual skills development is important and that this must be seen as part of the development of the school of learning organisations. Consequently, continuing education is not just an individual matter for the individual teacher. At the same time, the Committee considers that there are some clear questions of principle in relation to the systematisation of the continuing training of teachers. In 2005, the size of the training law changed to be the school owner, i.e. municipalities and county councils responsible for the operation, local priority and development of the school. The development of competence is part of this responsibility. The Committee also stresses that the focus is on the knowledge promise, and that this means a significant commitment to empowering teachers. In 2006 it was granted 375 million. to the school owner for this purpose, and the Committee expects this to be followed up in the annual budgets for the future. However, the majority of the Committee points out that it is not clear which measures would be most appropriate to achieve the objective of good continuing training. In addition to the very short course duration of a few days and with an equivalent small lasting effect, short «mini-sabs» of a duration of four to six weeks have been shown to have a high effect. The introduction of a year of competence will be very resource-intensive, and therefore it is not natural for the majority to consider engaging in such a comprehensive reform until there is more experience of the ongoing Knowledge promise. Such a reform will also have to be linked to the requirement for documented performance of the scheme. A majority of the Committee considers that the State will have to contribute to the implementation and financing of systematic continuing training for teachers. The proposal under consideration today is cost-based at NOK 6.3 billion and shows that these are expensive measures to take. Therefore, it is important to have a reasonable assurance of the success of the measure. However, the Committee shares several proposals when it comes to the issue of what is to be done now. The right considers that many of the challenges facing the school relate to the teacher and the teacher’s ability to renew and further develop their skills. Systematisation of continuing education is likely to be the right measure, but we believe that this needs to be analysed in order to maximise its impact. We will therefore put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks by the end of 2007 how continuing training for teachers – given the current situation – can create a mutual commitment and provide teachers with the necessary systematics for such training to be appropriate and relevant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e640	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e643	As the rapporteur said, we all agree with the proposers that teachers are set to manage Norway's main resource, and that it is vital for the development of the knowledge society that teachers are competent, knowledgeable and motivated for this task. So there might be different opinions about how we ensure that. The introduction of a year of competence for teachers may sound provocative, but there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which the objectives of more competent and motivated teachers are met by such a scheme. Whether we reach the goals of developing our schools to become more learning organisations than today is even more uncertain. For my part, I think we have to do more things. Having listened to researchers in the field during the Committee's hearings on this matter, I think it is wise to start by putting in place structures that ensure the regular professional update in school everyday life. The introduction of the Knowledge Promise gives us a good opportunity to see if the school owners have a focus on what is needed to put in place such structures. Management has been an area where the schoolwork has been little involved. But it's the school owner and the top manager of each school's responsibility to make sure that they have competent employees. Not only should the individual staff member be competent, but he also has responsibility as head of the school for the availability of peacock skills in all disciplines. This often drowns in discussions about budgets and school structures, but is no less true of it. In the context of the introduction of the Knowledge Commitment, all school owners are required to provide further training for the pedagogical staff in initial training. In my home municipality, they're doing well, like most other municipalities. Together with their neighbouring municipality, they have appointed a coordinator who cooperates closely with the principals of the two municipalities on the implementation of the Knowledge Commitment. By looking at the objectives and measures described in the action plan, we can read that those who are concerned with creating good structures that can ensure the smooth professional updating of the individual teacher by establishing networks in different disciplines, while sending individual teachers on courses and on-the-job training within the relevant subjects for each individual. One area of attention is school management, another area is school as a learning organisation. In addition, professional development in mathematics, natural sciences, languages and music is in good hands, according to the log that is kept. That's how I think we're best at first when we have the goals of competent, knowledge-rich and motivated teachers. However, it has not been said that we do not need a year of competence for teachers. But such a year must be linked to the subject in which the teacher teaches, so that new knowledge benefits the students and colleagues. We should not underestimate the fact that a year off from our regular job can be good for the motivation to continue, but if this is not linked to the job that they have, I think it will be impossible to carry out. If this is not the case, it must be linked to the existing contract work between the employee organisations and the employers – in this case KS. The Norwegian hospital supervisors have such an agreement. They may take out four months' professional leave every five years. This professional leave is taken out by agreement with the employer. The system is demanding, but by being contractually agreed, the costs are known and incorporated into the budgets in line with other compensation of employees. Such an arrangement also outlined the Minister of Knowledge who was currently considering for teachers when he spoke in the previous case. But I think the most important thing now is to put in place structures at the individual school that take care of the daily and regular development of competence, this being through obliging continuing education plans, systems of professional guidance, with opportunities for reflection on your own practice, good colleagues or other learning methods. The implementation of the Knowledge promise can give us the opportunity to introduce new methods for the continuous development of teachers’ competences. The Minister of Knowledge will probably follow up so that we can see that we are reaching our vision of creating a better culture for learning for a common promise of knowledge. In this context, teachers and their framework conditions are central.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e662	The proposal to introduce a year of competence for teachers is a proposal of which the intention of the Progress Party has much to do with it. The intention is, of course, to improve the skills of Norwegian schools, and it is obviously necessary to facilitate a better training system for teachers. For this reason, the Progress Party has made proposals in this case that each teacher should be given a right to an obligatory and individual training plan. There is a certain distance between the response of the proposers to the challenge of continuing training in Norwegian school and the solution proposed by the Progress Party. One of the reasons is that the Left proposal will create major challenges for schools, and impose enormous costs on municipalities. The central association of municipalities has made some preliminary calculations to show that the municipalities will be charged large costs to the scheme, estimated at NOK 6.3 billion. It is more than two and a half times the total nominal growth in the municipal sector for 2007 following the draft budget. The Progress Party believes that the overall challenges in Norwegian school are not just concentrated on providing teachers with very good training opportunities. We believe that a broader focus is needed. At the same time, it is necessary to facilitate the long-term challenge of competence. Today, therefore, the Party proposes to change general teacher training. Earlier today we have treated an interpellation based on the fact that NOKUT has given Norwegian general teacher training poor character. The recommendation from the evaluation team is to extend teacher training to five years from today’s four. The Education Association has previously supported such a model, and the Progress Party today proposes a two-way in a Bachelor's and Master's degree course, where one must have a master's degree requirement for post-secondary education. In order to ensure that future teachers are as qualified as possible, the Progress Party considers that rapid action is necessary. If the political process of follow-up and change in general teacher training takes time, it means that several generations of children are given less teachers than they could otherwise have. Therefore, political action is urgent, not just interpellations, discussions and conversations. The proposers will take action, and so will the Progress Party. It is worth noting that none of the government parties are involved in contributing to neither short-term nor long-term solutions to the skills challenges in Norwegian school. An overall opposition has – in a slightly different way – the ability to care enough to promote and propose possible alternative solutions. On the other hand, the government parties do not have any concrete proposals, nor do they support any of the concrete proposals presented. Since it is becoming increasingly clear that government parties have a great deal of freedom to find good solutions in Stortinget, their absence from involvement in this issue must be due to a lack of willingness to bet on empowerment in Norwegian school. That's not a good starting point. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e679	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e682	If we're to succeed in creating the world's best school for our kids, skilled and committed teachers are absolutely crucial. All the plans, reforms and evaluations we develop to improve the school will fail without competent, committed and motivated teachers. The focus has changed in school in recent years from the teaching that the teacher provides to the learning that takes place in the student. It is no longer such that the teacher can pour knowledge into children and young people — fill empty barrels. No, teachers should spark a spark in children and young people, arouse curiosity, motivate and guide. Teachers' own motivation and competence are essential for individual students to learn. That is why, as elected representatives, we have a great responsibility. We are the ones who are going to make things easier for a teacher to become the ‘good teacher’. It is we who must ensure teachers the best starting point both as a start in the form of a good teacher training and as a finisher in the course of continuing education. The teacher's role has changed a lot in the last 50 years. In the 1950s and 1960s, the teacher was an independent public informer. He had knowledge that he would share with others. He or she had skills to practice with children. The teacher was supposed to learn from him! To ‘learn away’ – we heard that there were some who were good at learning from themselves. The teacher was active in the training. The student accepted what the teacher gave. The teacher was a kind of source from which it could be drained. It was a long way to go the teacher who was the school – at least he or she was a sort of center. One teacher was to draw both from his knowledge and glow with his commitment. Now the teacher has become an organizer, the one who facilitates learning in the student. Focus is directed away from the teacher as a principal in learning. It is a paradox that, despite the fact that the goal of adapted training has been at the core focus for many years, we have not yet fully succeeded in adapting education to each individual student. A report from the Education lab points out that the school continues to face challenges related to uniform educational arrangements and inability to adapt education to the students. There may be several reasons for this. It's a lot about teaching resources in school. We need enough teachers with time and abilities to see the individual student. It is also about the challenges of teacher training. The evaluation of training by NOKUT has shown a lack of coherence between subjects and practices. When this is lacking, there will be implications for teachers’ competence in providing adapted training to individual students. It does not support the theory of adapted training if it is not shown in practice how this is to be done in the class situation. In order to succeed in individual organisation, it is absolutely necessary to be able to offer teachers time for empowerment. One of the main objectives of the school is to put each student at the centre and ensure that all students face challenges based on the individual student’s potential. We need to ensure that teachers have sufficient knowledge to achieve this goal. We have adopted a historic commitment to empowerment for teachers in the Knowledge Promise. Here, the Storting has committed itself to spending NOK 2-3 billion in the next few years. This is a good investment. It will be essential that this effort is also followed up by enhanced teacher training and a comprehensive and long-term teacher skill-lifting plan. With this in mind, the Christian People's Party has called for the introduction of a pilot project with the competence of teachers. The pilot project should initially be implemented in a three- to six-month-long state where school changes, new pedagogics and more expertise are at the forefront. Renewal and empowerment could provide inspiration, new and up-to-date knowledge, new teaching methods and thus improve the provision of education to students. Yes, this is a discrimination between a profession. The Christian People's Party believes that it is right to treat this profession in particular and to give teachers greater motivation and professional competence. It is an investment in our children and in the future! I would like to include the Christian People's Party's proposals in the vote. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the Left's proposal No 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e710	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e713	The most wonderful thing about the matter we have now come to is why not the whole committee could vote for the proposal that the Right proposes. It may be strange that I'm starting to say that, but it's a proposal that simply asks you to systematically review what you're doing now. If the government parties were to take seriously what was said in the previous debate on teacher training, we should actually vote in favour of a proposal that says that we should take systematic and good advantage of what we already know. I would like to ask someone to carefully consider why you cannot follow a proposal that is so direct and cashy. So to the proposal put forward by the Left, presented by the rapporteur. Of course, I find it disappointing that no more are going as far as we think it is right to go, but I am very pleased that the majority say that the aim of the proposal is to create a system which we find today in other professional groups, and which the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen also gave an excellent example. It is precisely so that we who have promoted the proposal are convinced that this system deserves teachers, deserves society and deserves the students. Of course, we're based on a system where this is both a right and an obligation, and it's a spice layer between the state and the municipality. That's also what the majority comes up with when it tells how to finance a possible scheme. When we deal with it, it is because a professional group that is going to be in lifelong learning, on which the representative Huitfeldt was involved in the interpellation debate, must, with the challenges facing new students, and with the challenges they face in a changing society, get a fill, and that must be filled with meaning. Of course, it must be professionally meaningful in terms of the relationship between the individual and the individual teacher and the school. Then I have to add: there are today a lot of teachers who are completely voluntary – and this is mentioned in the committee setting – taking part in further training, taking time off and paying for it. It's about deep and high and strong motivation. This motivation should meet society. It should be able to meet it in a way that made you do it. When we propose a gradual phase-in in the proposal from the Left, it is because we want a realistic relationship with the money to get it done. Most of the reforms in Norway, of which there has been some progress, have been phased in gradually. It has become so that you have had an opportunity to handle it. The starting point for the Left's proposal is the same as that expressed by the representative Tørresdal, that we are talking about a professional group that carries an incredibly important social institution up, that is the school – the institution that gives the basic ballast for people's lives, to live in a society with others, knowledge and attitude, and that also gives the insight that allows us to act socially sensibly and to be safe and proud of what we are going to learn. Then the teachers become key people. Then we go to Finland, a country that I have gone to to to study not Finnish school, but Finnish teacher education, they introduced that systematic for approx. 35 years ago for their teachers through their basic teacher training reform, where teachers got the ballast that we didn't think was right to give teachers in Norway for different reasons. So the Left's proposal is partly about later giving them the ballast that they haven't gotten before. Sometimes I've got some horror examples from teachers I meet on my hike in Oslo, who may have had eight hours in how to teach young people to read and write, but have had three weeks in dialectic understanding. Then something is fundamentally wrong. The promise of knowledge, to which everyone has referred, is a Norwegian shipper's roof, because we all woke up one day and discovered that we were sitting with functional illiterates – young people and older people, for the sake of the case, who could not read, write and calculate. Then we got on the roof. It's called the Knowledge Lift. Then we did it Norwegian way, we made it a spice layer between state and municipality. The idea that lies within the Left is, as the majority also say, that if you're going to do something more than what you're doing today, you have to do exactly that kind of thinking. It is said that yes, it is part of the negotiations between the parties, but the state has to come in badly. It's a fundamental idea that I share, because that's how we have created important reforms in Norway. When it comes to our proposal, we have also thought that it makes sense to try, to have an experiment. That is why it is part of the proposal. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has stated that they will support it. We will also vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party, because that is a related proposal. It's a proposal that follows the same thinking, that you have to try out something that gives your teachers a systematic training period. Finally, we will also vote in favour of the proposal tabled by the Right. I had actually hoped and thought that a total increase could vote for it, because it is taking seriously all the speakers I have heard in the teacher training debate and so far in this debate. I want to see it as a test also of the government parties' ability and willingness to be as innovative as they say they will be, and simply ask for the overview contained in that proposal. With this I address the two suggestions made by the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e736	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e740	There is a broad consensus that we must have competent teachers in Norwegian school. Teachers in primary and secondary education play a major role in the learning of pupils. The skills that students develop are what will provide the basis for tomorrow's society. The good teacher has good competence in his or her subjects, and he or she is able to impart knowledge to the students and motivate them for further learning. Such teachers are many of them in Norwegian school, fortunately, but at the same time more research reports have pointed out that there is considerable room for improvement. A central question is who should be responsible for giving the teacher competence. I would like to point out that last year the Stortinget adopted changes to the provisions of the Training Act on the development of competences, cf. Ot. pp. No 57 for 2004-2005 and Innst. O. No 105 for 2004-2005. The new provision gives the school owner responsibility for the necessary skills development for staff, both to renew and to expand professional and pedagogical knowledge. Let me also refer to the previous debate, which was a related debate in many ways, where many of these questions were also raised. It was a good debate, which was complementary to the debate we are now having. The government takes it seriously that various studies point out that teachers in several areas lack formal and new skills in some subjects. In the draft budget, there is a large amount of money used to strengthen the skills of teachers. I would like, among other things: point out the substantial effort made to develop skills in the context of the Knowledge Promise. This year alone, 375 million have been allocated. kr to the school owner of competence development measures. Part of the funds are earmarked for continuing vocational training. This effort has been proposed to be continued in the 2007 budget, which is now under consideration here in the United Kingdom. The activity reporting by the Swedish Research Foundation Fafo on the use of funding for competences for 2005 shows that the school owner has also increased the use of own resources by about 50 %. 10 pst. from 2004 to 2005. There is, therefore, a significant focus on skills development both from the school owner and from the government. It is important that the funds are used in the best possible way. In order to monitor the use of the funds after their intention, a comprehensive and ongoing reporting and evaluation has been provided. Furthermore, the county will be asked to ensure that local participation and anchoring are visible in the school owner’s annual plans. The draft budget underlines that this assumption is to be met by the allocation of funds and that the State is to follow up on this. Let me also stress that there is no change in what our government is doing in how this should be reported and investigated in relation to the previous government. We are continuing the very same system that my former colleague Clement used in his work towards Stortinget, and to which Stortinget has previously agreed. This means that there is a continuation and no change in the existing practice in how this happens. The proposal points out that skills development for teachers must have a long-term perspective. I agree with that. The teachers who are trained today will hopefully be in school for decades to come. An important tool for the school owner is to identify the skills and skills of their teachers. The strategy for developing skills in initial training has contributed greatly to the monitoring of municipalities and county municipalities. Because the strategy goes over four years, from 2005 to 2008, school owners are given the opportunity to think in the long term to meet the different needs created by the Knowledge Lift. I would not recommend a proposal to introduce a year of competence for teachers now, as suggested by the proposers. We do not have enough knowledge of how a year of competence will function in relation to the resources it will require. Is this the best way to develop skills, or are there other instruments that have a greater impact and give more money back? Will individual continuing education adequately benefit the school as a learning organisation? It would be unfortunate to give new signals on skills development before the competence strategy is implemented. The school needs predictability in the current situation in order to concentrate fully, if necessary, on the development of competence in order to implement the Knowledge promise. I would also like to point out that the proposal for a year of competence will require considerable resources, both economic and human. The proposal may lead to the need for a significant number of new teachers, which will have a significant impact on the economy of the municipalities and on the recruitment of teachers. It will also require the university and higher education sector to be able to offer relevant continuing training to a high number of teachers. For the Government, it is primarily important to use resources to improve students’ learning through increased hours and by increasing teacher density, and of course also on the level of competence that teachers currently have. Without weakening the needs of teachers for skills development, I would point out that parallels between the proposal providers and the scientific staff scheme are not immediately comparable. Scientific staff shall both generate new knowledge and disseminate knowledge. The research term provides an opportunity to focus on the first part of the work. Teachers are primarily tasked with disseminating knowledge, not creating new knowledge. A systematic system to meet the needs of teachers for the development of skills, both professional and pedagogical, is necessary to develop the quality of training. The strategy for developing skills in the context of the Knowledge promise provides for the systematic development of competence. It also provides experience and good action, because the strategy is under ongoing evaluation. When the strategy period expires in 2008, it will be natural, on the basis of the evaluation, to assess how further state levels can contribute to the development of competences in a systematic way. We're in the middle of the Knowledge Lift. Our government is now spending considerable money on empowerment for teachers. So did the previous government. That's absolutely necessary. If the promise of knowledge is to succeed, we are totally dependent on raising the skills of those who work in school, so that the promise of knowledge becomes real. I am happy to say that there has been a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. The 375 million. kr, to which we propose appropriations in this year's budget, is a continuation of appropriations from previous governments, to which the Stortinget has agreed. So it makes the teachers get the greatest commitment to competence ever. So, of course, someone would say that they don't get enough, and someone would say that they don't get exactly what they wanted. The reality is that it is very difficult to imagine that the department, the Stortinget or the directorate could be able to dictate how competence should be developed in each school. It has to find its solution locally. This means that the schoolleader, together with the school owner and individual educator, must take into account the needs of individual education and training in the field of further education and training. It's this way this system has been practiced until our reign. We are continuing this practice. We trust that those who are the longest down in the pyramid, i.e. in the individual school, are the ones who actually possess knowledge, and have to ask for continuing education. It is, of course, a major challenge for our colleges to organise this type of continuing education, to ensure that courses are perceived as relevant and that teachers make use of the offers. My impression is that this is essentially satisfactory. It also shows the reports we have so far received on the use of continuing education and training. That doesn't mean we're going to be satisfied. That means that we're going to keep focusing on this. It also means that it will be natural that when the period, which is continuously evaluated by Fafo, expires in 2008, we will receive a final report on the level of competence. How we're going to proceed with the knowledge that will be available in the final report from Fafo, the government has not taken a decision, but the knowledge that comes there in a few years will have to be processed. Then we'll see if there's any basis for new action. What is at least quite obvious is that our teachers need a continuous investment. That means that the great promise of knowledge we are now in does not have to end, but continues in new ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e779	Let me first say that I agree with many of the assessments that the Council of State made in its statement. We agree, of course, that everyone is concerned that the competence should be raised in Norwegian school. The least far-reaching proposal that is being voted on today is the Right’s proposal, which is a review with a view to a result. At least it brings us a step further, while the ambition of the Council of State is in a way to implement what the previous government put in place. That's why I want to challenge the Council of States to be a little more ambitious than just pointing to the scheme that the previous Bondevik government put up within the Knowledge Lift. What concrete plans, in addition to those already in place by the Bondevik II Government, will the Government be committed to – in addition to talks, interpellations and further investigations and action plans? Could he be a little more ambitious, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e786	What has been important to us is that the promise of knowledge is carried out with predictability. This means that we have followed the long-term plan that had been put in place to increase competence in Norwegian school, simply because schools, colleges and all those who depend on the funds are going to have predictability in this. In the proposal that Stortinget now has for treatment, we spend almost NOK 1 billion on competence and quality assurance in Norwegian school. That's a significant sum. We do that because we believe that this is an important field. We have ambitions that the quality of Norwegian school should be improved. It needs to be improved in many different fields, but raising the skills of teachers is of course one of the most important things. Increasing teacher density in school is also important for competence and quality. New hours at school are very important, not least in the basic subjects of mathematics, English and Norwegian. It's very important that we get more hours, not least at the lowest class stages. It makes our kids learn to read and write better. That way they'll succeed better. We have a wide range of measures that will enhance the quality of Norwegian school. I am happy to cooperate with the Stortinget on this, not least with the representative Anundsen and his party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e795	I'm in line with the previous replicator, and in particular the representative Dørum, astonished that you can't go in on the Right's proposal. We know today that the use of the funds that go into the promise of knowledge is very variable around the municipalities, and what our proposal is about is actually beginning to facilitate a systematic approach for a period when you already have a schoollift. In any event, the Council of State should note that the Committee, and in particular the opposition within the Committee, is uneasy and somewhat impatient with a view to something having to be done here. Then you can choose to ignore those signals or to grasp them and start creating a systematic around that issue, because it's quite important. My question to the Council of State is whether he will notice it and start working with a systematic around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e804	A state council constantly remembers what the Storting says, including minority comments, and, of course, majority comments. And a state council keeps remembering what proposals are being made for the Storting, for the Storting is the body that gives us assignments. At the same time, when we, the previous government and our government, have systematically invested in competence, I perceive it a bit as the representative Dørum said in his post: this is a national effort to make sure that our school gets better. We have an ongoing evaluation of the promise of knowledge and the level of competence of teachers, carried out by Fafo. The Competence Development Programme for the Knowledge Lift expires in 2008, and they will conclude a report to be submitted to us. How we then continue this work, we have not taken a decision. That's something we'll come back to. But I understand that with regard to both the proposal by the representative of Dørum and, in particular, the speeches that have been in the debate so far, all have the same intention, that for this profession, the teachers, are continuing and continuing training, the level of competence, very important. That you have a slightly different approach to it, I accept as part of the essence of politics, but the intention is that it is a co-ordinated growth that shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e811	I can confirm that the Council of State has read the committee position quite correctly when he now replied to the representative Gundersen that an overall committee believes that something needs to be done systematically with the ability of the teachers to get better, in the form of continuing education, but then our paths are separated, without me making it any polemics here and now. From my experience – they get to be as they are, but I'm a politician who wanders around and listens to what people have to say – I feel, as the Council of State, that through the promise of knowledge, we take a shipper's roof. We're doing a good job. But I also experience a lack of systematics. It should be ensured that continuing training is also put under pressure to make it good. I have agreed to vote in favour of the Right proposal. I will not ask the Council of State to comment on it, but I will be careful to ask if the Council of State also in the course of the evaluation will come back to how to actually strengthen the system of continuing education, so that what I perceive was in the Council of State's response as early as the previous round, when we discussed general teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e818	Of course, I am concerned that, as far as the great resources available to society for educators are concerned, we should get as much money back. I also believe that a concerted increase would agree with that. I have noticed that many in the public debate have said that these funds are not being used well enough, and that is, of course, something that we are constantly focusing on. But once again, it is a difficult balance to distinguish between what is national governance and what is the local anchoring, and the knowledge of each individual pedagogical institution will need. We have e.g. a very clear signal that this year there is a natural science subject to be given priority. School management has been a priority. Mathematics has been a priority. Priority shall be given to language subjects. This is what we send out as national steering signals to the underlying institutions, and not least to the schools and colleges, in order to enable them to pass on this knowledge in the courses required. We're using considerable resources on this. Therefore, the questions are completely relevant: Are they used well enough? Can it be done in another way? Is the system tactic good enough? My answer so far is: Yes. We don't have anything better than what we've come up with so far, but we're obviously interested in a dialogue with Stortinget and others about how this can be done in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e825	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 329]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e843	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e852	First of all, I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. Traffic safety takes us all. And it's good to be able to say that a collective committee stands together about some grip that can be taken. I'll get back to that. In this case, the Progress Party shall promote three proposals; 1st@item: inlistbox Introduce a ban on the transport of school children and young people standing by school bus.2. Calls for municipalities to investigate the consequences of changes in the school kiss both for students and for the county council, as well as the economic consequences for the municipality.3. Transfer the responsibility for school kissing for primary school students to the municipality. I'll take the point by point and start first with certainty. The school skyscraper system of the day is defined in the Training Act. Here it refers to both who has the right to shine and who is responsible for the school kiss. The general rule is that the county is responsible for the organisation of the school shower, and that the municipality pays a reimbursement at a person's rate for the students who are gunned down. The Education Act defines the students' rights to school kissing, as well as the responsibility of the school owners and the administration for the organisation of the school skyscraper scheme. In the case of provisions relating to safety and more traffic, this is permitted by the Road Traffic Act. The county council has the right to define the quality and safety requirements of the transport companies. Of all our county municipalities, only four have taken advantage of the possibility of demanding a sufficient number of seating positions. Of course, a joint committee is behind the concerns of students, parents, teachers and others who experience school bus transport as unsafe. It is not possible to settle down on the fact that a large number of students are transported to and from school in crowded buses, where many students are referred to standing places. It is a well-known matter that in private cars we get fines if we do not use a seatbelt. Of today's approx. 620,000 students travelling by school bus are about 200,000 traveling collectively. Sintef calculated 2-5 pst. of these students, reference is made to daily stand on the bus. The number of students given school kisses has increased in recent years, and an increasing number of students today have school kisses of up to 2–3 hours per day. day, often on roads with high speed limits and unladen distances. Against this background, a comprehensive committee is asked by the Government to assess the need for changes and clarifications in the road traffic laws with the corresponding regulations, possibly to introduce a new regulation to the training law, in order to ensure that students have a sound school kiss. When this is not just pointed to the Ministry of Knowledge, it is because the cases may affect several departments and it may be relevant to change different laws. The next point from the proposers was the desire for impact assessment for school kissing and school closure, as well as economics. Now it is the case that municipalities pay child care for those students who are entitled to school kissing. School leavings, together with an increase in the number of skyscrapers, therefore lead to an increase in the local authority’s cost of ticketing to the school shower. The extent of this increase depends on the number of extra mussel livers that the closure creates, and how much the cloud distance increases. The majority of the Committee is also of the opinion that municipalities are currently assessing both the economic and other consequences of, among other things. school kisses in the process of changing school structure. Municipal maritime governance will also be an important keyword here. Against this background, the proposal to oblige municipalities to investigate the impact on school education of school closures is rejected. The last point from the proposers was the wish to transfer responsibility for school kisses from county municipalities to municipalities. Central hearing bodies do not support this part of the proposal. A report from the Nordic research project ‘School closure and school kissing’ examined the impact of school closures on the cost of cloud operations in a sample of municipalities. The conclusion is that the relationship between school dropouts and school kissing costs is far from clear: 47 pst. 42 pst. did not change while in 7 pst. of which reduced costs. Revenue increased more than the cost of 52 pst. of the cases, while they were lower in 23 pst. of the cases. So there is no clear indication that today’s system is wrong. On this basis, the majority of the committee rejects the proposal to transfer responsibility for the school shower from the county municipalities to the municipalities. Nevertheless, there is a unanimous committee that believes that the Government should review the distribution of costs between municipalities and county councils in terms of school kissing, so that all the different sides can be illuminated, and that we have a proper policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e894	Like the previous speakers, I would like to thank the entire committee and also the proposers for having launched an important debate. We've had a good process, and we've had good hearings, where both the Safer Traffic and the Landslag for the neighbourhood school, LUFS, have been in and made good recordings. Policy-making is very much about being able to address the situation of other people. When I think about this matter, I think, how would I behave as a parent, how would I feel that my nine-year-old daughter, for example. had to stand on the bus? How would I feel that she had a journey to school of up to 2-3 hours? I guess I could say it pretty clearly here, that I would not accept that at all. That's how I think it is with most of us. I also record that there are some different suggestions. We may not go to work as drastic as the opposition, but the intentions and objectives we fully agree on. That is why I hope that this debate will not be a debate on instruments, but a discussion on the goal, and that we all want to be there – to get a safe and safe school transport for children and young people. Some words about what we can call the security issue here: there are only four county municipalities that have quality assured this. In danger of teasing some local politicians – I have been it myself, and it may even happen that I have overlooked it myself – I have to say that I do not fully understand how state politicians and other local politicians dare to gamble with this. If something was going to happen wrong, I think it would be very little fun for those politicians who are responsible. So it's given a clear challenge to state politicians to introduce it as a school transport criterion. It's not certain that we're getting ahead with just challenges and want something to happen locally. This is why the Committee is gathering to ask the Government to look at the need for changes and clarifications in the Road Traffic Act with the corresponding regulations, possibly new regulations to the Training Act, in order to ensure that students have a sound school kiss. So a little bit to what goes on in travel time. We notice this evening that we are not so obvious, and then you can imagine how children and young people have what might be on a school bus or use other public transport every day. It is hardly academically sound and hardly socially sound. Reports also show that it can cause health problems. But everything is related to everything, and this is related among other things. together with local economy. That is why I am pleased with the municipal commitment we have been facing in the last two years, and I hope that it can help to reduce the number of school drop-outs. After all, it's a cross of thought if it pays for the municipality to lay down schools, so that one then only imposes greater costs on the county. In some cases it actually does. If, in those cases, the municipalities themselves had to pay full for the school kiss, it wouldn't pay off. But that only applies in some cases. That's why we're also going in to look at the cost distribution between the municipalities and the municipalities. Because it's a cross of thought, as I said, if there's such an incentive to drop out of municipal schools. Finally, the proposal to transfer the responsibility for school kissing to the municipalities does not seem to be a smart move, and we also support Trygg Trafik, who believes that it is definitely the county municipality that should have that responsibility. Municipalities are becoming far too small to negotiate good agreements and get proper coordination. What's the jumping point here, so at least we see it, is the economic distribution between the municipalities and the counties in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e917	This case has its background, among others. in the safety of school children in bus transport. There has been a great deal of commitment around the matter over the whole country, and especially in outstretches, where the need for bus transport is greatest. The legislation on the transport of school children is deficient today, but the regulation of 21 September 1979 No. 7 and Regulation of 4 October 1994 No 918 gives us some guidelines anyway. Today, the transport of school children is a municipal responsibility, with payment from the municipality of residence for each student. Nevertheless, it is for the bus companies to decide what types of buses to use and the safety measures to apply. This is what the Progress Party believes is totally unsustainable. We think it's almost a risk to the health of students when you don't set national standards and have a code on such an important issue as the safety of schoolchildren. It is easy to imagine a situation where a poor-economy municipality will choose a low price for school pillows to save money, without calling for security. An unprofessional company would then be able to take on the task of transporting schoolchildren with old, worn-out buses. This could have fatal consequences. Before and during the examination of this matter in the Committee, examples have been found in several places in Norway that schoolchildren experience having to be on the bus on their way to school. What if one of these buses has to do an emergency brake one day? Heavy professional bodies such as the Children's Ombudsman, the Social Security Agency and the Landslag för nærmiljøskskole, LUFS, have given their full support to the Progress Party in this matter and welcomed such a change in law. In addition, when it is known that a unanimous church, education and research committee in the treatment of the 2006 budget expressed concern about signals indicating that children are spending more and more time on buses to and from school, it seems more and more strange that the Progress Party is not getting full support of its proposals today. The progress party is afraid that the comments will be nothing but good intentions buried in the bureaucracy. I would also like to mention the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party alone or with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e930	The representative Per Egil Evensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e933	I can join those who have given praise for good cooperation. We basically have quite good and orderly relationships in the committee and civilised discussions. The proposal under discussion is important. It illuminates a central area for many people. It is a burden to have long bus transport. Of course, this poses some risks, and it puts some students on longer days. I come from Hedmark myself and know the problems quite well. At the same time, the right can indicate that we are already in the revised proposal of 20 million. kr extra to the county councils, so that they could pay for what it would cost to ensure that everyone would have a seat on a school bus. We also asked that this be inserted with full-year effect from 2007. Then to the suggestions. With regard to the ban on the transport of schoolchildren and young people, we believe it is very sensible that we review the Road Traffic Act here with the regulations that are, if necessary, the Training Act. So that's the full connection. But within all the good intentions it might be in place to maybe problematize this a little bit. I took and called Hedmark Traffic, who stood with this in my home state, just to hear a little about how the practical everyday life is. They assured them that they definitely had focus on younger children. There was no big problem, at least not in Hedmark. But then the question came up about high school. One ends up at a little different times, and suddenly the whole school comes at a time that the traffic company has not calculated, and then there is a lot of work going on without it being capacity. Then the question came up: what do we do with 80-year-old Olga sitting on the bus, when there are too many students? So there's actually some issues that one might have to think through here. In addition, I was clearly informed that it was largely a close-traffic problem that students were standing on the bus. Then I react a little to the use of language when talking about unprofessional companies. It is companies operating buses that are approved by the Car Authority for 20-30 parking spaces and operate within approved limits. Rather, we have to assess whether this is the framework we need to look at, and that is what we have asked the ministry to do. So for impact assessments. Municipalities see the costs today. We're always going to be careful if this could be some kind of a statement that you don't see the whole cost, and that's what we've asked for a review of. But I have confidence in local democracy – that’s what’s closest to these students – and I have great confidence that the municipalities actually assess the costs this puts on children and young people, not just the economy. So to that transfer responsibility. We put forward a proposal to introduce a probationary system in which municipalities or associations of municipalities may try to assume responsibility. We see the point that here you have to have some competence and some negotiating power, and that the smallest municipalities might have a challenge in getting it. But there should not be anything in the way of allowing some municipalities to try a system where they take responsibility for the bus transport. So I'm going to take up the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e955	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e958	What the Storting is doing today is addressing the serious concerns of children and young people and parents in relation to the school road and school kissing in Norway. Both the Children's Ombudsman and Safety Traffic have reported that they have received many enquiries about this. Therefore, today’s Stortinget is dealing with a matter of giving children and parents a security so that the children are taken well on their way to, at and home from school. There have been relatively few serious accidents involving school buses in Norway. We are very pleased about that. At the same time, this is not an argument for not always assessing whether the law is good enough. A law can't protect us from everything. However, it can set certain limits and provide some guidance on how best to prevent serious accidents. For the Christian People's Party, the vision of no one killed or seriously injured in traffic is fundamental in our transport policy. We cannot wait for a serious accident to occur until the necessary measures are put in place. Then there is also an overall committee asking the Government to assess the need for changes and clarifications in the Road Traffic Act with the corresponding regulations, possibly new regulations to the Training Act, in order to ensure that students have a sound school kiss. I have noticed that Safety Traffic points out that it is possible to make greater demands on the transport companies. In addition to the possibility of requiring seats and safety belts for all, county municipalities also have the possibility to impose quality assurance requirements on transport in the case of the purchase of school transport services. This means that the county may require transport companies to apply road safety procedures, staff to comply with traffic rules and to implement crisis management and first aid courses. This should be noted by the Ministry as an important input into further work. The representative proposal also addresses the question of who should be responsible for the school shower — the county councils or municipalities. This issue has long been debated in Norway. The question has been whether school education expenditure has been adequately taken into account at school drop-outs. In 2003, the representative Scarbøvik of the Christian People's Party asked the Minister of Education a question about the transfer of school pillows for primary school students to the municipalities. In its reply, the Council of State pointed out that Nordic research in a report stated that: «to a small extent, find evidence to claim that the primary municipalities are shifting significant cost burdens to the county municipalities. This can therefore be an argument for the proper functioning of today’s system’. However, we have noticed that, among other things. This report has been questioned by the national community school team. Therefore, there may be a need for a broader assessment of the conditions associated with school noise and closure than is currently available. The Christian People's Party sees near-environment school as an important part of a community. We want to ensure that children have access to public school within a reasonable distance of home. It is important, therefore, that saved crowns of schooling at the time of closure go straight into a similar animal school kiss. We therefore go along with the Progress Party and the Left to ask the Government to carry out a wide-ranging review of the cost of school showering as a result of school closures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e974	There are two basic themes in your configuration. One is the safety of children who depend on school kissing, and the other is the concern of many, I think, in the committee regarding the fact that schools are being laid down, and that costs appear in another budget line. The first point, on the safety of school pillows, is quite correct that the Committee has given a joint opinion on this in a sharp note. Nothing would be better than if the Council of State were to sign it out in a good way here today, to say it that way, because it's right, as the representative of the Ruites is inside, that we're clear here. It should actually be quite obvious that when children are going to drive a bus, they should be allowed to sit, and it should not be such that they get administrative explanations as to why not. There should basically be no topic for discussion, so I hope the debate can be recorded here. With regard to the second theme, I am also well aware of the work done in Nordic research, to which reference is made. But it has not convinced me, because Norway is now a complex country. I'm not going to do well because my ability to calculate this is better than that of Nordlandsforskning, but it's at least caused so much anxiety that I have a significant suspicion that money saved at school drop-outs appears on county budgets – perhaps not systematically between the primary municipalities and the county municipality, but in many ways. Even I think that the discussion on whether to have small or large schools should be a fair and honest debate based on the overall municipal economy. Then there should be an honest debate on what is professional best, what is best in relation to the policy that will be pursued in each municipality. But it should not be that you save yourself costs because you know that they appear in another budget line. The unpleasant consequence of this is, as the committee has been made aware, that there are children who sit for quite many hours on the bus. Then it is true, as many have said, that it has been well, but there are some mountain crossings in Norway that still have Norwegian road standards, and with Norwegian wind and weather conditions it is relatively advanced motorsport, also by bus. I think we could say that. So there's something about these relationships that I'm experiencing, like other speakers, that the committee has taken very seriously. That is why there is a note and also a proposal here, where we are essentially asking for a broader scale than what is now done, to look at the costs that actually arise from school drop-outs, that we simply do not get a system distortion, so that what is saved in one budget line appears on another – and then the society that pays the costs. Policies should preferably be related, and that is why the Left is involved in a proposal for a broader review of what school dropouts lead to when it comes to school kissing. Then we also agree with the Progress Party on a proposal that we should be absolutely sure that a local impact assessment is actually carried out when you put a school down, and that you also get on the table what you might be faced with because of cloud costs. It may not change a local political assessment, but it provides a general understanding for all politicians. Whether they're elected municipally, or they're elected at other levels of government, state or state, we're running politics both within political parties and in cooperation with each other, and the insight we're given, we're all getting, so we're all going to be wiser. A series of proposals here are designed to increase that insight, so that – to put it straight – we can stand up as representatives and not only experience that the system is running by, and then we get a dry comment that that that is life. Many of us just feel that doing political work – for my own part, I have done it very locally, in city councils, in municipal government and on the Stortinget – is an ombudsmanship. I've never accepted the prevailing trend, that the more complicated society has become, the more I'll bend my head and stop being an agent. It's a mentality I have little sense for. It is true that when something gets complicated, it increases the challenge of how to deal with it – but then we get to do it. So I'm just referring to the proposal that the left has with other parties in the setting, and that we'll stand for. But I would like to stress the seriousness of the representative de Ruiters when he talks about the safety of children, and hope it can also lead to comments from the Council of State later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e990	School children’s transport is the responsibility of county councils, and these have great freedom to design school skyscrapers within the current framework. The county councils may, through agreements with carriers, establish their own school-children transport services and adapt the offer so that all seats are secured. However, school-children’s transport is currently often integrated into the regular service and is subject to the rules of road traffic legislation on passenger safety. It does not appear appropriate to have different legislation on the protection of children during transport to and from school and non-school transport. The rules of road traffic legislation in this area are largely derived from the obligations imposed by Norway under the EEA Agreement. However, in some cases Norway has imposed hedges in addition to these minimum requirements, including among others: that the driver is responsible for the use of available safety equipment by children under the age of 15. I would like to stress that the county councils and municipalities must continuously assess whether both the route offer and the school-children's transport are satisfactory in terms of the use of parking spaces. Coordination between them is also expected to avoid greater variations in the supply to users. I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Government to assess the need for change and clarification in the Road Traffic Act and its associated regulations, possibly a new regulation to the Training Act, in order to ensure that students are properly schooled. With regard to the proposal to impose a requirement on municipalities to investigate the impact on school education in the event of school closure, I note that the majority of the committee rejects the proposal. I am of the opinion that the definition of school structure belongs to municipal autonomy. Therefore, I do not think it appropriate to impose formal requirements on what is to be investigated by this type of structural change and decision. In addition, I would like to point out that the report of Nordic research, as referred to in the proposal, did not provide evidence that budgetary strategic considerations, i.e. The overvaluation of costs in county municipalities was given decisive weight by decision on school closures in municipalities. I can therefore not see that there is a need to introduce an investigation requirement for the municipalities. The Committee wishes the Government to review the distribution of costs between municipalities and county councils with regard to school kisses. Of course we will. I also record that the majority of the committee rejects the proposal to transfer responsibility for the school shower from the county municipalities to the municipalities. Section 13-4 of the Education Act on Forest Responsibility states that the municipalities are responsible for brushing students, and that the municipalities have to pay reimbursement at a passenger tariff, and that the county councils, in consultation with the municipalities, will organise the school kiss. This, I believe, provides an appropriate balance between municipal autonomy and economies of scale at school kissing. The latter is primarily linked to the fact that the county councils are more able to see the provision of cloud services in a large area in the context and thus to reduce the price of the service. In addition, the counties are likely to have greater bargaining power over the bus companies than each municipality has separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1007	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1010	As early as 2004, a similar proposal was made in the United Kingdom to ban the transport of schoolchildren and young people by school bus. The majority of the population also said that they were very concerned about the safety of children and the safety of those on the school bus — those who were then transported to and from school. However, an overview this year shows that only four of the counties have fully or partially complied with the requirement that all children should have their own seats on the school bus. This shows that there is a large majority of the counties who do not have the finances or have prioritised that children and young people on their way to school should have a seat to sit on and a safe school road. Is the Council comfortable with the fact that so many students are transported to and from school in an unsafe way?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1019	Let me stress that the system we have for school kissing is anchored in Stortinget through a series of treatments, and I believe that none of the members of the Stortinget or, for that matter, the members of the Government want school kissing to be irresponsible or in any way insecure. And there's no basis for saying that that's happening either. Fortunately, the reports show that there are few injuries during school kissing and that there are on average few children standing. A 1998 SINTEF report estimates that the average proportion of schoolchildren required to attend or leave school is in the range of 2-5 pst. It is also estimated that about 40 children are injured annually during bus transport. This is essentially easier damage. It is clear that this in itself is 40 too many children, but at the same time it is difficult to see that a major change in this system could have a decisive effect so that this figure is lowered. I trust that the county council will do this in the best and most secure way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1030	We are in the midst of a regional reform which, as far as I know, has not been fully investigated and which is to find its solutions. Trying new solutions that can also explain the need for the state and regional level should be interesting. We have expressed ourselves in particular that we see the point of negotiating power and this with competence and knowledge around creating grids and stuff like that, but the question is whether the Council of State will take the initiative that individual municipalities or municipalities can in cooperation have the opportunity to try to take responsibility for the school kiss in their neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1035	Initially, I do not see the need for this, because I believe that the county council has done this in an appropriate and good way. It is clear that there is a great variety in how to organise this, but there are, in my opinion, perfectly obvious, good arguments for why the county council should do it. I believe that the Nordic research report shows that there is no record of the assumption of school closures and the overburden of costs that have been raised in the debate. I therefore believe that the way in which it has been organised today is an appropriate way. But let me stress that of course it is the responsibility of the county to ensure that the transport is safe and secure. And my impression is that it's a responsibility the county council takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1042	I have had the joy, or ‘disgusting’, to hear at the end of this debate. It is a debate that I have had in the past, because I have actually made a part of that document – a few years ago. This concerns the proposal that children should have a seat on a bus – and I think it is unworthy that they do not have it in this country. I therefore want to ask the Council of State a question. The state councils have great confidence in the county council. Well, that might be okay. But there are 40 damaged children every year. After all, it's all very much, I think, while the Council of State seems to be minimizing it -- it's not that much. But this forum decides that I should be wearing seatbelts. I'll do the same on the bus. Why doesn't the Council of State say that okay, this should also apply to children?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1054	You have to be extremely careful about how to use numbers. When I wanted to present to the Storting the figures that are available through the sintef report for 1998, it is because it is done – without me having the number in my head – very many thousand journeys per. years. Fortunately, most of them are safe and secure. Then, of course, accidents can happen – and it happens completely regardless of what security you have. My wish is that all school kisses and other transportation should be safest. I trust the county council here. Through our budgets, the county council has now received a significantly strengthened economy, which allows it to take this responsibility more seriously – which was more demanding before, when the county council had a lower economy. I think this debate is also part of making the county community aware of the responsibilities it actually has. I hope that means that the county council then ensures – let me stress it – that children have a seat, but I think that this debate itself shows that there are many arguments that this responsibility has been added to the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1061	I have a very brief question: what is it that prevents the Council of State from insuring through a prescription that children should have their seats on school buses?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1066	Let me say that I've gone into this very carefully. As far as I can see, there is nothing in this material that indicates that a regulatory change is necessary. On the contrary, I think it is only necessary to stress the responsibility of the county council for the safe transport of children, and that, of course, provision should be made as far as possible for children to have seats. At the same time, the school kiss is in many places coordinated with other transport for which the county council is currently responsible. In this way, it is very difficult to imagine that there should be explicit rules for what's going on in school transport, and what's going on in ordinary traffic. This debate, as well as the attention that this case constantly has, gives me confidence that the county council takes that responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1073	Now I might be a little excited and take a little – but after all, if there is a reasonably new bus with seat belts that gets inserted into a school-children's transport, the teacher is obliged to wear a seat belt. It's also you, if you go on that bus – but the students can have a living room in the middle hall without having to sit down, with harnesses. Is this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1079	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1082	In practical life, a school bus will often be coordinated with other transport. This means that, as far as possible, children must of course be secured in a car, which adults must be secured in a car. It is the responsibility of the driver. That means you have to. So I'm going to think that all county councils are making maximum efforts to ensure that the children have a safe and safe school kiss. My impression is that it happens. The reports we have show it. I don't know how many thousands of school routes we have, and how many children are transported every year with school kisses, but the number is significant. Luckily, as far as we know, it's a relatively low number of injuries, despite the many thousands of trips being run. I must stress strongly that this is the responsibility of the county council, especially because I do not believe that any alternative approach would have done this better. Had we made a law or a regulation or imposed the county council otherwise, I don't think it would have necessarily resulted in what is the representative Nistad's obvious positive commitment, namely that children should be secured by bus. I share that commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1092	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1095	Many people experience having their local school services removed. Children down to the age of six are moved by bus over long distances. The examples of irresponsible transport and long transport times are unfortunately many, and this is probably still the case, despite the fact that the representative de Ruiter would not allow his children to travel that way. The reason for school dropouts is often a lack of overview of total social costs. It is difficult for parents to understand that their child should be forced to sit for hours on buses every day. It is difficult for parents to understand that children almost across the country are transported standing by bus. The proposal actually addresses issues that should not be discussed. It should be obvious that children were properly transported to and from school. It is therefore a bit gratifying that an entire committee asks the Ministry to assess the need for changes and clarifications in the Road Traffic Act and the corresponding regulations to ensure that students are properly kissed at school. The Committee is not satisfied with the situation. I was a little concerned about the replication here, where the Council of State concludes in many ways that it is not necessary to take this review because there is no basis for making regulatory changes. I allow myself to think of it as a delay and assume that the Council of State will review it, based on what the Committee has said, in a neat and proper way, so that you can make the necessary changes – despite the fact that he here expressed that it might not be necessary. Normally, such an overall committee would mean that it was not required to follow up on this in the form of proposals. However, it is constitutionally right that the Storting should only impose tasks and tasks on the government by decision. However, it would be a sensible form of work, especially in the present situation with a majority government, if one could have a form of tacit agreement that at least unanimous committee comments were followed up by the ministry and the government, even if one is not obliged to do so. One could then find good and practical solutions in the Storting on the cross-political front without pushing through proposals for decisions, because in any case the government parties will vote against proposals that they may be in favour of, because the proposals do not come from the government. We've tried that form of work in our committee. Int. S. No 156 for 2005-06 reads as follows: ‘The Committee points out that today there are 10 so-called special schools for disabled drug users, etc. with a total of approx. 450 students. The Committee will ask the Ministry to return to the issue of government grants to these schools in the context of the 2007 State budget.’.» The background was that Hopen secondary school, a school for former drug users, needed grants for building investment. The Committee's intention was to have a complete and comprehensive review of the 2007 State Budget to find a solution for all nine schools, in addition to Hopen, approved under the provisions on the special school for disabled people. The case rapporteur, Anna Ljunggren, did an excellent job of bringing together the committee on a good and practical solution. In the 2007 budget, the Ministry has not come up with a comprehensive and complete solution in line with the Committee's comments. I cannot sue the Council of State not to follow up the Storting's remarks, for the decision that was taken in the Chamber, in addition to the follow-up of the Department, was that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. But it puts practical cooperation in the committee to the test, because there we depend on the possibility of finding good and practical solutions. That is why we have had to deal with proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Left, in order to ensure the follow-up of the Department. However, I have little hope that the Council of State can today clarify that the ministry still feels obliged to follow up at least unanimous committee comments, even if no specific decision is taken. At least then, the proposers will consider making proposals no. 2 to a transmission proposal. We have to discuss it in more detail, in the light of the answers given in the line exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1117	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1120	This is a very important matter. It's about the everyday life of hundreds of school students who every day are being transported by bus to and from school. Many of them feel insecure about having to stand on the bus and not get a seat, as most of the others get when they take a bus. The buses used for school transport are often both old and worn out. Unfortunately, it appears at regular intervals that they also have deficiencies in relation to road safety. I think it's a hopeless situation that many of the young people still have to feel that insecurity, that parents are insecure because they're not sure how their children are doing while they're on their way to and from school. I think it's quite interesting when we discuss this topic: as a parent, when you're driving with your children, you're obliged to have child-resistance – the children should sit in a belt to be safe and safe in traffic. And if you don't meet those requirements, you're fined if you're stopped along the way. It is then a great paradox that they are constantly instilling in their children that they should wear safety equipment when driving a car, but when they take the bus or when they are on their way to school, they are no longer required to do so. When I choose to take the bus from Telemark to Oslo, I get both a seat to sit on and safety equipment that I'm going to have around me to be sure to get a safe transport, while schoolchildren aren't going to have the same security when they go to and from school. I also have to say that it is quite special that the previous collapse in the national transport plan was in favour of, together with the State Road Administration, having a zero vision, that is to say zero hard damage and killing in traffic. Then I think it's going to be a big paradox that students should be able to go to and from school without a requirement that they have a seat to sit on and safety equipment to secure them while they are on the bus. The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, could not understand how the state politicians could gamble with this. The problem for state politicians is to face major economic challenges and, unfortunately, this is not a statutory task. It's a recommendation that everyone should have a seating position, but it's not an order from this body. That's what I was hoping you'd get. So finally, Freddy de Ruiter said he wouldn't accept that his daughter had to be on the school bus. I'm a little excited about what he'd say to all the parents who every school day experience that their children have to stand on the school bus, that they don't get a proper seat and don't have traffic-proof conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1142	As I have said earlier in a line change, a government council is constantly aware of what is said in both majority and minority comments and proposals in the Stortinget. This applies, of course, also in this case. With regard to the setting to which the representative refers, relating to a draft document in Stortinget in ours, the committee has two paragraphs. The first paragraph concerns the operating costs of schools for the disabled. We have confirmed this by continuing with the proposal that is now under discussion here in the Grand Duchy. The second is to provide an assessment of schools for people with disabilities and their need for state support for, for example: expansion. The Ministry has announced in the consultation note sent out in connection with colleges that this assessment will be presented to the Stortinget as its own case in the spring of 2007. The law of free school is now at the hearing. That means we have to point and dot back to the Storing at this point. The last point will also come back to the Stortinget for a more comprehensive treatment related to the law on early school leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1149	I received a challenge from the representative Hoksrud that I would like to answer. But first of all, I would like to clarify once again what a unanimous committee has opted for, so that this does not just become a rhetorical exercise. It says: ‘The Committee asks in this context the Government to assess the need for changes and clarifications in the Road Traffic Act and its related regulations, where appropriate new regulations to the Training Act, in order to ensure that the students have a sound school kiss.’ That is what we agree on. As for the fact that I would not send my daughter of nine years standing on a school bus, and what I would say to parents in the same situation, I would, of course, say that they should not accept it. Perhaps this would help to push any local politicians and others to ensure safe and sound school transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 330]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1171	The cancellation will then pay for the matters that have been dealt with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1179	Presentations by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence at the Stortinget meeting today on Afghanistan – Strengthening contributions – are proposed in the Annex to the Protocol – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1403	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1411	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 3, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 4, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 5 and 6, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote, as soon as possible, a plan for the gradual introduction of a system of a year of competence for primary and secondary teachers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1441	Proposal No. 6, from the left, the president comes back to. There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote as soon as possible a plan for a limited probationary period of 3-6 months for teachers, focusing on changes in school, new pedagogics and more expertise.’ The left has announced that they want to support this proposal. Is that so?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1451	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1467	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a limited probationary system as soon as possible with a year of competence in selected municipalities in cooperation with the social partners, financed as a split layer between state and municipality.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1484	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1508	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks by the end of 2007 how continuing training for teachers – given the current situation – can create a mutual commitment and provide teachers with the necessary systematics for such training to be appropriate and relevant.’ The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1541	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Egil Event on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Per Egil Evensen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats and of the Left, no. 4, by Per Egil Evensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to transfer responsibility for school kissing for primary school students to the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1571	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals that allow municipalities, or municipalities in cooperation, to take over the responsibility for school kissing by primary school students.’ The Progress Party has notified that they wish to vote in favour of the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1588	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and No 3, from the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1612	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging review of the cost of school showering as a result of school closures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1673	Unit 36 is proposed to be sent to the Financial Committee. Lars Peder Breck has asked for the floor here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1678	Report 36 has been proposed to the Financial Committee, but it is a matter which naturally also falls within the competence of the Economic and Social Committee. It should either be examined in both committees or, at least, be submitted to the Economic and Social Committee for its opinion before its decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1685	The Presidency has dealt with this matter and the President maintains what the Presidency has proposed, namely that the matter should be dealt with in the Financial Committee. Does the representative, Mr Brerk, want this to be voted on?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1690	No, no, no. I disagree very much with the proposal, but I accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1697	The president thinks it's a good idea. [[Laughter]] Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-24-2.ana.ud452e1748	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
