ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e26	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e29	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I have the pleasure of making suggestions to establish a package of measures to re-establish the maintenance set-up on the county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e34	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e37	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Kåre Fostervold, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to provide consumers with information on the date of production and freezing on the packaging of foodstuffs, as well as better information to the consumer on the origin of the food.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e42	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e45	On behalf of the representatives Bent Höie, Martin Engeset and myself, I have the honour of making proposals to give the municipal control committees greater independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e50	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e53	It is a great honour for me on behalf of the representatives Dagfinn Højbräten, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself to propose measures to ensure that people with a minority background can participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e59	Finally, the representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e62	On behalf of the representatives of Harald Tom Nesvik, Vigdis Giltun, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to set up psychiatric ambulance services in all regional health companies on a model from Health Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e81	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e88	The proposal of the Progress Party to be addressed deals with two aspects: the prohibition of sibling and the age limit of 24 years in order to achieve family reunification with spouses, both with the aim of preventing coercion. I think everyone's a few and busy fighting coercion. There are serious and important issues, and it requires proper management. It requires a dialogue and an approach to the problem where we find actions that we know work. What really made us all aware of the problem and the consequences, I think I was Fadime killed in Sweden in 2002 – a young, beautiful woman who fought against her own family and against coercion, but who lost her own life in this fight. This is completely unacceptable. No responsible citizen shall accept the killing of young women and men from a cultural standpoint. The Fadime drapery triggered a broad public commitment to assault – before the family – against girls and boys with ethnic minority backgrounds, and awareness of this problem spread across borders. That's why we're all engaged in fighting coercion. The majority of the Committee has not really been involved in the proposal of the Progress Party. We refer to the work that the Government and the Ministry have seen going on. It is important that we have the extent of siblings' marriages monitored, and that we are properly exposed to any damage caused by such marriages. The Ministry has undertaken such work to identify the extent and consequences of forced marriage in Norway. We will then gain new and better knowledge on important aspects of this issue. The measures to be implemented must be accurate and effective. The government is working continuously to assess whether our measure is good enough in the fight against forced marriage, and the Government will also present changes to the Foreign Affairs Act in the course of the year. In this work, we need to look at tools and crisis measures, such as better information, strengthening police investigations and empowerment among health professionals and in schools, crisis centres, child and youth psychiatry, child protection and other institutions working on these issues. It has not been stated that the proposals of the Progress Party are good proposals in relation to what seems to be the goal, but we will be able to decide when the Government presents these matters to the Storting. Finally, I refer to the Committee's comments and the vote on the inclusion of this proposal in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e116	It is clear from Document No. The 8th proposal, which is the basis for this vote, that figures from the Norwegian Embassy in Pakistan show that more than half of all detentions are made with family members. According to the embassy, 97 pst. of those who marry, that marriage is not based on love. In addition, more than half of the spouses are under the age of 23, and more are under the age of 18. It is obvious that very many young people are being pushed into an undesirable situation. Many have little or no education. This situation particularly affects women, or, in many cases, the girls. The Progress Party has noted that several prominent members of the Government have addressed this practice. Among other things, Minister for the Family Karita Bekkellem in May last year the case in Tabloid on TV 2. However, it does not help with press statements if concrete measures are not put in place that can actually address the problem. Word doesn't help, it needs action. It is also such that there are obvious links between marriage between close relatives and involuntaryness and direct coercion. One thing is the coercive element, but it is also clear that marriage between relatives is used as a tool for immigration to Norway and other Western European countries. Research and investigation on these issues are requested from the other batches and from the rapporteur of the case in Document No. The 8th proposal. But this research already exists. I would like to refer here to a study carried out by Camilla Stoltenberg in 1997. It shows, among other things: In the United Kingdom, it is estimated that the number of of the Pakistani marriages in Norway were between siblings. If the parents are cousins and cousins, the risk of malformations discovered just after birth will be 100 pst. higher than for children of unrelated parents. From 1967 to 1993, every 20 children of Pakistani parents in Norway were born with malformations. The risk of children dying or developing severe chronic disorders later in childhood is not known, but is expected to be further increased – this is because many genetic disorders develop later in childhood. Stoltenberg therefore believes that her numbers only reveal the top of an iceberg. Children born to the donor have a two to three times higher risk of death in the first year of life than children born to non-relative parents. In Norway, there are no studies that look at the relationship between children of given births and the development of malformations in the first years of life. But in England, researchers followed a group of children for the first five years of life. The 1993 survey shows that the age of five had 10 pst. of the children of the given parents either a serious chronic illness, which in half of the cases included mental retardation or the children were dead. This figure was three times higher than for children of unrelated parents. There are Pakistani parents in Norway who have up to five deformed children and no healthy children. The parents are cousins and cousins. This is a problem that needs to be stopped. The Progress Party has also noted the playoffs of the Integration Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on possible new rules for bringing a spouse to Norway. The councils should be praised for daring to put the problem in focus, but it does not help if the red-green parties do not vote for these proposals in the Stortinget. The practice of coerciveness, pro forma marriage and penance is a major problem, resulting in sickness, personal tragedies and poor integration. The Party considers that a new immigration policy for newly established spouses outside the EEA area should include: prohibition of the siblings' age limit for family reunification requirements for family reunification increased family reunification requirements With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e157	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e160	Whether cousins and cousins are allowed to get married must be a question that we consider for medical reasons, first and foremost. There is reason to stress this rather obvious starting point, on the basis of it – I must say – a little one-sided argument put forward by the proposers in their proposal. When you hear the articles of the Progress Party here, where you attach a rather crucial importance to the immigration perspective and to the consideration of the issue of forced marriage, it seems that this has been a rather one-sided motivation to promote the proposal. If there's immigration and coercion we want to live, and we want that – i.e. Immigration is now one issue, but forced marriage is at least not a very positive thing – it is probably a question of not having to find more accurate ways to do so, roads that do not seem to be competing to those degrees in the environments where forced marriage is a fact. When it comes to the health aspects of this, we will be open from the right to look at that question. We have been signaled that there will be a case from the Government where this has been investigated, and where we will have verified some numbers and investigations. The numbers that we have so far crack quite a lot. Otherwise we also have numbers that show that the chance of malformations, for example. increasing to twice as much, but what they're increasing to twice as much from is very small. So far we haven't thought in our country that the medical complications have been so great that there has been reason to put in such a tough direction as a ban is. Because we should remember that marriage between cousins is not only a phenomenon that occurs in some non-European countries, but also environments, or cultures, in our own country that have long traditions for such relationships. When you talk both in the proposal and in the post here about marriages that are not made on the basis of love, I must say that there is a rather arrogant approach to one's cultural perception of what marriage is. I don't think it's a matter of moaning and thinking that our culture, which certainly has the love marriage as its ideal, can necessarily show so much better results than the cultures where the science of reason is also strong – even though I am very pleased with the fact that the love marriage has been a starting point. In any case, we're open to look at both of the questions that have been raised. We also think it is important in many ways to put the spotlight on this. And if the numbers presented by the Progress Party are correct, there's every reason to think about it. We will be attending in relation to it and wait to take a final decision on the questions raised by Stortinget to get the matter back from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e171	Christian People's Party does not give up on Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party today. All the non-participating Progress Party has joined to attach it to the Protocol and indicates that several of these issues are being dealt with in the Department. It's a human right to choose your own spouse. Forced marriage is about young girls and boys with a minority background who are taken to the home country to parents and married against their will. One or both parties have usually been pressured into marriage through election, threatening whether elected or other represals. Forbidden by the law of Norway, coercion is not a cultural or religious act, but an offense. As politicians, we have taken this seriously, and many measures have already been taken. The original action plan against coerciveness contained 40 measures. The aim of the interventions was to prevent young people from being threatened or subjected to forced marriage, and to provide help and support to those young people who have been subjected to forced marriages. Means have been provided for the development of information material for work directly to target groups and for youth crisis aid. The information telephone was created in the spring of 2000. Several actions have been implemented under the auspices of voluntary organisations. In 2002, the ‘Renewal of the fight against coerciveness’ programme was presented in spring 2002. This programme covers 30 actions that several departments are responsible for following up. The Action Programme has continued several actions from the Action Plan and has focused on enhancing the competence of the public sector. In addition, the Bondevik II government stressed the need to implement several legislative and regulatory changes in order to put an end to forced marriages. When it comes to the age limit for family reunification, the Christian People's Party is united with the Council of State that this must be further elaborated. It is important that such a limit does not apply only to some ethnic groups. We want a law for every spouse from the United States, Australia or Pakistan. In the summer of 2005, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs issued a hearing note with proposals for changes in marriage law and criminal law as part of the fight against forced marriage. In the listening note, there are, among other things: proposed not to approve marriages made abroad where one or both parties are under 18 years of age, Norwegian citizens or permanent residents in Norway. When it comes to marriage between siblings, the Christian People's Party supports the distribution of the size and possible harms by the Council of State to look at what measures are needed. In many countries, arranged marriages are common, the family is even more basic in society than in Norway, and marriages are among others. an alliance between families, and not to the same degree as here with us, an alliance between two people. Strong feelings for family honor, fathers' leadership role in the family, and fear of being disturbed by family and social networks can lead youths to follow the wishes of parents. Family motives can also be economic or statusal. Many of the problems can be seen in the context of older immigrants in Norway seeking to live by the traditions of their own countries, while young people have grown up to be two-cultural and have conflicting standards when it comes to Norwegian culture and the home country of parents. I think we need to have a certain boundary line between coercion and arranged marriage. In the frontier country between marriages and arranged marriages, we find a category of marriages that, on the other hand, can act as voluntary events, but where young people themselves are not allowed to express their opinion or be elevated. To obtain the shades, a distinction must be made between arranged marriages and coercive marriages. I would like to stress that different ethnic minorities in Norway have particularly diverse traditions when it comes to marriage. This also applies to Muslims. Once again, I want to underline the difference between arranged marriages and forced marriages. Not even among Muslims, forced marriages are actually accepted. Forced marriages are a complex issue, and more public etats are needed, such as: schools, child protection, social services and the police. It is very important that these have a good cooperation. They must also have good knowledge. It is crucial that those seeking help to avoid coerciveness meet with knowledge and respect and get the help they need – in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e194	The fight against coercion is important for all the people involved, but also in relation to the view of human dignity in society. I think the fight for love fiction is also heroic. See if the representative from the Right saw it in a slightly larger perspective, and if he's come out better than the representative from the Left, I'll still fight for it. Fighting to share your life with the one you're most willing to share it with is a struggle that also goes far into our culture. This applies, for example: The fight that homosexuals are conducting today, in order to live a normal life in the relationship in which they most want to live. We also see that breaking out of different social teams also does not occur so frequently in our culture, as a firm belief in the love marriage should have resulted. I would warn against being so creative in terms of political instruments, eager to prevent coerciveness, that it is hindering the love of many – the use of instruments that prevent many from sharing their lives with whom they want to share it. The best tool is to create safe young people, young people who are safe in their own choices and who are also able to stand by them. It is the best tool we can ever have, depending on whether it is naive to believe that marriage is not a commodity – to stay in a country like Norway, which can offer the well-being we have. Marriage between fats and cousins, on the other hand, is probably quite much more common in a number of other countries. It is also quite much more common in some Norwegian-based environments than has been the main tradition of Norwegian culture. It is important that the Government also look at this when it comes to finding tools here. I expect great creativity when it comes to making suggestions. The Bondevik II Government presented an action plan with a number of proposals, which are now being followed up, including: in Odelstinget later today. It was under the then Minister of Justice Dørum that we first directly rescued a girl out of a plane on the way out of the country – because of the emergency telephones that had been set up, and because of the device that has now been set up to help the girls that are basically talking about, those who want to get out of this. I was on a study trip in England five years ago with this as a theme. There is a good rescue team that you can call on, and that picks up girls if you tell them that you think they can be forced into marriage. They also picked up a good number of boys who – mostly – had been forced into marriage for nothing but the fact that they really had a gay lay. The coercion of the family that was usually practiced against girls was also practiced against these boys. This is what I want the Government to draw attention to in the fight against coercion. Otherwise, I think the representative Molvær Grimstad was very close to the core of this: the role of the family. In Norway, which has in fact had nuclear families over the last thousand years, parents have had their own cattle and their own economy in old farm structures. You shouldn't travel that far outside our country until you find family structures that are completely different. Compared to Norway, where it has traditionally been the rural environment in which it has grown up, which has been one’s security, it is clear that in structures where it is the family that is one’s security, family power is over a much stronger one. Creating safe young people who are able to stand for their own choices and who understand what freedom the culture they grow up in actually gives them, I think – after all – is the best tool. That's why it's pretty easy to understand that this is not something you're fighting with simple bans or simple rules. This is long-term attitude work and long-term integration work, where the school and all the other adults who help these girls and boys make their own choices are the main basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e217	The President records that this is the day to publish the marriage bills to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e220	Document No The 8th proposal from the Progress Party, which we are dealing with today, addresses very important issues. As I write in my letter to the Stortinget, I believe that sibling childhood in the immigrant communities can be associated with both coercive poisons and serious health problems. I want to start by saying that the Government acknowledges the seriousness of this matter. I am therefore concerned about the detail of the scope and possible adverse effects of sibling childhood. This is an important matter for us. I note that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party criticise the Government for not putting into practice concrete measures that can actually remedy the problem. I would like to reiterate that we have started work on monitoring, and once the monitoring has been carried out, we will present proposals for concrete measures for treatment in the Stortinge. The Institute for Public Health shall identify the extent and health consequences of marriage between siblings. This work will be based on the doctoral dissertation of the doctor and researcher Camilla Stoltenberg from 1998. The Institute for Public Health shall provide its own report on this at the end of 2006. The conclusion of Stoltenberg’s thesis was that parents related to each other have a higher risk of having children with different genetic diseases and congenital malformations, as well as that infant mortality is three times greater. This is a not insignificant health risk, which we have to take seriously. Furthermore, it is important to disseminate knowledge about the consequences of sibling childhood and to improve discussion in the environments most affected. As I also write in my letter to Stortinget, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been assigned to carry out a detailed assessment of the information needs and, if necessary, to make proposals for action. In addition, I believe it is important that the immigrant groups who practice marriages in a close family take responsibility for informing about the health risks involved. I would also like to point out that social anthropologist Torunn Arntsen Sørheim is working on a doctorate project in collaboration with the Institute of General and Social Medicine at the University of Oslo, which can also provide useful knowledge for further work. The main objective is to contribute to increased understanding and new knowledge of genetic guidance to Norwegian Pakistani families with children with congenital disabilities or the risk of having this. Such knowledge may be used in the planning and implementation of genetic guidance and healthcare to this population. I have also noticed that members of the Progress Party say that research links marriage between close relatives closely to involuntaryness and direct coercion. It is important that we get knowledge and documentation on these issues. It is also important that we be able to develop a good and preventive policy by going in and looking at issues related to forced marriage in Norway. We know that in many cultures there are different reasons and traditions for marrying within the family. This is an important issue that I will follow closely, both in terms of national research, and in terms of what we can collect from research internationally. I have noticed that the majority of the committee will await the knowledge acquisition that is underway. I can promise that I will deal actively with the knowledge I receive, and I will continuously assess whether our measure is good enough in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e236	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e239	Still more non-Western immigrants — not only in Norway but throughout Europe — are picking up their spouse in the country of origin. The statistics clearly show that such practices are not being reduced in the second generation, so many later to believe, but are on the contrary increasing. The conclusion is therefore clear: integration itself does not go beyond time, and dialogue alone is not sufficient to address the problem. Norwegian immigration policy has long tried to undermine the scope and consequences of such marriage practices. Yes, so little debate has changed governments wanted about this phenomenon that the practice is covered under the term ‘family reunification’ – despite the fact that marriage is not about reuniting family members at all, but against the creation of new families. In other words, the collection of spouses is family establishment, not family reunification, and is naturally not covered by any international conventions Norway has acceded to. The practice of retrieving a spouse puts an effective stop to all integration work. Reached 80 pst. of all marriages in individual groups of migrants is precisely obtained in the country of origin, other integration measures will be obtained. The consequence is that we never get beyond the second generation. The language problems persist, the cultural gap is maintained, and not least increases the pressure on universal values such as equivalency, equality, freedom of expression, tolerance, individual freedom and the secular rule of law. In our confusion, we become so tolerant that we accept intolerance in the name of tolerance. We see the consequences today across Europe – increasing segregation, social unrest and increasing demands from immigrants that we must adapt to our society. This is a development The Progress Party has warned against for a number of years, but as a majority in this Chamber has repeatedly chosen to ignore. The proposal to introduce a 24-year age limit for the collection of spouses will not immediately lead to greater integration requirements, but it will give young immigrant women and men greater opportunities to make independent choice of spouses. Young women and men with a non-Western background will have the opportunity to start and finish their studies without having to feel the parents’ or the large family’s pressure on early marriages – a right that all of us ethnic Norwegians take as a matter of course. The fact that some people choose to interpret the proposal as a restriction on the free choice of individuals clearly shows how little they know about the environment in question. It is not possible to deprive anyone of a right they have never had. At all times, the time aspect of immigration itself has been the key to integration. Small groups of immigrants have over time adapted to the majority, while the large majority have taken advantage of the experience of immigrants to the country. That way we've got a richer society, where everyone has become a winner. The best example of this is the emigration of the North to America, where the emigrants settled in segregated areas. The North settled in New York, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Seattle. They kept to a great extent to themselves, and they spoke Norwegian. But as time passed, they became more integrated into society. That's the way we have to get into integration in Norway too. The demographic overview shows that Norwegian society is facing decisions that will have consequences for the future. Nearly 50,000 Norwegian immigrants are approaching traditional poisonable age. It is up to us to avoid their spouses being picked up in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e259	With regard to the prohibition of sibling childhood and the 24-year-old rule: why do we want to introduce it? What's obvious, and as several speakers have been involved here, is that it's actually that genetic malformations are a problem in those cases where the parents are in close kinship. Here we need to put in place measures, which are clearly necessary in relation to health. But also with regard to the prevention of coerciveness, these measures are clearly effective instruments. But I am a little stunned when I hear that more people from the pulpit are dealing with what might be easily characterized as conceptual confusion. The terms ‘arranged marriage’ and ‘compulsory marriage’ are used for each other. I think it's like, no matter what we talk about when it comes to arranged marriages, there's always a certain degree of coercion involved. Indirectly, implicitly: at least it is not freedom. I think we should clean up the terms here. What is essential, and what is important, is: is it about voluntary marriage based on love, or is it about involuntary marriage based on coercion? The forced marriages are obviously based on coercion, but it's actually that a large part of what is characterized as arranged marriages, also has a certain degree of coercion embedded in them. I believe that we should be able to clarify this in good faith. Secondly, it is clear that these are also measures that will have an impact on immigration into Norway. We know – and we can establish – that with the immigration we have every year, it is a fact that immigration is not sustainable, in the sense that we are economically – and there is one side of it – not lucky enough, neither in terms of what is involved in labour participation in the Norwegian society among immigrants, nor in terms of what goes on receiving social security. We also have problems with crime. But the most important thing, which was also the last speaker, is that we have a challenge in relation to the perceptions of many people coming to Norway, taking with us from their home country, in terms of freedom, equality, democratic understanding. Not least, we have had this demonstrated in terms of attitudes to freedom of expression. These are also measures that are absolutely necessary to gain control and sustainable immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e268	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e276	The size then goes to voting on case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e284	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward two proposals, I and II,
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-09.ana.ud951e324	There is no record available.
