ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e43	The Economic and Social Committee today proposes amendments to the laws of the Business Register and the Accounting Register. The reason is a new Council Directive amending the previous Directive on disclosure requirements for certain types of companies. In addition, the Committee proposes some other amendments to make registration more effective, including in the Unit Register Act, in relation to the use of electronic communications. It has not been what I would call strong political disagreement on this matter. Several of the requirements resulting from the Directive are being met in practice today. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that electronic reporting requirements cannot be introduced from traders to the registers and that transitional arrangements for the introduction of the regulation need to be considered. In relation to these issues, what I want to call a nuance difference between the Progress Party and the other parties. While there is a consensus that no electronic reporting is currently required from traders to the registers, the Progress Party has pointed out, by its own note, that not all companies have their own PC and access to the Internet, and that electronic reporting requirements can therefore lead to unsustainable expenditure on many enterprises. In this context, they see the need for positive incentives to provide the basis for a voluntary transition to electronic reporting. We all agree that electronic reporting to the different registers is resource-saving for all parties. Yes, it is very resource-saving, and it would have been desirable for everyone to use this service. The Committee agrees that Altin is further developed into a common portal for electronic services to the business sector from the public sector and is pleased that the Government prioritises the work on business simplification and business facilitation. The Committee points out that, in this context, good cross-border cooperation between business services establishments is of particular importance. State agencies that coordinate across the board are of course not the ones to do. We who have lived for a while have often experienced that it can be demanding. It requires management and pressure. In many ways, it's almost like working with heavy bodywork over a long period of time. But it has to. The industry is excited about Altinn. Altin is a success, and the Committee agrees that it must be further developed. I would like to add that here, those of business organisations that are in direct contact and cooperate with businesses on a daily basis, can contribute with insight, experience and competence on the part of businesses. It is important to ensure that enterprises, through the use of Altin, experience the public as a modern and effective partner. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e64	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 268]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e80	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch, and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the option be given to the replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e89	The odelsting shall deal with the setting up of Document No on a case-by-case basis. 8:27 for 2005-2006, a private proposal by representatives André N. Skjelstad and Lars Sponheim. The document proposes to amend the Land Act in order to remove the general ban on the sharing of agricultural property. The proposal is identical to the proposal to amend Section 8 of the Soil Act, which was sent out at the consultation of the Bondevik II Government in the summer of 2005. In parallel with the examination of this Document, No. The 8-gauge has promoted a separate proposition on the same theme. This will be dealt with by the Industry Committee for the autumn. The document has normally been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion, and replies follow the case as printed in the attachment. The Committee was divided into views on the proposal. A minority, consisting of the representatives of the Party of Advances, Right and Left, indicates that the prohibition of sharing involves a restriction on the right of the owner to dispose of his own property. The legal basis is that property used, or which may be used, for agriculture or forestry cannot be shared without the agreement of the authorities. This is a significant interference in the ownership of landowners. The prohibition of sharing is based on a view that it is not the owner, but society, which is closest to deciding what is an optimal future use of property. Therefore, this case is a classic conflict between basic ownership interests and alleged social interests. It is quite obvious that a rigid regulatory framework for changes in ownership and use contexts has some negative societal consequences in any case. A forward-looking agricultural policy must enable the best possible use to be made of the opportunities for profitable operation and business development. A minority of the Committee considers that the prohibition of division in the law on soil places unnecessary obstacles on the ability of owners to expand or to establish alternative nutritional developments on the property. Soil changes need to facilitate more efficient agricultural and service production. In addition, legislation must facilitate the possibility of owning small farms, or of living on land in agricultural areas, even those with incomes from traditional agriculture. Living in or near agricultural areas is one of the important and good qualities that can be offered in rural areas and which will help to slow down a trend of centralisation based on preferences to live in urban areas. In addition, the proposal would obviously lead to simplification and increased access to capital for other purposes, whether it is for operational investments on the property or new activity in the region. The parties to the Government argue in this case on the basis of the number of hearing bodies and the number of hearing bodies against the proposal, and have made a count of the number of negative input from individual municipalities that still want to deal with exemptions cases relating to the law. I think this is a bit of a strange argument in such a case. In the case of other organisations, the distribution of views on the case is fairly evenly distributed. In reply to the consultation, the farmers state that removing the ban on sharing will lead to the accumulation of land on fewer uses, and that such a development will reduce the possibilities for individual use. If further structuralisation is to be achieved for those involved, the current owners will be given the opportunity to take care of their interests through a real valuation of the areas traded. This is necessary both to ensure a forward-looking level of investment in current property and to ensure that those who have been operating the industry for many years get a reasonable outcome if they choose to go that way. So we have a situation in Norwegian agriculture with a steady and relatively rapid reduction in the number of farmers and the number of use. This is a policy pursued by an agricultural minister from the Central Party. In such a situation, I find it a little strange to record the somewhat relaxed attitude of the Farmer and the Center Party towards ownership of the agricultural operator. In the hearing, the Farmers' Group, among others, expressed its opinion. that the proposal will ‘only give short-term benefits to the seller’. This short-term gain is values on farm and land that Norwegian farmers have built up through generations. These are values that the Right believes belong to the landowner and that must be realized when the owner believes that the time has come. The consultation also shows that forestry organisations are in favour of removing the ban on sharing, on the grounds that those who wish to operate actively have the opportunity to purchase additional land and develop their activities for the future. The Norwegian Forestry Association emphasises that landowners are best placed to make decisions relating to their own property. This is an attitude towards agricultural policy that the Right is behind. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e121	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e124	The point of progress relates to everything that the rapporteur has stressed in his statement. That is why we are also in agreement with the Left and Right of the Committee's comments. I will make some additional comments on the matter from the Progress Party. In our opinion, this is a very important matter. It's about one of the most fundamental things in our society, and it's ownership. It is about who should be the governing party, who should have the right to dispose of the property, whether it is public, or whether it is the owner, in this specific case the farmers. We have a situation in Norwegian agriculture where there is a great deal of pessimism and where there is a need for a change in agricultural policy. It has the Storting discussed several times so far in this period. This is a measure that could contribute to new optimism in agriculture. It is a measure that could give farmers greater freedom, and not least it is a measure that will give farmers the right to dispose of their own property. It's important. I would therefore like to commend the rapporteurs for promoting this proposal, which is a completely necessary proposal for a change in order to speed up Norwegian agriculture. Agriculture is the most pervasive industry we have here in the country. Things might indicate that it will continue under this government. It's very negative for the value creation of agriculture, because it's the value creation that needs to be in focus. So when you have little optimism when you have a decline, you also have to put obstacles to getting new capital into the industry, into agriculture. Agriculture must be the only industry in this country where public expenditure is to be negative. It must be very positive if there are some farmers who want to disburse some plots, in order perhaps to invest in a new farm, in order perhaps to buy a slightly larger milk quota to build the farm further for future generations and beyond the drift that the farmer has today. Therefore, I will allow myself to quote from the vote, from the letter that the committee has received from the Council of State. It says: ‘I believe it should focus on an agricultural development where one facilitates the exploitation of the total resources on the farm. The proposal to remove the ban on sharing may lead to the disaggregation of important resources and to a reduction in the possibility of new industrial development on the farm.’» Then it is timely to ask whether it is the individual farmer and owner of the farm who is most suitable and fit to assess what is important resources for his property, or whether it is the state, in this case the Council of State. There is reason to ask questions about the role of the Centre Party in Norwegian agricultural policy. In my opinion, the Senterpartie appears to be the largest limiting factor for Norwegian farmers. The center party is a party that has expressed their belief in farmers. They also have faith in the municipalities. So you have to vote against a bill that gives the municipalities power, that shifts power from the state to the municipalities – and also to the individual landowners. Understand the one who can. I'm not doing it. That is why this is a position in which one is very negative to the ability of Norwegian farmers to act. It is very sad that we have a government that has that attitude towards Norwegian farmers. It has become clear in this case, and it is very regrettable. This means that Norwegian farmers must be thoroughly informed of the attitude of this government towards the industry, and that job should be taken by the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e148	In the case of the nutrition committee, today the proposalers stress that the purpose of the law must be to facilitate the use of land resources in a way that is most beneficial to society and to those who have practised agriculture. I would like to begin by agreeing with the proposers for the purpose of the law of the land. It is important that land resources are used in a way that is most useful to society and to those who have a profession in agriculture. It is said from the proposers that the prohibition of sharing can put undue ties on the ability of the owner to develop or establish alternative business development on agricultural property. Therefore, the proposers take into account, as it says: ‘... an end to the ban on sharing may facilitate changes in the ownership and use context, which will be more consistent than at present with a forward-looking agricultural policy.’ Now it would be easy to ironify the extent to which the former Minister of Agriculture actually contributed to a forward-looking agricultural policy when he had the opportunity. I'm not going to spend time on this. The important thing is that although I agree with the proposers for this purpose, it is possible to ask questions about the means to be used. The proposers say that the means, the liberalisation of soil law, will be most beneficial to society as well as to those who have a profession in agriculture. But the question quickly becomes what is really most useful both for society and for individual farmers. For me, it is not automatic that this is a private matter alone, as the proposers put it. It's not always like what each one does for himself, in sum, becomes sensible and socially useful. It's not like that. With the liberalisation of the division, it will be up to the individual owner of the land to decide what is more appropriate for society. A practical consequence of the delegation will also, after all, be that the large properties become even larger. This is a development SV does not see the necessity of, and a light blue policy that I had hoped Left had left after 17 October. SV is sceptical about such practices as the proposal puts forward, mostly because the proposal will have adverse consequences for soil protection, which is important for too many, and because the off-road resources risk being dissociated so that they do not form part of the operational basis of the property in the future. This is neither beneficial for society nor for the individual landowner in the long term. The desire to use agricultural land for other purposes can continue to be a direct attack on the livelihoods of rural areas. The paradox is that liberalisation will quickly provide less, no more food, contrary to what the proposers claim. Here the proposers meet themselves at the door. This point is also apparent from the hearing opinions and from letters from the Ministry to the Committee attached to the matter. It is interesting to note that the possibility of exemption from the ban on sharing already exists today. There's an opening in the soil law today to divide from agricultural land. To keep us to terminology – it may seem that there are people trying to kick open doors in. This dispensation option is currently being used to a very small extent. Most people would rather rent the earth out than share it out. Therefore – when it turns out that this derogation is not actually used – it seems that the proposers are not just trying to kick in an open door, they are bombing on the open door. I believe that with a check in fact the proposers would have escaped the meeting with the door. SV believes that what is most useful to society must also allow society to think something about through elected politicians. That tells the government parties today about by voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e171	It is a right intention to look for tools that can contribute to creativity, business development and bustling in the countryside, and we clearly understand that this proposal is such an attempt. However, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal today. It comes from the fact that a corresponding proposal to repeal the general ban on the sharing of agricultural property was put to the attention of the Bondevik II Government, with a deadline for replying in November 2005. When the answering machine came in, it turned out that there was a clear plurality in the listening round that went contrary to the change. It was possible to do so. pointed out that the proposal could make it difficult to maintain a varied use structure and that the protection of cultivated soil could be weakened. This is important for the Christian People's Party. There is also reason to recall that the law already opens up today to exemptions from the general ban on sharing, and a concrete assessment in each case can open up for sharing, among others. in the case of busses or new activities. The Christian People's Party is confident that the local government in the municipalities and counties can evaluate this in a good way, but it is nevertheless very important to try to find a good tool that can, as I said, stimulate both creativity in the development of nutrition and the bustling around our villages. So the work of trying to find tools in that ladder, has to go on. We must also dare to look with new eyes at laws that may hinder such development. On the basis of the strong signals that came in the hearing, the Christian People's Party cannot support the proposal that is being made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e182	It is particularly important that agricultural land resources are disposed of in a manner that provides a decent and varied structure of use, taking into account settlement, jobs and not least the need to find operationally sound solutions. In the context of the issue we are discussing today, it means that there must be very restrictive sharing, splitting or – as I call it – fragmentation of agricultural properties. It will be an accident for a forward-looking agriculture. This is also the starting point for the majority to have their position. It is also the starting point of the majority of the hearing bodies when they clearly oppose the proposals of the previous government to amend the law on the soil. The background to this has to do with regard to soil protection, but it also has a background in a desire to ensure that the potential for agriculture to further develop important industrial resources within the framework of an overall agricultural property is destroyed. This would be unfortunate for each user and for agriculture and districts as a whole. So we have to ring a ring around stable and robust agriculture, and we do not do that by fragmenting the agricultural properties, as proposed by the proposers here. It will be short-term and unfortunate, and it does not contribute to the long-term positive development of total resources in agriculture or on the individual farm. We must take it that farming in Norway is not a short-term project. It's supposed to be a long-term project. That's the best thing for the districts. I would like to stress that when it is claimed that not lifting the ban on sharing contributes to cutting down on land ownership interests and agricultural interests, I have exactly the opposite starting point. I think securing the framework around a viable agriculture is the best basis for securing interests and not least ownership interests. I would like to comment on the article from the Progress Party's Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. If I understood him correctly, he said that the Centre Party is restrictive for Norwegian farmers. Then I have to ask what the farmers think about the policy of the Progress Party, with the proposals this party makes in different contexts. In this context, it is not possible to avoid mentioning the economy, proposals in the state budget, etc. The party of progress will release the peasant, says the slogan. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr was there a month ago with that message in many media. The freedom of the Progress Party with regard to the economy of agriculture will in any case not result in us maintaining more than about a quarter of the total. half of Norwegian farms. Is it to free up the pawn? When half of Norwegian farms are lost, it means that we do not get an agricultural farm that will help secure and further develop Norwegian districts, and that is going backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e199	We have a government that has stated that it is concerned about facilitating the situation so that more people can move to the outlying municipalities, and we have a government that says it is concerned about the farmer's woe and well. Everything should facilitate this government to see the benefits of changing the law of the land, so that owners of agricultural properties can manage their own property much more. Unfortunately, in this case, we have seen that the government's close ties with peasants and small centre-party municipalities are punctuated in the wheels for innovation. The government shows that it is pursuing a policy that excludes other citizens who want to live in the countryside, because the prohibition of sharing in Section 12 of the Land Act restricts the right of landowners to make legal arrangements over the property. The starting point is that property used, or may be used, for agriculture or forestry cannot be shared without the consent of the governing authorities. Section 12 of the Soil Act affects legal arrangements over parts of the property. In addition, the prohibition could affect the actual disposal of parts of the property if the owner actually allows a few rights to use parts of it and the transfer of ownership may also be affected. The same applies to land attached, leased and similar rental or use rights for parts of the property, if the right has been replaced more than 10 years ago, or cannot be surrendered by the owner. For the Left, the main objective of agricultural policy is to provide a basis for increased value creation and quality of life based on the sustainable management of agricultural and rural resources. What is the advantage of the village? Well, there's room, there's an opportunity to create attractive properties where we can live, live and work at an affordable price. In our view, the objective of the Law must be to facilitate this, so that land resources are used in the best possible way for society and for those who have worked in agriculture. Land resources should therefore be disposed of in a manner that provides a decent and varied use structure, based on the societal development of the area, with a focus on housing, work and operationally sound solutions. The left will take the view that a ban on sharing can facilitate changes in ownership and use contexts, which will be more consistent than at present with a forward-looking agricultural policy. A breakdown can lead to access for more people to buy additional land, which in turn steers the development towards more robust agricultural units. For farmers who wish to invest in another business, the abolition of the prohibition on sharing provides for the possibility to realise capital values, which may in turn provide a basis for increased investment in business development. For those wishing to settle in the districts, a suspension may facilitate greater access to property for such use. Studies show that the interest in buying small quantities is high. In addition, such a change would place fewer municipal resources in the process of processing a derogation request. Buildings need property development. The Minister of Agriculture and Food indicates that the countryside should be for farmers, not for other people who would like to live on a small farm or a lawn belonging to a farm. Having seen what the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen answers, I would like to moderate the Central Party slogan 'With a heart for the whole country' to 'heart for parts of the country and some of the citizens'. A warning about a more stringent housing obligation and a no to the breakdown of land ownership is a little good and little forward-looking district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e218	I have to say that the last article from the representative of Skjelstad makes it necessary to ask a few questions. I would like to point out that of the 143 municipalities that have expressed their views on this proposal, 17 are recommending it. All of the 17 county agricultural boards and the eight county councils that have delivered their opinions are notregarding the proposal. 16 organisations have expressed their views, and half of these organisations reject the proposal. They believe that the proposal could have adverse consequences for soil protection. Then I almost have to ask the representative of Skelstad: is it so that all of these agencies don't understand agriculture's own best, and is it so that these are opponents of people's ability to build and live in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e223	Odelstinget is currently examining proposals from representatives André N. Skjelstad and Lars Sponheim to lift the ban on the sharing of agricultural property. The proposal is justified on the grounds that the prohibition of sharing may prevent the resources of agricultural property from being used to establish alternative industrial development. As Stortinget knows, then Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim sent the proposal to lift the ban on sharing before he left as Minister of Agriculture and Food. I believe that lifting the ban on sharing will have unfortunate consequences, and I have not proposed such a change in the proposals for amending the law that were sent to Stortinget a few weeks ago in Ot.prp. No 75 for 2005-2006. In my view, it is essential to ensure agriculture with a varied structure of use across the country. Legislation should facilitate the development of individual users within a framework within which total farm resources can be used as a whole. In my opinion, the proposal of the previous government on the release of agricultural property sharing would help to weaken the nutrient base and reduce the possibilities for new nutritional developments. The government attaches great importance to industrial development in rural and rural areas. In particular, we are committed to facilitating the use of the large potential of agriculture based on the entire farm’s resources as we see it. in bioenergy, travel and green care. But such a commitment must be parallel to the development of traditional agriculture. A free drop in property design could open up new opportunities in the short term, but at the same time would help to limit the longer-term possibilities of the property. We need a broad agricultural policy that facilitates the long-term management of resources and takes into account the fact that industrial development and new income opportunities require activity and power in traditional agriculture as well. Development and growth in Building Norway requires long-term thinking, both as regards the way resources are disposed of on the individual property and as regards the design of the framework conditions. The lifting of the prohibition of sharing may be a simple and tempting measure in the short term. However, in the longer term, such a change will have a major impact on the management and development of total resources on agricultural property. The ban on sharing was adopted by Stortinget in 1955. There was a reaction that over many years there had been a significant breakdown and fragmentation of agricultural property. On the other hand, agricultural property was split up, for example. in the case of inheritance settlements, and on the other hand, land was dissociated to a significant extent. This led to a weakening of the resource base on many properties. The prohibition of sharing also has an important role to play in ensuring soil protection. I think the representative of Sørfonn emphasised this in a good way earlier in the debate here today. It is a central objective of the Government to prevent the degradation and redistribution of agricultural land. We see that disaggregation of individual plots often leads to productive land being broken up and thus more exposed to degradation. A lifting of the ban on sharing will undoubtedly lead to increased pressure on these areas, and I therefore believe it would be very negative for soil protection if we allowed it to be free for the sharing of agricultural property. In my opinion, it is likely that, just as before 1955, free access to the sharing of agricultural property will result in a significant number of properties weakening the resource base. This will, for example: be able to take place in connection with the settlement of shifts when several children are to divide an inheritance between themselves, or in connection with e.g.: Divorce. If agriculture is to be able to meet the challenges posed by the current and future operating and economic framework conditions, I think it is more important than ever to see the farm's resources as a whole. At the same time, any societal considerations such as housing, industrial development and soil protection need to be appropriately addressed in assessing exemptions. In the case of any divisional matters, there is therefore a need for a concrete balance between the different considerations involved. This concrete balance would not be possible if the prohibition were to be lifted. Under the rules in force, authorisation for de-allocation must be applied for prior to the possible sale of part of agricultural property. This means that the owner cannot in any case carry out the wishes he or she has with his or her property. The ban combined with a derogation, as is currently the rule, allows municipalities to make such a concrete balance taking into account both housing and soil protection and the desire to stimulate economic development. Such considerations must be assessed in relation to the objective of securing and maintaining the resource base of the properties. I think that's the right solution. When, for example: as regards access to additional land, I cannot see that the current legislation and the practice of it lead to the possibility of additional land being excluded. I believe that today's provisions are better suited to ensuring important social interests than the rules set out in the proposal under discussion here today. This view I have a lot of people in it. In the hearing on the proposal of former Minister of Agriculture and Food, Sponheim to lift the ban on sharing, the proposal was commented on by a total of 185 hearing bodies. It is illustrative that only 20 out of 143 municipalities supported the proposal to amend the provision, and that the proposal was not supported by any state or state agricultural government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e250	It is interesting to listen to the statements made by the Council of State — I quoted from the Council of State's letter to the Committee on this matter, and both in its statement and in the letter, the Council of State says that it is important to exploit the overall resources of the farm and that it can facilitate new economic development. I will ask the Council of State the following questions: Is it the government, the state, or is it the individual landowner who is best able to exercise ownership and assess the resource base on his own property?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e257	I think it was the representative Ole-Anton Tegen who said earlier in the debate today that the sum of individual decisions need not necessarily be consistent with what is socially appropriate. There was a reason why the law came in 1955 — it was about fragmentation and fragmentation, and that one so that one did not get an appropriate property structure in Norway with opening up for almost free disposal of property. My obvious perception is that if you have a policy that makes you have no overall approach, a long-term perspective on what the properties in Norway are going to look like, it means that in the long term it means less opportunities for industrial development. We can take an example: out-land property. I think a lot of people 30-40 years ago couldn't imagine the value of the property in the future. Today we will see that in a lot of district municipalities, the outback part of the property is the most valuable, and I think very many are very happy that you have had a strict code, which makes the outback property today part of the farms in the district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e262	Both the Council of State and the Government parties have demonstrated regional policy considerations when they have referred to the hearing opinions on this matter. If we turn to the hearing opinions, we see that the entire forest industry is ready to remove this ban. When we look at the consultation opinion from Norskog, they write: ‘Distribution opportunities will be a way of ensuring rural settlement, while stimulating active use of agricultural land.’ Looking at the hearing opinions of the Norwegian Forestry Association, they point out that it is landowners who are best placed to make decisions relating to their own property. They write: ‘Sale of property will be able to raise capital for new industrial activities on the farm. In addition, an increased supply of land could help to maintain and, where appropriate, increase rural settlements.’» How is it possible that such a large and important district industry totally disagrees with the thoughts of the Council of State and Government parties on district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e277	Why these organisations believe what they think, the representative almost has to ask them. I disagree with their assessments, and it is justified in what I have said in my post, and what I said in response to the previous line, that I believe that long-term management of agricultural property is the best in relation to business development over time in the countryside. It is obvious that in the short term, a person will be able to access the capital of the agricultural industry by splitting up the properties. It is quite obvious, but then the question of whether there is a longer-term policy in relation to the possibility of exploiting resources on the farm. There I believe, as I said earlier in the debate, that a long-term approach is much better than a short-term approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e282	Governments have long-term limitations and a weakening of the resource base, as well as in their contribution to re-growth. Then it becomes a paradox for me when the same Council of State in its opening offer to agriculture introduced a take-off of 3,000 annual works per year. year, i.e. 30,000 in ten years. Doesn't the Council of State see the problem there if we don't create new optimism by adding capital? In many ways, this is the exact opposite. When we don't have the opportunity to do that, I think we'll also get people who don't want to live very well in the future. We need to create optimism and innovation, and this is in many ways a structural conservatism that I don't think benefits the countryside. Does the Council see that this will be a problem in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e287	Access to capital in District Norway is a challenge – obviously. It's been before, and it's going to be in the future. But then the issue of access to capital is best solved by selling out parts of the future resource base on each farm. I think the answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e292	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e297	It has been made a point by several speakers in this debate that the hearing bodies have been negative on this matter, and there I must say that the main feature of the Christian People's Party in particular disappoints me. First, 143 municipalities do not constitute a majority of Norwegian municipalities. It may well be that the municipalities that have not given their opinion on the bill think this is quite right. In addition, a point is made that the 17 county agricultural governments and eight of the counties are negative. I myself have been a member of the county agricultural administration in Akershu County, and I think that is the place I have been in this country, where the negative attitude towards ownership and to farmers' development opportunities has been strongest. There has been a pervasive negative attitude towards ownership that lacks similarity in that type of body. This is regrettable, both in terms of politicians and employees. So to focus on that kind of attitude – and that's where the representative Gullvåg gets the answer to his question: Yes, I think these are bodies that are opposed to ownership, and then indirectly also opponents of the development of Norwegian communities. So the representative Lars Peder Breck is trying to make a point of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. In fact, the agricultural policy of the Progress Party has not been tested. The agricultural policy of the Progress Party is thus so much opposed in this Chamber that we have not been given the opportunity to test whether the agricultural policy of the Progress Party can contribute to a different direction from that of the current policy. For it is not the Progress Party that has removed 100,000 farmers for the past 25-30 years. That is the policy that the Central Party has been pursuing, and that is the policy that the Central Party and Lars Peder Breck are pursuing when we accept that 4,000 farmers should be lost every year, which has been a prerequisite for agricultural settlement, and which has been the development of recent years. So if you're going to shoot at others, you should take a look at yourself first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e304	The representative Steinar Gullvåg asked a question here instead. It is clear that one who until he entered the Stortinget, also placed in the County Agriculture Board of the Nord-Trøndelag, feels that there is a resistance to change, a fear of the future, in many. But perhaps the fear of the agricultural bureaucrats is just as strong that something is actually going to happen. Last year it was a project in relation to the future. There were several different scenarios drawn up. The scenario that then came out best of it was actually with those who would have confidence and to some extent release people. You actually have to have faith in being able to go into the future. The fear of the future seems to me to reflect very well in the thinking that lies here. If we don't have development, we won't get there either. It is correct, as the representative Asmyhr said here instead of this pulpit, that we have had a large-scale withdrawal of use in agriculture. We have to look forward and look at the possibilities that we have, and that is exactly what is in the proposal made by the representative Sponheim and me. This provides opportunities for the districts, opportunities to develop their own industry, and at the same time will help to create a larger settlement in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e313	I sign up at the end of the debate to link some comments to something I think is very relevant after following the debate. Firstly, we have a number of agricultural properties in Norway of about 180 000, and it has been constant for decades after decades. What is falling is how many are driving these. Now we're at about 60,000. So there's a third of the number of agricultural properties that the Minister of Agriculture wants to get money for his operations. And it rages downwards, regardless of government. We look at this year's offer, where one adds up to a winding-up rate just as it has been in the past. It's the exact same structure. The mismatch between the number of agricultural properties and the number of traditional farmers is increasing and increasing. That's what puts a pressure on the property structure of traditional agriculture. It's just a time question before you have to go in and do something with it, you can't live with that imbalance. What has not emerged in the debate, which I think is very relevant, is precisely that farmers become so efficient, run larger areas, run a lot of rental areas and drive far with their tractors to beat the areas of others. Because that's what's happening now. To a significant extent, we have come into the situation that it is not possible to have living settlements with traditional farmers alone. There's got to be a lot of other people in there. In the Department of State Councils, an interesting research project was held last year, dealing with the future of towns and cities. And the interesting thing about outboards is really two scenarios that stand up to each other. That's what's called for the headwinds, those who are opposed to the change, those who have probably responded to all the hearing statements and would like things to be as they are. They don't like it very much. There'll be farmers pretty much again, and there'll be few of them. The second is the towns that dare think completely differently. And thinking differently in the countryside is very often about getting rid of different people, with different thoughts, different experiences and different education. Why do they come to the villages? Yes, it's not to be pinched inside a narrow space or a block, or whatever it might be. It's to get what's the qualities of the countryside: space, opportunity to do something exciting, do something colorful, do something that's diverse. For that, properties are needed. The buildings don't just need people who live on their properties, they need someone who lives on their properties and brings with them other exciting thoughts and industries as well. More exciting properties are needed in the countryside that new people want to live with and for new ways. That's what this is all about. Today's ban on sharing is a strong signal to Norwegian citizens that the areas of the village are for farmers who think traditionally. If you cancel this, you send a strong value signal – that we want different people who want to live in a different and more colorful and exciting way. And that's what's really the value behind this. Technically, it's not that big a change. Municipalities will continue to have the power to attach a ban on sharing to planning legislation and everything. But it's a very basic set of values that's in it. And the Christian People's Party is failing in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e339	I find that the representatives Asmyhr and Skkelstad have a strange view of the hearing rounds. I assume that it is a principle view, and I then record that institutions such as state agricultural governments in general are conservative and little changeable. The consequence of that view must then be that the opinions of those institutions should not be given particular attention in this context. The same can then be said of the county councils, the county councillors and a number of organisations which have made their views known on the occasion of the case. This is in itself a very interesting principle point of view that we should take with us further. I also record that the representative Sponheim, who obviously did not have the right to promote this matter during the period he himself was the Council of State, believes that selling away property actually contributes to the creation of living settlements. And then it might be interesting to consider who it is that would be interested in buying properties in the countryside. I think the answer gives itself, and I don't think this will be a contribution to creating light in the houses beyond in Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e346	Agriculture has many functions. The main task of agriculture and those in agriculture is to produce food for the Norwegian population — as far as possible. In addition, agriculture has a number of other functions, including: maintain and further develop the Norwegian cultural landscape, which is a resource of invaluable importance for future business. And one has seen the consequences in the village. I come from the municipality of Lyngen in the state of Troms, where we see the consequences of breaking up agricultural properties: you get people who live in the countryside. They're helping to stop a development for those who live there, who want new value creation in the countryside. That is why I would say, in line with what Riis-Johansen said in his main post – he is forward-looking and sees the importance of agriculture in the future, and I hope that he will sit for at least three more years – that I also hope that, after the next major elections, we will not see the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and the consequences we will have of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e353	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 269]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e361	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e540	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e550	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e558	During the debate, the representative Torbjørn Hansen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Decision to the Act amending Law 12 May 1995 No 23 on soil II Law 12 May 1995 No. 23 on land the following changes are made:New § 12 ShareA property that is useful or can be used for agriculture, forestry or horticulture can be shared without hindrance in this law, or rights of use can be established in the ownership. [[Earth floor]] [[Earth floor]] However, sharing requires the consent of the municipality if the division is effected by the second or fifth subparagraphs, or by the regulation under Section 12a.Arable land that is useful or can be used for agriculture or horticulture cannot be shared or disbursed without the consent of the municipality. Obligation to seek a division under the first subparagraph shall also apply to a lease and similar lease or right of use of part of the cultivated land when the right is constituted for a period longer than 10 years, or cannot be surrendered by the owner: [[Leasers]] 1. consent has been given to re-disposal pursuant to Law § 9, and this consent is not obsolete, cf. Section 9, fourth paragraph, or 2. The purpose of the division or division is to transfer the land as additional land to other property that is useful or can be used for agriculture or horticulture. It is a condition that a written contract has been created in which the ownership of the land is to be added and that the land is to be used for such purposes. Consent to division by other links can only be permitted when social interests of great importance speak for it.Buildings located in or near tuna areas cannot be disbursed of property that is useful or can be used for agriculture or horticulture without the consent of the municipality. Dissemination of buildings situated in or near the tuna area may be permitted where the dissociations will not cause damage to the cultural landscape, to tangible operational disadvantages of significant importance, or if social interests of high importance speak for division.Indeed, the municipality does after the second and fifth subparagraphs may be charged to the County Agriculture Board unless the Ministry has established another Board of Appeal.New § 12a Local Rules on DivisionOn application from the municipality, the Ministry may introduce regulations which provide that property which is or may be used for agriculture, horticulture or forestry cannot be shared without the municipality's consent. Such a regulation can be introduced when the municipality of my prescription is desirable in the light of operational solutions or the care of the cultural landscape.When a division by local rule is applied for, the municipality can by decision only pay attention to the concerns underlying the implementation of the rules.New § 12b Property consisting of several registersThe obligation to apply for §§ 12 and 12a also applies to property consisting of several registers if the records are of the same ownership.New § 12c Compulsory auctioning and land changeThe limitations of §12 and 12a do not apply when part of the property is sold at forced sale. The same shall apply if it is necessary to share ownership in connection with a public land change.New § 12d TermsConsent to division under Sections 12 and 12a may be given under such conditions as are necessary for the purposes for which the claims are to be made.New § 12e Loss of sharing consentIf division is not requested within three years of consent being given, consent shall be lost.IIThe changes shall apply immediately.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e628	The Christian People's Party has informed us that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-01-lower.ana.ud858e647	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - It hasn't happened.
