ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e37	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e46	Public sector purchases every year for DKK 240 billion. The Government Party believes that it is socio-economically important that we have a good regulatory framework for public procurement, which stimulates good and efficient procurement. This is an important market, and it is important to keep competitive, especially in relation to newly established and smaller enterprises. Today we're going to deal with Ot. pp. No 62 on changes in public procurement laws. The law is a central tool to ensure that the public acts with high integrity, so that the general public can have confidence that public procurement is done in a socially correct way. In view of the above, the Committee believes that it is preferable that there should now be an addition to the objective paragraph that highlights this concern. In the Odelstingsproposition, it is suggested that the Riksrevision has detected that a series of purchases of goods and services take place without competition, contrary to the legislation. The proposition also shows that there is likely to be a lack of understanding and knowledge of the legislation behind most cases of breaches of procurement rules. This shows that there is a need for increased skills in this area, but it also shows that there is a complex and difficult regulatory framework that we are dealing with, and it is easy to see mistakes. The main proposal in the proposal is the right to charge for illegal direct purchases. We support the proposal to introduce such an infringement fee in order to ensure greater enforcement of the legislation. We support setting a maximum rate of 15 pst. of the purchase value of the fee and that the amount of the fee must be assessed in the light of the seriousness of the breach. The Committee agrees that the infringement fee should only be imposed in the case of intentional and grossly reckless or repeated infringements of the legislation and stresses that the maximum rate of 15 pst. only should be used in very serious cases. The majority agrees with the Government that the enforcement of the fee should be added to the body with the highest competence in the field. The majority support the proposal that enforcement authorities be added to the Public Acquisition Complaints Board, KOFA. We note that many hearing aids have been negative for KOFA to have this role, but we will see that this government has warned that KOFA should be evaluated, and in this context one might say. assess the nature of the KOFA's tasks in the future. Minorities include: are concerned that KOFA has many issues to deal with, and that there is a long time to deal with them. However, the Government of the Revised National Budget has now proposed to strengthen KOPA by 1.5 million. kr., which will increase capacity and help enforce the legislation. Another important change we now adopt in the legislation is that public purchasers should consider universal design in the same way as environmental and life cycle cost considerations when planning their purchases. This will help to increase accessibility for disabled people and is therefore an important change. During the hearing, a number of wishes were expressed for a strengthening of universal design obligations. But we don't think it's likely to reinforce this further right now. We think that the changes that are now being made in the laws will take care of them in a good way. We are otherwise concerned about having a strong and efficient public sector, which provides the citizens with high quality services. In the long term, it is a goal for the Labour Party to simplify public procurement legislation, which many people experience as complicated and square. It is easy to find faults for public buyers, even if they have the best intentions. It is therefore important to focus on measures of competence in this area. The Ministry is now preparing a new guide to the Code, and it is an important piece of work. It is also necessary to provide meeting places for purchasers and suppliers where one provides each other with information on the activities and business opportunities, within the scope of legislation. Good purchasing practices provide professional buyers, and that is good for business and for society otherwise. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Use only applies to who shall be the enforcement body for the fee. Otherwise, there is a big deal in the committee about the other changes. I recommend this setting to Ot.prp. No Sixty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e72	This matter is essentially a matter of trust – the confidence of private operators in the proper conduct of public sector tendering procedures and the confidence of the public to make the best use of the funds managed by the public on behalf of its citizens. Unfortunately, a number of studies carried out around public acquisitions have shown that there have been repeated breaches of this confidence given to the various public institutions. The regulatory framework for public acquisitions is comprehensive, but the fact must never be an excuse for critical purchasing processes. It is the responsibility of the public to employ or train competent personnel to ensure that procurement is carried out properly. It is therefore of great importance that new sanctions be introduced that can act as a rice behind the mirror and that shows that the Storting is taking this problem seriously. Although there is a unanimous committee that considers that discretion should be exercised in the assessment of the infringement fee, the Progress Party considers that it is important that this assessment should be carried out in a narrow manner so that there is no unsustainable practice in relation to non-discrimination. I therefore hope the Ministry will develop clear guidelines for the exercise of discretion in the further process this matter will receive. It is positive that the adjustment also focuses on making the universal design considerations of the procurement regulation more visible. In this way, we show that it is important that we prioritize procurement in such a way as to increase the possibility of use and participation for all in our society. So I've come to the point where the committee splits into two: who is going to enforce the law on public acquisitions and have the opportunity to charge an infringement fee? KOFA is doing an important job to assist the public and private sector in making proper tenders. KOFA acts as advisers and guides, depending on the trust of the parties and on having access to all information about procurement processes to assess whether these are being properly conducted. By giving KOFA responsibility for the enforcement of an infringement fee, you can get a result where information is withheld, because you fear that if you do something wrong in the process, you can be punished for it. If this responsibility is given to KOFA, you will be able to have a situation that compares with the fact that in a court case the judge is regarded as a lawyer. The Progress Party therefore considers that assigning KOFA responsibility for the enforcement of the infringement fee would be very unfortunate and weaken the role of KOFA as an adviser. We believe it is more right to place this responsibility at the Competition Authority. Competition surveillance is familiar with this type of issue and has experience in the use of sanctioning agents. At the same time, the Competition Authority has the authority to enforce the legislation. Finally, I would just like to refer to what the Hearing Officers have said on this issue. 62 out of 68 hearing bodies consider that this responsibility should be added to the Competition Surveillance Authority. That's the whole 91 pst. It is therefore surprising, after hearing the argument in a debate we had in this Chamber yesterday on the law of the land, that the same majority who showed respect for the hearing bodies in that matter are now completely ignoring the hearing bodies in this matter. Yes, even the fact that KOFA leader Bjørg Ven does not want this assignment, seems to affect the majority of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. That's what people's mouths call stubbornness! Well, the representative Eldegard gave a good explanation of the majority's position on this matter when, in today's Business day on 24 May this year, she said: “This is what the government has been in favour of, and we usually do not oppose the government.” Well, whether going against its own government is the rule or the exception for the time being, I'm a little uncertain about. I'm not going to interfere in the debate about who is actually in charge of this country, but I just want to stress that I think the majority's reason to impose the enforcement of the fee to KOFA is a little thin. Finally, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would like to take up the proposal by the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e99	The representative Kåre Fostervold has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e102	I want to start with something that may be a little unusual from this team, that of giving praise to the Government and the Minister of Renewal of the Socialist Left Party. In the proposal, the Government proposes a strong financial penalty against municipalities that violate the procurement law. In my opinion, this is an excellent follow-up to the work of the previous government and a very central tool to ensure better discipline in the follow-up of public procurement legislation by municipalities. It goes without saying that a municipality that can risk up to 15 pst. criminal penalties for the entire amount of the contract for breaches of procurement law are somewhat in line with the law. Thus, businesses achieve a greater degree of transparency, greater non-discrimination and fairer competition in public procurement. The fact that a breach of the local government’s procurement law has been a major problem for the business community shows the chain of complaints to the complainant’s public procurement subject. The duration of treatment in KOFA has increased sharply in recent years and has become unacceptable. At the same time, a lot of complainants get support. It shows that the local authorities' follow-up to the procurement legislation has been very poor. I would also like to commend the Government for strengthening the procedural capacity of the KOFA. This is a matter that the Right has committed itself to and addressed, and it is good that the Government follows up in the revised budget of 1.5 million. kr extra to increase procedural capacity. In this case, the Right is in favour of a minority proposal that requires the Competition Authority to be given the task of issuing an infringement fee. The government has proposed adding this to KOFA. The right has considered both alternatives to be useful, but strong signals have come from a wide range of hearing bodies and from the KOFA itself. As we know, we place some emphasis on what the Hearing Officers believe in cases in Stortingen, and KOPA is an advisory body to assist the public and private in making proper bidding rounds. In that case, it may be a little unfortunate if this body is also to be entrusted with the task of issuing a penalty fee to the actors involved. This may, in the worst case, weaken the trust of the KOFA with its contracting entities and, for this reason, the work may become difficult. Competition supervision is currently responsible for the issue of an infringement fee in the event of a breach of the Competition Act and, in our opinion, it will be easy to do so in the event of a breach of public procurement law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e117	I agree with the Council of State that making universal design considerations visible in the law is an important proposal in the proposition. The ambition and vision that the Council of State has for all products, services and buildings to be planned so that they can be used by as many people as possible, regardless of any disability, is very good. In the Soria Moria platform, it says: «The government will increase its commitment to new universally designed technology.» [[...]] I look at the proposals of the Council of State here today as an important contribution and a step in the right direction to meet these expectations. I would also like to welcome the announced evaluation of KOFA, the complaint subject of public acquisitions, to which the Council of State refers. We know that an increasing number of complaints have led to increased activity for KOFA, and that this, among other things, was the background for increasing the subsidy in the revised budget for 2006. An evaluation is most often of the good to get a sense of reality and, where appropriate, to provide a basis for change and reorientation — as in this case too. I would ask the Council of State to take this evaluation into account that an increasing number of complaints may also be an expression of the increasing number of losers in an increasingly fierce competition. Thus, there is nothing surprising in this development. The most important thing: it illustrates previously repeated points made by the SV that a strong competition policy tends to combine concrete extra costs and theoretical savings. Therefore, on the basis of the cost of competition, the Government should in the future be careful to continue the KOFA with a function where there will be too low a threshold to raise a private appeal case in any public procurement case where someone has lost the competition. The values against a complaint body with a very low threshold are three factors: Firstly, increased bureaucracy and public costs, money that could have been spent on developing well-being for everyone, rather than paying complainants to accept complaints from anyone who seems to have been unfairly treated because they have lost. Secondly, the whole of today's purchasing system supports a system in which the freedom of choice of the public to choose the contracting entity itself is weakened. Public procurement should be possible without the constant risk of being trained by all those who will always feel that they are unfairly treated in a competition. Thirdly, this tender bureaucracy, which we have gradually established in Norway, supports a system in which public procurement is carried out, while private services are provided. I believe this has been a wrong development. We're buying in for over 200 billion dollars a year. I believe that the Government should agree that many of these purchases – with expensive bidding rounds and complaints on the purchase – could have been avoided by the public sector carrying out many of these tasks itself. It could therefore have been interesting if the Government could have identified the extent of public procurement that could have been carried out today by the public itself, to save time and money and to avoid costly bidding rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e150	The Christian People's Party agrees that public purchasers should consider the need for universal design, and we are pleased that that dimension is included in the law. In the Christian People's Party, we have programmed that we will strengthen universal design requirements through public planning, and the purchasing systems underpin this. As has been said repeatedly earlier in the debate, there is a broad consensus in this matter, with one exception. The National Audit Office has revealed a practice that is contrary to the public procurement law. The Christian People’s Party therefore agrees to introduce an infringement fee against illegal direct purchases. Hopefully, this sanctioning option will increase compliance with the rules. Where the disagreement arises in the Committee's setting up, the rules on the charging of infringements shall be enforced. Here I can just briefly say that the Christian People's Party supports the minority in the Committee that the complaint subject of public acquisitions should not do this, but that it should be added to the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e157	It's really sad that it should be necessary to tighten public procurement laws. One would think that all public servants would be eager to find the most affordable way to purchase goods and services, so that it would be as much as possible again to the inhabitants as one should. But once the Riksrevision has uncovered a lack of follow-up to the legislation, and statistics from the mandatory knowledge base OFFIN and the report from the working group that was set up to review the procurement show the same thing, one has to look at what can be done to get those who are responsible for the purchase of goods and services in the public sector to adhere to the rules on putting up competition. The ministry has proposed a fee when none is complying with the legislation. The left margin supports such a reaction mode when there are serious breaches of the rules. In addition, the Left wishes to provide good information and training. We believe that many of the offences are due to the lack of competence of those responsible, the purchasers. The left also believes that both intensification of the rules, fees and increased training will lead to more competition, and therefore there will be more money left in public purchasing goods and services for. We therefore believe that there is no good argument that the fee will lead to greater costs for public organisations. It has, as many have mentioned, been unseemly about who is going to deal with breaches of the legislation and enforce any fee. The department thinks it should be KOFA, who already deals with some issues about illegal direct purchases, to save the construction of a new organisation. In spite of this, as we have heard in today's debate, both the KOFA itself and most hearing authorities believe that this is not a good solution. The left supports the minority proposal. We want to add this work to the Competition Authority, as the working group has also done. The left believes that it is unfortunate that KOPA should gain confidence from its clients by requiring the KOPA to enforce the public procurement code.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e172	Let me start by saying that I am very pleased with the broad support that almost all of the proposals and contents of the odelsting proposition are given by Odelstinget today. It is important to have a broad agreement in this area, because, as many people have been involved, the state and the municipality trade for more than 200 billion kroner every year, mainly from Norwegian traders. Therefore, it is important that we have a good regulatory framework that supports the use of these funds in a socially good and efficient way. So the law on public procurement is going to help. In my opinion, the rules on public procurement are also one of several measures that can prevent camaraderie and corruption. It is not promised today that it is a tool to prevent corruptive purchasing practices. So in order to send a clear signal that ethical requirements are important in public procurement, the government has put forward a proposal for an addition to the law. It will now be stated in the purpose paragraph that the rules will give people confidence that public procurement will take place in a way that will benefit society. It's not because one believes that most of the public buyers are doing the opposite, but it's to support a good culture where the very most, and preferably all, stay within the law in the future. An important proposal in the proposal is the right to charge for illegal direct purchases. As others have pointed out, the Riksrevision has discovered that many purchases of goods and services take place without competition, contrary to the rules. As I said earlier, I would like to stress that there may be various reasons for breaking the rules, such as: lack of knowledge. It is therefore important that leaders in public enterprises invest in empowerment. We know that KS is working to improve the follow-up and understanding of the rules in the municipalities. In addition, my department has just started working with a new law counsellor. The Ministry will also address the need to strengthen the provision of advice. All of these are measures that will contribute to the better enforcement of the legislation. It is important, however, that co-witnesses and preconceived crimes have consequences. The proposal for a penalty means that companies making directly illegal purchases can be punished with a fee of up to 15 pst. of the value of the purchase. The aim is to ensure that purchasers comply more closely with the legislation and to prevent corruption-like practices. The Government proposes that the competence to impose a fee is added to the Public Procurement Complaint Subject, KOFA. Many hearing bodies have our negative side to it, and this is also where the committee divides into several and a minority. Minorities include: point out that it would lead to the loss of confidence as an objective, independent and advisory body. The government is not alone in it. The function of an independent and objective body is not altered by its competence to take decisions in a restricted area. When it concerns the position of an advisory body, it is passed on to all matters other than complaints about illegal direct purchases. The study has worked for more than three years and, through its treatment of over 900 cases, has made important contributions to regularisation and improvement of the level of competence. Therefore, the Government believes that we should continue to invest in the competence and position that KOFA has acquired in this area. The Competition Authority does not have competence in the procurement legislation — it is the KOFA that has it. If one of them had added responsibility to the Competition Authority, they have just enough information about the fee, but then one had to build up a competence on the law on public procurement. It wouldn't be useful, as we assess the situation today. I refer to, as the case-leader was also concerned, that the government of the revised national budget strengthens KOPA by 1.5 million. kr to bring down waiting lists and balances on issues that they have to deal with. I also want to show that we are going to carry out an evaluation of KOFA. I believe that we should not make this mistake about the placement of responsibility for the infringement fee greater than it is. I have notified that once we have carried out this evaluation of KOFA, we will decide where to place the liability for the fee. So that's how long we're going to be on what's in the proposition. Another suggestion that has been discussed by many people is that we make universal design more visible in the laws. There is an ambition here that all products, services and buildings should be planned so that they can be used by as many people as possible, including people with disabilities. It's important. I see that time is running out, so I finally want to inform Odelstinget about something I regret, namely that the planned implementation of the new regulations on public procurement from 1 July will be postponed. This is due to the fact that the EU Procurement Directive has not yet formally been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We've done our job, but we're waiting for several EFTA countries. What I hope for now is that the EFTA countries are doing this job in the fall, so that the regulations can be implemented from the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e197	My question to the Council of State relates to the theme that divides the committee. The Council of State tried to explain why the enforcement of the fee is to be added to the KOFA. I do not think the Council of State came up with clear and good reasons for this, and therefore ask again: why must this be added to KOFA, and the Council of State believes that almost all the hearing bodies, and KOFA, are wrong, and that it is only the department that is clever and smart enough to understand it? And doesn't the Council of State fear that this will weaken the confidence of KOPA?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e204	No, I don't, even though I see that a lot of the hearing agencies have the opposite view. The subject matter and the Secretariat currently have the necessary competence in the procurement legislation. The term consists of highly qualified lawyers with backgrounds such as judges, professors and lawyers. The alternative, as I said, to add it to KOFA, would be to add it to the Competition Authority, which does not have competence in the procurement law. In that case, an environment of competence must be built up within the Competition Authority as one per. today has not. And in relation to what? We don't talk about it coming up with a bunch of things, that's what we're trying to avoid -- there's not going to be a lot of things here, just because people are going to stick to the rules. That'll be a few things. Building up a completely new environment of competence in the Competition Authority and then separating matters, so that all other matters are still to be addressed by KOFA, while these very few are to be placed with the Competition Authority, which we did not think was appropriate as the situation is now. So I've said that when this evaluation of KOFA is in the lead, I'm going to have a review of both what KOFA's tasks are today and what kind of competence they have, and then we're going to see if we're still on this decision. I didn't think we should make this a bigger mess than it is. KOFA has very good skills to do that job, and will do it as best it can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e213	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e218	I'm not going to spend that long. It's just one speaker I missed here today, and that's the representative of Steinar Gullvåg. The reason I missed him in this debate is that in yesterday's debate he made a big point of how important it was to follow the hearing bodies. It was a very decisive principle view for him. So, as the representative Fostervold said in his post, it has 91 pst. the hearing bodies stated that this should be added to the Competition Surveillance Authority. Then I would like to have Gullvåg's explanation as to why, in this particular case, he will not follow the clear and clear consultation signals that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e227	That's the explanation now!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e230	In fact, unlike the Progress Party, which considers that only the hearing bodies with which it is agreed should be given emphasis, I believe that all hearing bodies should be given importance in such matters as this. That is why, on the majority side, we have placed considerable emphasis on the 90 pst. by the hearing bodies which have agreed to the enforcement of this fee by the Competition Surveillance Authority. We have now also received the clear promise from the Council of State that the role of KOFA in the enforcement institute should be evaluated in the course of the process, and we take the floor from the Council of State and assume that this will happen. And then we'll see what the result is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e235	I just want to make a comment on Kåre Fostervold. The representative Fostervold says that it is the public responsibility to make correct purchases. Yes, of course we are some about it – that's all a few about it. So it's also a responsibility, I think, for the Storting to make the rules manageable, and then I thought they should be good to comply, because that's the most important thing, but we're also going to be involved in streamlining and renewing the public sector. It has been a great deal in this matter. As case spokespersons, I thought it had been very good. We disagree whether or not to add KOFA. I just want to refer to that evaluation, and I expect that when it comes, it will be discussed in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e246	No more words have been asked. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e254	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e262	During the debate, the representative Kåre Fostervold, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, made the following proposals: ‘In Act No 16 July 1999 69 on public acquisitions is amended as follows:New Section 7c is replaced by the following:Competition supervision shall be empowered to take decisions on infringement fees under Section 7b.§ 7a, second sentence of the first subparagraph, shall be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e283	The Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they will subsidiaryly support the setting of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7a.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e399	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e409	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-02-lower.ana.ud1474e420	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - It hasn't happened.
