ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e35	The President will propose that two presidents of Odelsting's meetings be elected today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Reidar Sandal. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Reidar Sandal are unanimously elected as presidents of the current and current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e56	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President proposes that there should be up to three lines of response following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e63	The legislative proposals we are dealing with today deal with absolutely fundamental health and care policy issues. As a legislative authority, we have an important responsibility to ensure the protection of privacy and the integrity of individuals. These are fundamental principles of human law. These considerations are of particular importance when public authorities provide health and care services that are deeply involved in the individual's private sphere. It must be emphasised that the clear rule is that patients should consent to health care. On the other hand, freedom from coercion must not become a low-priced right to go down. There may be situations where patients are experiencing a very poor, even life-threatening, health situation as a result of a lack of insight into their own need for health care. The right to be different must not become the freedom of society from responsibility for those who cannot care for themselves. Today’s Odelstinget legislative proposals provide a very concrete balance between these considerations. I am pleased that the Committee broadly agrees that these considerations should be balanced. The legislative proposal has been debated and evaluated for a number of years and is called for by several teams. However, in view of the principle nature of the matter, the Committee is pleased that there has been a thorough process in advance of the specific proposal. In Ot.prp. No 64 the Ministry proposes to provide a basis for the provision of health care to patients without consent who oppose health care, where this is absolutely necessary to prevent significant health damage. Under the law in force, medical care can only be provided by coercive means if an emergency situation exists. This means that in some cases some patients develop a serious health problem before healthcare is given, and that coercive measures are more invasive than if the help was given at an earlier time. The aim of the existing legislative proposals is to ensure that patients without consent are provided with the necessary health care. The strict basic condition that healthcare is necessary to prevent significant health damage will help to protect patients from extensive coercive use. In addition, it is essential that health professionals primarily try less interventional measures than the use of coercive measures. Surveys carried out by the National Centre of Competence for Ageing and Experience from the Health Inspectorate show that there is widespread use of coercive measures which do not have the necessary legal framework. This poses a risk of arbitrary coercive use, where individual patients have been given a self-assessment by the health professionals as to whether it is legitimate to use coercive measures or not. This implies a completely unsustainable legal certainty situation for patients. The draft law under consideration by Odelstinget today provides for the conditions for the use of coercion to be clarified by means of a democratic process. In addition, the proposal provides legal certainty guarantees that ensure transparency, transparency and enforcement. The Committee takes the view that this will also help to reduce the use of coercion, in line with the practice of capping. 6 A of the Social Services Act. If we are to succeed in ensuring the proper practice of the proposed legal provisions, it is essential that the health care staff have good competence. The Committee asks the Government to consider how to implement competences-enhancing measures that contribute to enhancing the competence of voluntary measures to limit coercive use. Although the government parties do not support our remark that the government will inform the Storting about this work, I would challenge the Council of State to comment on this in particular. I will allow myself to ask the State Council to confirm that the Government will take action to ensure that health and care workers have good knowledge of how the use of coercive measures can be limited by voluntary measures. This measure may be essential to ensure that the proposed legal provisions on the use of coercion are considered legitimate. The use of coercion shall never be used to compensate for the lack of financial resources, the lack of staff or the lack of competence. In Ot.prp. No 64 The Ministry also proposes a basis for obtaining and storing biological material for use in research by persons without consent. The aim is to provide opportunities for research that could lead to a better provision of health care for these patients. However, it is important to stress that the procurement of biological material can only be carried out if any risk or disadvantage to the person is negligible. The protection of the integrity of individuals must always outweigh any social benefits associated with research. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's legislative proposals on these premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e85	The proposal on changes in the law on patients’ rights and the Biobank Act is about health care and research in relation to people without consent, i.e. those who do not have the right to consent themselves. The legislative proposal will lead to an improved ability to provide healthcare to these patient groups. The decisions we are making today will, for example, could have an impact on patients who are demented, mentally retarded or suffering from severe mental illness. A joint committee supports the Government's proposal for changes to the Patient Rights Act, and I think the case-rapporteur presented it in a good way on behalf of the Committee. The proposal clarifies that health professionals are required to decide on healthcare that involves a serious intervention, when the patient is competent, lacks consent and does not oppose the measure. However, if the patient does not wish to receive the necessary health care, it shall be possible to provide it if reliable measures have been tested first and if the option could lead to significant health damage. In the case of discussions with relatives, the government parties and opposition parties have separate observations that are substantially similar. I don't think the real disagreement here is very big, but the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have chosen a formulation that points out that the issue should be discussed with the relevant ‘where possible’, and that their views should be taken into account in the assessment. It is thus a unanimous committee that agrees that the question should be discussed with relatives, but when we say that it should be discussed ‘where possible’, it is because there may be cases where it may be particularly difficult to get access to the relatives, or because there may be doubts as to who can at all be considered a relative in the given case. We shall also adopt amendments to the Biobanks Act. If patients oppose the collection of biological material for research purposes, this shall not take place. However, the background to the adoption of legislative changes is that biological material cannot be obtained today from groups that cannot consent themselves, even in emergency clinical situations. The consequences of this may be less knowledge of, and therefore less treatment for, these patients than for others. This is therefore about opportunities for improved knowledge and research, which in turn could improve patient treatment for several groups, such as drug users. dement and humans in emergency clinical situations. With regard to the proposal from the Christian People's Party that has been submitted today, there is something about the owners, as we can look at the beautiful painting behind me, that the Storting should be divided into two departments when dealing with the law, and I guess they did it to signal that law changes are one of the most important things we do. That is why it is difficult for us to accept a proposal that we have not been dealt with in committee and on which we were not prepared, and that is why in the government parties we have to vote against this proposal, but that does not mean that we are showing a reluctance to the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e100	As has been said before, both of these legislative proposals deal with ‘persons without consent’ which ‘publicly are unable to understand the meaning of consent’. Fortunately, there has been a great deal of consensus in the Committee during the examination of the matter. The proposal promoted by the majority of the Committee on the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left is not about the legal text or the content of the law as such, but about the financing itself of the Health Authority as a Supervisory Authority. The majority of the Committee considers that the resources needs of the Health Authority are quite obvious here. In this context, the following proposals have been made: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for increased appropriations to the Health Authority’s work on a new chapter. 4 A of the 2007 Revised National Budget on Patients’ Rights Act.’ The disagreements in this matter are not entirely irrelevant. Where government parties use the phrase ‘the question shall be discussed with relatives where possible’, the majority – the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People’s Party and the Left – uses the wording that ‘the question shall be discussed with relatives and that their views shall be taken into account in the assessment’. It's a little bit of a shade, but it's actually important. In other words, for the majority – the Advance Party, Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – it is not enough for health professionals to make a telephone call to relatives ‘where possible’. What if it's busy? What if the person you were going to have was out? In principle, the health worker has met the criteria used by the government parties. In our view, this is not a good enough solution. That is precisely why we want a stronger commitment, and that ‘the issue should be discussed with relatives and their views taken into account’. It should also be mentioned that several hearing bodies, to which the Progress Party subscribe, point out that it is unfortunate that rules on coercive use are enshrined in the Patient Rights Act. The Party does not agree that the use of coercion is considered to be a right. On the contrary, it is a method to be used in consultation with the patient’s relative as a last resort. Should the patient be in focus, I think it's very important to take into account that this has to be fulfilled. So to the proposal of the Christian People's Party. As the previous speaker also said, when you get such a proposal on the table on the day you are going to vote, instead of having it discussed in the committee, we choose not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e116	With regard to the amendments to the Patient Rights Act on Health Assistance to Patients without Consenting Competence, it is positive that the Department has carried out a comprehensive consultation and that, in other words, all the Hearing Officers agree with the bill in a serious way. In areas where some have disagreed, the Ministry has in some cases also adjusted its proposal. There is also a great deal of agreement between the parties on the Stortinget on the legislative proposals, but still some differences, which emerge in the committee setting. Christian People's Party agrees with the proposal of Section 4-6 that health professionals should make a final decision on health care when a patient is authoritative, but lacks consent and does not oppose the measure. We also believe that it is essential that the healthcare system actively engages in discussions with its stakeholders and that their views should be included in the decision-making basis. The amendments to the Patient Rights Act are also aimed at preventing and limiting the use of coercion. In my opinion, it is very positive that the department so clearly states that coercion must never be used on grounds of lack of resources or personnel. Unfortunately, monitoring has shown that coercive measures are widely used without legal authorisation. When the reasons for the use of coercion are evident, for example: lack of staff and lack of qualified staff is alarming. The responsible leaders must ensure that the clear intentions of this law are fulfilled. It is therefore very important for the Ministry to ensure that this law is followed by fully specific measures of competence to maximise the use of voluntary measures by staff and not to impose coercive measures. And it is essential that such training be given in parallel with the implementation of the law. That is why the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have asked for feedback on this already in the revised national budget. It will be completely wrong to introduce such an important and decisive training need as part of the Competence Plan 2015, as proposed by the government parties in the suspension. This is about ensuring patient rights for vulnerable groups of patients, and when there are already major shortcomings and breaches of legal provisions regarding coercion, it is essential to provide rapid training when we are about to initiate a stricter law. A clear general rule is that consent should be obtained from the patient prior to the provision of health care. However, in some cases coercion is necessary in order to provide absolutely necessary health care to persons without consent who are opposed to health care. Then it is important, as the law specifies, that it is only exceptional and on strict terms that this can be done, as the rapporteur pointed out. I therefore expect that there will be a reduction in the use of coercion after this amendment is implemented. With regard to the proposed amendments to the Biobank Act, the Christian People's Party will point out the importance that if a person opposes the collection, storage and processing of biobank material for research, this should be respected. However, if a person gives his consent without consent, consent shall be obtained from relatives or guardians. It is essential that the Ministry also facilitates, by means of this legislative amendment, measures to increase the level of competence, so that we never risk putting research interests ahead of the protection of the integrity of individuals. I would also like to refer to proposals submitted in the Chamber today from the Christian People's Party, which is identical to one of the hearing bodies' proposals contained in the motion for a resolution, that, in the case of research into clinical emergency situations in persons without consent, consent should be specified as soon as the emergency situation is over and consent can be obtained. The information shall be deleted if such consent is not granted. This is a proposal that is an alternative to Section 12 new eighth paragraph of the vote – not the sixth and seventh paragraphs, as the proposal also states, but only the eighth paragraph – small e. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e139	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e142	This case is about the weakest people in our society, simply people without consent, that is. persons who are unable to understand what consent means. Then it's important to have the individual's integrity and say legal certainty in focus. This issue also addresses the role of the dependants, and not least the difficult balances faced by health professionals. I think that the discussions in the committee have been both good and proper, and we have seen that the hearing process has been thorough. I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that such delicate problem settings have such a broad anchoring both interdisciplinary and cross-political terms. Finally, I would just like to say that the Left will support the proposal that Mr Davøy has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e151	When the Government proposes new rules in the Patient Rights Act, it applies, as many have been involved, to health care for people without consent who oppose help. These changes could have consequences for people with senile or mental retardation, severe mental illness or other reasons for lack of consent. The main objective of the legislative proposal is to clarify and extend the legal basis for providing healthcare to patients who lack consent so that legal certainty is better ensured. That is why I am pleased to note that there is a broad consensus on the proposal. The conditions under which health care can be provided despite the patient’s resistance include, inter alia: failure to provide material health damage to the patient and the need for health care. Health care for those who oppose health care cannot be provided without first being tried with reliable measures, unless it is clearly pointless to try it. Decisions shall be taken by the healthcare professional responsible for health care. Serious measures, such as: that the patient must be admitted to a health institution, decisions shall be taken after consultation with other qualified health professionals. The proposal for new rules contains several legal safeguards for the patient and his/her immediate family. The decision shall be subject to an appeal before the State Health Authority, and specific rules on judicial review have been proposed. The Committee asks the Ministry to ensure an evaluation of the new provisions and to submit the evaluation to the Stortinget. In such an important and I would also say difficult area as this is, it is absolutely necessary to follow the practice and development very closely. I can confirm that an evaluation will be carried out and that of course the Stortinget will be kept properly informed about it. I have also noticed that the Committee is concerned with implementing competence-building measures in the municipal health and care services that contribute to the training of voluntary measures as alternatives to coercion. I agree that this is very important and assumes that, in addition to the ordinary guidance on the new provisions, action can also be taken within the Competence Plan 2015. I have also noticed that the Committee is concerned that the Health Authority must have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks under the law. I am also concerned that the Health Authority should be able to do so, and I believe it has been taken care of in the proposal that the Government has put on the table. But, of course, I want to keep an eye on the resource situation in the Health Authority in relation to the tasks they have and the tasks they receive. With these proposals, I believe that we have taken an important step forward to improve the legal certainty of this group of people. In the case of amendments to the Biobanks Act, which contains consent provisions for research biobanks, the main purpose is to ensure that authorised persons without consent are able to surrender biological material to research under specified conditions. It is important to now open up the necessary medical and health research that can benefit demented, mentally retarded, in emergency clinical situations and others without consent. This is also how we can acquire knowledge that can be used to help this group, because people without consent are a vulnerable and vulnerable group who may have difficulty in self-responsiveness. I believe that the bill takes this into account and provides special protection to safeguard their interests, so that they are not subjected to mental or physical violations. If the person opposes the collection, storage and processing of biobank material for research purposes, this shall not take place. The same applies where there is reason to believe that he would have opposed this if he had consented. Furthermore, the Ministry, as is known, has proposed that the closest relatives be consented before holding or processing biobank materials for research purposes, in the absence of clinical emergency situations where it is impossible to obtain the consent of the immediate relatives. I am pleased that there is broad support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e177	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 208]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e193	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President proposes that there should be up to three lines of response following contributions from members of the Government. Then the president proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e200	There is a broad consensus that people who are totally dependent on the help of others, and who are further in a situation where they cannot speak their own case and defend themselves, must be sure that those who are to provide them with help are to trust. The Committee therefore supports the Government’s proposed legislative changes to ensure that personnel responsible for providing health or social services to children or persons with a developmental disability are required to have a police record, in order to prevent sexual abuse. Children and persons with a developmental disability receiving health and social services depend in particular on the personnel providing them with the services. Children and persons with developmental disabilities and their relatives must have confidence and trust in the personnel from whom they receive services. The Committee has not supported the proposal of the Progress Party that staff providing health and social services to the elderly should be subject to the requirement of a police attestation, since this is a more heterogeneous group which is more able to speak its own case. However, the majority of the Committee will consider in the context of the examination of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, whether other vulnerable groups should enjoy the same protection as children and people with developmental disabilities. In this context, it is also important to stress that police attestations for health and social workers will not always be sufficient to prevent abuse of children and people with developmental disabilities. Additional measures will be necessary. Such measures may include better internal control and organisation of work, increased awareness and knowledge of the prevention of sexual abuse and a good working environment. The Committee has also assessed the existence of criminal offences other than sexual offences to be reported in the police record. The majority of the Committee has decided to await the conclusion of a working group set up by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. It shall review all arrangements with police attestations for persons performing tasks in relation to children and young people. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party want the information contained in the police record to include violence and drug crime. Furthermore, the Committee supports the Government’s proposal to allow the State Health Authority to revoke the right of appeal granted on the basis of the corresponding authorisation in another country, if the right of appeal granted in the other country is lost. As regards the proposal of the Government to amend the authorisation title of the pharmacist, the Committee also supports this proposal. The authorisation title should reflect the level of professional education of pharmacists, i.e. whether it is a Master’s degree or a Bachelor’s degree degree course. Since the pharmaceutical is part of both courses, the word pharmaceutical is to be included in both titles, even if this implies relatively heavy titles. However, the Committee supports the Government’s proposal that the new titles should therefore be pharmacies and pharmacists respectively. On the basis of this presentation and what has been stated in the written material, I recommend that Odelstingen join the referral of the Health and Care Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e221	It is a unanimous committee that supports the Government's legislative proposals in the areas covered. However, the Progress Party has found reason to propose that police clearance should also be possible for home-based service providers. Furthermore, the Progress Party has found the basis for proposing to extend the content of the Police Certificate. In other words, the Progress Party wants to extend the police record to include violence and drug crimes. We have recently seen a number of examples of home-based care being asked questions about exactly what is wrong with some people. We see that there are a number of different temporary workers that are used in this connection, and we know that the group that is there at home, who receives home care and other care, is a vulnerable group. We also know that in a number of older people there are significant quantities of drugs, and relatively powerful drugs, which are used. Therefore, in this case, the Progress Party finds reason to submit proposals that are in line with the desire to safeguard the interests of these persons. If the proposal of the Progress Party were to fall, we would like to announce that we also support the position that exists, so that it is taken into account in the vote. I don't think there's so much disagreement here. But the Progress Party is acting out as usual, not to waste time, this matter little for the sake of all the patients and persons who may be subjected to abuse. In order not to be so, we already want to promote this bill. Finally, I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party to which the rapporteur has referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e236	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e239	First, I would like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office for a thorough and good review of the matter. It is gratifying that a proposal which I myself took part in taking the initiative already in 1999 is now finally being implemented. The fact that several of the representatives of the Right submitted proposals for a police record for health professionals seven years ago was a specific request from a mother. She told how a man who had been convicted several times for sexual assault, later educated himself to be a doctor and thus came into contact with children through his professional practice. This meant, at the Court's discretion, that children could be exposed to an unacceptable risk in the face of an employee in healthcare, who is initially dependent on having confidence. Employees in health and social services face people closely, often in vulnerable phases of life. Children and people with developmental disabilities are particularly vulnerable in this relationship with public authorities. The proposal on police attestations for health and care professionals believes that we will help prevent abuses against these people. At the same time, it is important to note that the requirement to provide a police record implies a reduced level of data protection for job seekers. It is therefore important to limit the requirement of police attestation to situations where the need to protect others is particularly important. To this end, the right supports the proposal for a police attestation for health and social workers working with children and those with developmental disabilities. However, like the majority, we would like to assess whether the requirement for police certification should also apply to other professions working with vulnerable user groups, in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006. We believe that such a legislative amendment actually requires a little more investigation than that it is merely promoted like this over the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e255	Children and people with developmental disabilities receiving help from the health and social services are particularly vulnerable. That's why it's very important that we protect these groups from abuse. The aim of introducing mandatory police attestations for health professionals working with children and people with developmental disabilities is precisely to prevent the risk of sexual abuse. We need to be focused on the relevant personnel groups we want to meet with this police certification system. It is therefore important to clarify, as is also done in the proposal, that the scheme should not apply to staff who are only occasionally in contact with children. But children are extremely vulnerable, and the same is true of people with developmental disabilities. They need special protection. In the opinion of the Left, it would not be sufficient, as others have also said, only with a police record. Other types of internal controls and procedures that follow up these groups' need for protection are, of course, necessary. When it comes to the issue of criminal offences other than sexual crime, the Left clearly wishes to await the outcome of the deliberations of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality on the issue of police attestations for children and young people. The left would like to stress that the requirement for a police attestation should only apply to personnel working with groups with a special need for protection. For the Left, it's a very important principle that as long as you've settled by punishing, you have a new chance of participating in the same line with others in society. For the Left, it is important to point out that it is not possible or desirable to eliminate all risks in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e266	Children and persons with disabilities receiving health and social services are, to whom all speakers have been assigned, particularly dependent on the personnel providing them with services. It is therefore essential that they, and their relatives, have confidence and trust in the personnel from whom they receive health and/or social services. This includes, inter alia: that they should be sure that the children or persons with reduced development do not encounter health or social workers who have been convicted in the past or who are intended or accused of sexual crimes. However, I would like to stress that the presentation of police clearance will not be enough to prevent abuse of children and persons with developmental disabilities. The presentation of a police certificate may prove to be a false security. This is why it is important to take other preventive measures as well. It is to have good employment practices, it is to have well-organised working environments, it is to follow up employees, etc. Together with the requirement for a police record, it could contribute to increasing the safety of children and people with developmental disabilities. Questions may be asked about which criminal orders should be included in a police certificate and which groups of persons should be protected. I have noticed that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that information contained in the police record should also include possible violence and drug crime. The government believes that a comprehensive review of the conditions to be included in the police certificate is important. That is why, as many have pointed out, a cross-ministerial working group has been set up to examine which criminal order should appear in a police certificate for staff working with children. For the government, I think it is right to wait for this working group to come to a conclusion on this point. I can agree with the majority of the Committee where they point out that, in general, all recipients of health care services, in addition to children and those with disabilities, will of course benefit from measures to prevent abuses of different types. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee wants to assess the extension of the use of police attestations for professional groups providing services to vulnerable user groups other than children and young people, in conjunction with, among others. the treatment of the care notification. I would therefore like to await this treatment. With regard to more general questions relating to police attestations, such as access to a review of the police record, and whether the requirement should include staff already employed, this will be further assessed by the Ministry of Justice in the context of a new police record law. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that there is a broad consensus on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e283	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e286	The background that I take the floor is the contribution of the representative, Mr. Sjølis. She points out that the proposal of the Progress Party is a proposal that has only been presented above the table. This is a proposal which has been examined in the Committee. It has been attached to the committee setting and has been treated as such. For the sake of the record, I would like to point out that this is not a proposal that has been promoted here without treatment. It has been at the committee setting all along and has been actually developed in consultation with and with the assistance of the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e292	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 211]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e305	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e313	During the debate, Mr Davøy put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The President notes that the distributed proposal has been corrected, so that the proposal concerns only Section 12 of the new eighth subparagraph, point (e). The proposal was not submitted by 1 p.m. 09.00, cf. the first paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, but the President will propose that the proposal be examined. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e572	For the second paragraph of Section 12 of the eighth subparagraph, point (e), an aberrant proposal is made. That is proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, which sounds. ‘Proposal from the KrF for the amendment to the new eighth paragraph of Section 12 of the Biobank Act, point (e) shall be replaced by the following: ‘Consent shall be obtained from the person or his immediate relative as soon as the emergency situation is over and consent can be obtained. The information shall be deleted if such consent is not granted. Consent after the first, fifth or sixth subparagraphs is a prerequisite for further research and shall be obtained as soon as possible.’» The right and left have notified that they will support the proposal. The President will first vote on Section II, Section 12, new eighth paragraph, box saw e. Then there will be a vote over the rest of the Committee's position under A.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e590	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e600	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e610	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e618	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No II of 2 July 1999 64 on health professionals etc. the second paragraph of Section 18 shall be amended as follows:If the healthcare professional is required to provide services to children or persons with reduced development, the police record referred to in the second paragraph of Section 20a shall be attached to the notification. If the healthcare professional is to provide services to the resident nursing or elderly persons, the police record referred to in the fourth paragraph of Section 20a shall be attached to the notification. If the notification contains a police certificate with comments, it shall be transmitted without delay to the State Health Authority. Paragraph 20(a) shall be replaced by the following:§ 20(a) Requirements for a police attestationHealth personnel to provide health care to children or persons with developmental disabilities are obliged to provide police attestations in the event of an offer of employment, upon the conclusion of an agreement under the municipal health service law § 4-2, first paragraph, the dental service law § 4-2, first paragraph, and the specialist health service law § 2-1a, fourth paragraph, as well as in the case of notification of opening, taking over and entering into private activities, cf. § 18. The certificate of police shall show whether he is sighted, accused, indicted or convicted of: (a) sexual offences as referred to in the criminal law §§ 192, 193, 194,195, 196, 197, 199, 200 second paragraph, 201 (c), 203 or 204, (b) crimes against life, body and health as referred to in the criminal law § 229 third criminal option, 231, 233 and (c) as referred to in the criminal law § 267 and 268. The police record shall not be more than three months old. The certificate for infringements referred to in point (a) above shall be exhaustive. Health professionals required to provide health care to residents or elderly persons, subject to the same conditions as referred to in the first subparagraph, to provide police attestations. The police record shall show whether he is sighted, accused or convicted of: (a) sexual offences referred to in the criminal law §§ 192 and 193, (b) crimes against life, body and health as referred to in the criminal law §229 third criminal option, 231, 233 and (c) provided for in the criminal law § 267 and 268. The police record shall not be longer than three months.The duty referred to in the first and third subparagraphs shall not include personnel providing such services only occasionally and who would not generally be alone with groups of persons as referred to.The person charged with, or convicted for, infringements as referred to in points (a), (b) or (c) of the second subparagraph is excluded from providing health care to children or persons with developmental disabilities.The person convicted by the police certificate for infringements as referred to in points (a), (b) or (c) of the fourth subparagraph is excluded from providing health care to domestic residents or elderly persons. 81 on social services etc. Paragraphs 8 to 10 are replaced by the following:Sections 8 to 10 Police StatementThe municipality or other employer shall require a police certificate from the person employed in a post of employment involving the provision of services, cf. § 4–2, for children or persons with developmental disabilities. The police record shall show whether he is sighted, accused, indicted or convicted of: (a) sexual offences as referred to in the criminal law §§ 192, 193, 194,195, 196, 197, 199, 200 second paragraph, 201 (c), 203 or 204b) crimes against life, body and health as referred to in the criminal law § 229 third criminal option, 231, 233 and c) as referred to in the criminal law § 267 and 268. The police record shall not be more than three months old. The certificate for infringements referred to in point (a) above shall be exhaustive.The authority or other employer shall require the police record of the person employed in a position involving the provision of services, see: § 4–2, for residents who are in need of care or older persons.The police certificate shall show whether they are intentional, accused or convicted of: (a) sexual offences referred to in the criminal law §§ 192, 193, (b) crimes against life, body and health as referred to in the criminal law §229 third criminal option, 231, 233 and (c) provided for in the criminal law § 267 and 268. The police record shall not be longer than three months.The duty referred to in the first and third subparagraphs shall not include personnel providing such services only occasionally and who, in general, will not be alone with groups of persons as referred to.The person charged with, or convicted of, infringements as referred to in points (a), (b) or (c) of the second subparagraph is excluded from carrying out the work or tasks referred to in the provision of children or persons with disabilities.The person convicted by the police certificate for infringements as referred to in points (a), (b) or (c) of the fourth subparagraph is excluded from carrying out the work or tasks referred to in the provision of domestic care or elderly persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e938	The Progress Party has announced that it will subsidize the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e950	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e960	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-lower.ana.ud815e1016	Thus, today's map has been processed.
