ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e28	Today, I want to bring forward four areas that are important for the government's environmental policy. The government wants to increase efforts to ensure natural diversity, including: as part of our national target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. The UN report ‘The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment’ shows that ecosystems are weakened and that development threatens human well-being. The responsibility to reverse the trend lies in all countries, including us. Norway has a special responsibility for the conservation of certain species. The villach is one of them. During the harvest session, we will present a proposal for the protection of the wild species and the completion of national salmon and salmon fjords. We will then have this whole important system in place to ensure better protection of the wild species in our main watercourses and fjords. Villreinen is another Norwegian species of responsibility. The revised national budget allocated funds to two wild reindeers. The government will follow up this session effort. New safeguards are coming to a close. The Directorate for Nature Management has sent its recommendation on protection in Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. Next week, I'm going on an inspection in the area. The draft budget will be presented to the Stortinget in early 2007. The government also wants us to manage and take better care of our protection areas than we have now, for example. through the strengthening of natural oversight. So a little bit about the outdoors. It is important to ensure public access to natural and outdoor areas. The pressure is greatest in the coastal zone and around the big cities. The government has changed the policy in relation to the beach zone, initially by reintroducing the assistance for legal assistance to municipalities. The importance of strengthening the protection of the coastal zone will be attached to the revision of the Law on Planning and Building. Cooperation with the major cities will continue. As part of the outdoor and natural environment effort, the Government will develop its own law for the protection of Oslomarka. So a few words about climate. Globally, man-made climate change is the biggest environmental problem we face. Our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol must be fulfilled, an essential part through action within the country’s borders. It will require a national effort. We have started work on sectorial climate action plans, and we will present our own big message in 2007. Here we will present concrete targets for emissions and measures for each of the key greenhouse gas emissions sectors. The government is strongly committed to the capture and storage of CO2 on more renewable energy use and on energy saving. We want to increase the use of biofuels and biofuels. We want waste to replace fossil fuels to a greater extent than now, and are therefore aimed at banning the landfill of organic waste from 2009. A new building regulation is being worked on which more stringent energy is required for buildings. All of these examples show how the efforts for reduced greenhouse gas emissions are to be made on a broad front. At the same time, we are increasing pressure to bring about a more global climate regime with stronger reductions after 2012. Yesterday, I received the report from the Low Emissions Committee, with suggestions on how Norway can reduce its emissions by two thirds by 2050. The committee says that such a reduction is necessary, possible and not unreasonablely costly. The last point I want to mention is environmental poisons. In a recent visit to China, I was able to see what damage to human health and the environment can result from pollutants and chemicals. Fortunately, in this field we are further ahead, and we are going to have a new bet on it in the coming year. Norway is said to be a clear environmental nation. This government shall achieve this objective through both national and international actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e54	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e57	It surprises me a little when, in this debate, the Minister for the Environment does not particularly wish to mention the CO2 management projects. During the debate we have heard a lot about how the Government has given a number of concessions both for the construction of gas power and also for wind power – Vikna is mentioned. Outside the hall, we have heard today that Vikna is suspended due to insufficient support from the Government, and that Mongstad does not get the emission permit they depend on to start building gas power plants there. At the same time, the state's own power company, Statkraft, is building two gas power plants in Germany. Is the Council familiar with the fact that the state company is building gas power plants in Germany, while it is not willing to grant an emission permit to Statoil's plant in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e65	There is no doubt that our knowledge of climate change is urgent to reduce global climate emissions. And from that point of view, it's going in the wrong direction if we think we're going to build gas power plants in Norway without ensuring the establishment of a technology for CO2 management at the same time. I cannot forge what requirements are to be made in the emissions permit for the plant at Mongstad, but I can tell you that the matter is under consideration, and I can also say so much that we are in the final phase. But the government has clearly said in the Soria Moria statement that all new gas power plant concessions should be based on CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e76	We are in the middle of a very demanding power situation in Norway. The last time I discussed this with the Minister for Environmental Protection, she referred the Norwegian people to – it was the government's recipe when it was going to be so difficult in winter – to put on a hood, shower less and that you had to find yourself at higher power prices. On one point, I actually expected support from the Minister for the Environment and an active attitude, and it is related to renewable energy. In winter the government scraped the system with green certificates, and said that there would come a system that was at least as good. Today, the Government has presented this system. It turns out that renewable energy support is half, compared to the Government's system, with green certificates. Many renewable energy projects are now being scrapped. A new lifting breach from the lifting breakage. Can the Minister for the Environment explain to Stortinget how this can be at least as good, when the entire energy industry today has determined that they must scrape projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e83	Today there is every reason to rejoice. It is clear that there are many politicians and others who want to try and bring down the joy that the Norwegian people are going to have over what has been presented today. The government has made a huge effort, and today it has provided a fund of $20 billion, where we have a historic commitment to renewable energy that no previous government has ever been in the vicinity of. Then I realize that the opposition wants to say that this is not very big, and that we should have more. But I have to say that today there is every reason to lift the flag. The government has invested. This is a future project. We stand with our backs straight, and we know that the Norwegian people are happy that we are now betting on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e90	SV's parliamentary leader, Inge Ryan, said in a reply to Knut Arild Hareide earlier today that SV will keep the environmental tab high in the gas power case, but he gave no answer to how. There may be reason to ask the Environment Minister from the same party if she sees fit that this tab should differ in CO2 emissions far beyond our Kyoto commitments. An important step towards reducing climate change emissions will be to develop technologies such as: offshore wind power. The Council of State did not mention any of this. Unfortunately, Norway is lagging behind in the development of new environmental technologies and the transition to renewable energy sources, among others. because so many of our wisest heads work with fossil fuel technology. However, today, as was also mentioned now, the Government came up with proposals that would be an alternative to the green certification system, as the Government previously wrecked. But already – not from the opposition, but outside this house – there is doubt that the government's arrangement will be sufficient to further expand wind power even with standard technology. And my question is, what will the Minister for the Environment do to ensure that we have the necessary development of a more climate-friendly technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e102	It's clearly that we can always do things even better and more comprehensive and bet even stronger. In what has been presented today, and in the past, we have stated that Norway should be a leading country in the field of environment and renewable energy. We have taken the first step in a direction that means that we are getting a commitment now to renewable energy that Norway has never had before. That's all the reason to premiere. So for the CO2 management. I have also tried to say something about this, namely that in the handling we are now dealing with, two main pillars are added. One is the serious climate situation we have in the world, and the other is the Soria Moria declaration. There we have said that new concessions should be based on CO2 management. It stands firm, and we have to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e115	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e118	Fisheries and aquaculture are the basis of life for many coastal communities. Thus, fisheries policy is the basis for a more active industrial policy in coastal areas. The main objectives of the fisheries policy have broad support both for the coastal population and for the fishing industry. They shall ensure the sustainable management of fish resources, contribute to increased value creation, housing and employment, and shall ensure national right of access, ownership and resource management. The fishing resources are our common property. Laws and regulations shall ensure the management and control of the resources and the allocation of fishing quotas by the Community. After a period of liberalisation and deregulation, the fisheries policy is now changing. Just because the community has a responsibility for settlement and employment across the coast, and because fishing resources are, after all, limited, we cannot leave the development of fisheries to ourselves or to the market. Then we know what's going on. Then we get additional owner concentrations, both in the fleet and on land. Then it's only the strongest that survives. We see examples of this in other countries. Both professionals in the industry and the processing industry depend on stable and predictable working conditions. It is therefore important that the price change in Norwegian fisheries policy has the widest possible anchor in the industry – and of course also in Stortinget. People along the coast have great expectations of the Government. This shows the ongoing and partly contradictory debate on the structure of the fishing fleet. Without prejudice to the examination of the various proposals of the Structural Committee, I note that there is still a relatively broad consensus in the industry on the main features of the fisheries policy, as if: the fact that the fleet’s overcapacity must be reduced as it is not desirable to have further ownership concentration in the fleet has a clear manager responsible for the fishing fleet to contribute to coastal activity and strengthen the nutrient base of the fishing communities that we should continue to have a profitable fleet that manages without State aid to intensify the fight against environmental crime and overfishing in the Barents Sea. It is important to take this consensus into account when arguing about the individual elements of structural policy. Fisheries policy is also an important part of foreign policy. Without overfishing in the Barents Sea and the Svalbard fishing protection zone, without our powerful neighbours in the east being able to establish an effective control regime, we also have no power to create sustainable fisheries management in our own waters. Illegal fishing in the Barents Sea is not just a threat to fishing resources. It also threatens the living conditions of all who live and live on the coast of the north. It also makes demands on ourselves. If we are to gain respect and understanding from other countries and other countries' fishermen, we must also have our own house. I noticed that the Norwegian Maritime Association among others. now requires an ethical upgrade to the fishing fleet in order to counter fishing jacks, and assumes without delay that this is necessary. The fishing industry is also international in the sense that we are competing with other countries and that we are dependent on access to a viable international market. If we are to compete with low-cost countries, which are able to offer cheaper fish products than we are, we must take advantage of our advantages by offering quality, high-quality products that defend our costs. These markets exist. The unconditional success of the marine industry in Japan is an example of this. In 2005, we sold fresh salmon for more than half a billion dollars on a very demanding Japanese market. We are actually able to serve fresh salmon on Japanese dinner tables less than 24 hours after the salmon has been slaughtered. This is the future challenge for the Norwegian fishing industry and for the processing industry. I had almost said that at the moment that we are able to offer our local market in the Nordic region and in Europe enough fresh fish of good quality, consumers are willing to pay well for it. This is a reason why we would rather go to the fish shop and pay 156 kroner for fresh shrimps than buy frozen shrimps in the nearest Rema store for 29,90 kroner. So simple and so difficult is one of our most important fisheries policy challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e157	We heard earlier today the Prime Minister, who in 20 minutes explained the main issues of the Government in the coming year almost without mentioning industrial policy in one word. The installation was an outline of good measures on the expenditure side of the State budget, while the basis for at all there is some cost side to divide from, apparently not in focus. Jens Stoltenberg's old favourite slogan, «cup for sharing», is not only forgotten, but is clearly located at the bottom of a food policy jewelry box that has gone in a wrangled lock. The same pattern remains in the mainstream: no good news for research, for the business community and those who work with the idea of investing in Norwegian business and Norwegian workplaces. No willingness to invest in what is to ensure well-being. The active industrial policy that was formerly the great mantra of the Government is absent. For the Left, an active enterprise policy, especially towards the many small businesses and entrepreneurs, is one of the most important issues in the coming year, precisely because it is the new knowledge-based business that forms the basis for the freedom and well-being of the future, precisely because it is small businesses and entrepreneurs that best ensure housing and active and exciting communities throughout the country. Therefore, we need an active enterprise policy that understands the dynamics of the globalised economy, which knows what is required of us of flexibility, innovation and entrepreneurial culture. The Left today promotes proposals to set up a Founding and Innovation Commission, with the task of analysing Norway’s challenges in the global economy and proposing strategies and instruments for a stronger entrepreneurial culture and a more innovative and flexible knowledge and business policy. This is necessary if we are to cope with the transformation that increased globalisation will push us through in the coming years. The solution is not a stronger state governance and more state regulation. A real active industrial policy is to make it easier to start new businesses. A real active industrial policy is to give entrepreneurs and self-employed workers equal social rights to ‘common’ workers. Real active enterprise policies are also good general schemes for all. It is a tax system that stimulates investment and ownership in Norwegian enterprises and jobs and does not scare them out of the country. Active industrial policy is also concerned with agricultural policy and fisheries policy. The agricultural policy pursued in the previous period created new optimism in the industry and laid the foundations for those who will create a living in the enlarged agricultural policy. It is important that this policy continues, and I note with satisfaction that this is the case, despite rhetoric about the opposite of the Council of State and the agricultural figures of the Government of the United States. The left considers that agriculture should also have an important place in future Norway. If successful, the modernisation of Norwegian agriculture is required to continue. The farmer is a self-employed person with special administrative responsibility. Therefore, it is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given an important place in agriculture. The rural resource base needs to be exploited to a greater extent for the development of economic activity and for the settlement of people with no direct connection to primary industries. Local and regional authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. Agriculture must be given less designation, fewer forms and fewer and simpler guidelines. In the fisheries industry, too, uncertainty has been created in relation to the framework conditions on which long-term investment can be based. Three consultations have taken place in the last two months on fisheries policy - rural quotas, universal service and structural instruments. The left considers that the turnaround in fisheries policy objectives and an increasing level of detailed management in the use of instruments will help to reduce the value creation of the fishing industry overall. Good profitability is associated with securing a modern fleet. This is not contrary to a varied fleet. This is not the answer to unforeseeable framework conditions and detailed management, but predictability and holisticity, as elsewhere in business policy. I bring this up with the proposal that I referred to in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e183	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e186	Having 8 million members is rarely in a country with 4.5 million inhabitants. But our volunteer organizations actually have over 8.4 million members. Every single day, thousands of people in this country are active in building skills, strengthening democracy and making everyday life easier for people and doing many other important societal tasks. Through work in teams and organisations, work, public meetings, church activity, cultural events and sports events, very many people make a great voluntary effort. They make life richer for themselves and for others. Voluntary organisations often work across social divisions, and they are important cultural operators and community value intermediaries. On a national basis, the efforts of voluntary Norway constitute 160000 annual works. Norway is in second place if you look at how much of the work within the voluntary sector that is really done by volunteers – a little forged by the Swedishs. From the Center Party's side, we want to be between the leading champions of culture, sport and volunteering. Together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, we have made a government statement that clearly states that the work on facilitating the voluntary sector should be a priority area. That work is already in progress. In the last year’s budget, both the free-market and the free-market centres were strengthened. The Ministry of Knowledge has already given a signal that the important work done through study associations in the voluntary organisations will be given an economic boost in the coming year. The previous government used several of its budgets to reduce support for study associations and voluntary activities. This government will go the opposite way. We want to strengthen the voluntary sector. It hastens the 8.4 million members of the sector, and it hastens the many thousands who have noticed the positive activity of voluntary organisations. In addition to ensuring an economic foundation for voluntary work, it is important to ensure that voluntary workers are provided with just voluntary work. Today too much time is needed to complete applications for operating aid. Many of the applications for support for the projects must be designed in such a way that they fulfil the specific criteria, and this is, of course, time-consuming work. The centre party is busy reducing the administrative work of the organisations. This can be done e.g. through the creation of a voluntary register. In addition, it is important to ensure that organisational life develops freely and not under strong leadership. In addition to making life richer for others, people who are active in sport and volunteering give their own lives greater content. When the song choir holds a concert in the youth hall, it's a great culture for those who come and listen to it, but it's also great for those who are involved, an experience for those who share what they've been doing with others. When the Help Corps finds lost people in the mountains, it obviously has an invaluable value for those who are found, but it also has a value for those who find people, because they are involved and do something that matters to society. Voluntary work with children and young people helps to make the growth of many young people in this country richer. I think a lot of us have experienced that. We've had a rich growth because others have been willing to spend time just on getting a good crop. In most communities, voluntary organisations are important building blocks. There are building blocks that the Center Party and Government want to contribute to becoming more and stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e209	This majority government is delivering. We are on the right track, and this government dares to take hold of the difficult and controversial issues and then bring them to a clarification. Take, for example: the management plan for the northern regions, a difficult case with strong points of view that went in different directions. It was brought to a clarification. The previous government did not have the power to conclude. Any conclusion on their part would almost lead to a government crisis. Most of the north seas were thus opened up to petroleum activities, but within a very responsible environmental policy framework, and it also gave a new boost to our northern part of the country. We also need more power. We have a power deficit today. It makes us more dependent on imported coal power and nuclear power. That's why we're working too hard to improve the power supply. Gas power plants are now being built on Kårstø. Mongstad is being clarified. The forest and the Tent Goods are also being sailed. Unlike the previous government, the government is not holding its hands and is asking for the market to take care of this. We believe in a partnership, a relationship between governance, local forces and business. We're going to create a value chain for CO2 together with the companies. This could put Norway in the driver’s seat for future environmental technologies in the field of CO2. There is a great difference between developing technology and importing technological solutions from others. This government is addressing challenges to put new energy production on the agenda. We have a fund of SEK 20 billion for new renewable energy. This is a historic commitment. The economic framework has been more than doubled compared to today's level. We note that this will result in Norway becoming a leading nation in the development of renewable energy. The measures will contribute significantly to strengthening security of energy supply in Norway and will make an important contribution to achieving the Government’s overall objective of a more environmentally friendly and varied energy system. We also grasp the important thing it is to look at how the Energy Act works. We will carry out an evaluation of the Energy Act, including: The importance of the law for the balance of power, the electricity prices and the structure of the power industry shall be reviewed with a view to changes to ensure better use and use of existing production as well as the new production to enter the market. If there are bottlenecks in the Energy Act, we shall not be required to clean it up. All stones shall be turned in this way. We also deliver in another important area: an industrial journey, which is to look at the possibilities of transferring a gas pipeline from the West to the border region. It's an important industrial policy effort, and we hope to get it done. The previous government did not grasp such things at all. It seemed that they would not use the gas in Norway. We're systematically working on this to bring it to a solution. This work is well underway through Gassco. We've only worked for a year. We have three years left to complete the Soria Moria statement. Some of them are left, but we're going to do it. We're on it. We're working on multiple fronts. Just a year ago nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e230	The fight against terrorism remains one of the major international challenges, more than five years after 11 September 2001. We meet this fight every day, not least through our involvement in Afghanistan. How do we fight? How do we prevent recruitment to the ranks of terrorists? How do we remove support for terrorists and their minions? One theory is that it's about poverty. If we fight it, we're closer to the goal. It could be. In any case, the fight against poverty is important. But I would say that equally important is the fight for democracy, freedom and more open societies. It is from the point of view that the fight against extremism, fundamentalism and the glorification of violence is most effective in open and democratic societies, but also because both the fight against poverty, the rights of women, the conditions of children, freedom of expression and religion have the best conditions in which democracy is allowed to root. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy must work continuously to promote these values and to ensure that our behaviour in the international political arena is clear and predictable. Even in the face of real political reality it must be allowed to have some driving rules. Norway has an isolation policy towards Myanmar and the same to the authorities of Belarus, and that is because both countries behave in a way that we find unacceptable. But why these two countries? Do they stand out in a special way? To the extent of impotence, they are unfortunately in company with many more. It may be claimed that these countries are isolated from Norway because they are simple to isolate. The political and economic costs are low. Whether this is curative may be worth a debate of your own. A place where we interact in different ways with all the states of the world is the United Nations. Are we using our vote in the UN to introduce democratic states in relation to those who are responsible for a different and more totalitarian policy? For example, what does it add? Norway to vote in elections to the Security Council? Now I understand after reading the class struggle yesterday that the government does not want a debate on this topic. It appears at least to be very strange, for this should be an important topic for discussion. The same applies to trade policy and economic relations: who do we prefer as partners, and how do we proceed? Does it matter what our partner countries have for government, or are we indifferent? Are we acting like the United States? Are we talking loudly about freedom and democracy at home and, when appropriate, disregarding good values and principles if the prospect of a good business or political alliance is in sight? Now I don't hang out with the U.S. because they're the worst in the field – on the contrary – but because it's a good example that there can be a big difference between rhetoric and real politics. Do we preach freedom of speech to the extreme, or are we more concerned that states that are far away from value should not feel offended and offended? How much do we attach to ourselves to be politically correct and to be friends with everyone? The perception we're left with after the caricature battle in winter is that it was very important for the Norwegian authorities to distance themselves from the more special elements that pressed these caricatures, without we simultaneously taking up the lack of tolerance and freedom of expression that are in the Arab world. Is the nation of Norway so that we deserve to be threatened as people and experience our embassies being attacked, as we experienced in the caricature struggle? Of course not. And without being superior and demeaning, it must be allowed to emphasize that we believe our society with all sorts of opinions and opinions is far preferable to the states and societies that were the hardest in the criticism of Norway and Denmark. Foreign policy can not only be about maintaining good relations. It must also be allowed to be clear on what we think is right, an attempt at value transfer, a defense of individual rights. Do we have a foreign policy and development policy that is conducive to democracy? Do we reward democracies, or does it not matter? Do we encourage multi-party rule and religious tolerance, or do we meet the great value challenges behind honorary words as dialogue and behind closed doors in the United Nations system? I call for a more comprehensive foreign and development policy, a policy that is more consistent, that signals more values and what we expect. So, of course, in a difficult world, there are rarely ideal solutions, which is just good, or something that is just bad. But we need to be clear in our message at home and out and clear on when we make the necessary compromises. This will make it easier to hold a debate on where the compromises should be, and not least lead to the clear objective of promoting democracy and human rights. Maybe we can also manage to establish standards that other nations see fit to copy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e247	The Christian People's Party believes that municipalities are the main provider of basic welfare services in Norway. Municipalities are responsible for good child rearing conditions, kindergarten with room for everyone who wants it, a primary school of quality, a worthy care for the elderly and a wide range of cultural services. That is why we want to give the municipalities good framework conditions. It's hard to say where the boundary goes for a good local economy. But we've seen that expenditure is increasing a lot in the municipal sector, despite the fact that we have now for many years in a row increased transfers to the municipalities. This Christian People's Party wants to take seriously, and we were pleased with the increased funds for the municipalities in 2006. The government has created great expectations in Kommune-Norway, but I'm afraid they do not meet the expectations in the continuation. The Soria Moria Declaration states that during the ageing period, the revenues of municipalities will be significantly strengthened by means of an obliging escalation plan. We've heard a lot of boast about this, but we haven't seen this plan. It is said, more modestly, that the government is thus adding to a still high level of the income of the municipal sector in 2007. The Christian People's Party will encourage the Government to keep the promise of binding escalation plan, and not lose focus on the municipal bet in the coming year. Many municipalities are struggling financially, despite increased transfers to municipalities. Unfortunately, it's not that you can fill all the pool and add many teachers. No, in many municipalities there are still unwanted cuts in important services. We have to avoid getting into that situation over and over again. In plain text it means that there must be consistency between the tasks to be performed by municipalities and the growth they will receive in the free resources. If the municipalities are to cope with high-quality child care with low prices, increased teacher density and a good and free primary school, a worthy care for the elderly, offensive business development and a rich cultural life, yes, growth must be consistent with this. Increased frameworks for municipalities should mean that municipalities are given greater financial space and freedom to decide on their own bets. There will be no greater freedom of action if the Government's ambitions about what the money should cover are too high. The money can only be used once. We believe in local democracy, that those who wear the shoe know where it prints. That means we trust local people. But they must have a room for action. Municipalities have different needs, and they need funds to do their own priorities. On White Island in Rogaland, they need a new activity center for their inhabitants. In the municipality of Sandne, which has rounded 60,000 inhabitants, they must invest heavily in new schools. In Helmeland, there is a desire to invest more in culture. And in Karmøy, they focus on industrial development and jobs to replace those that disappear with the phasing-out of Søderberg plants at Hydro's aluminium factory. These are examples of our municipalities being different. We know that in many municipalities there is a great deal of tension associated with tomorrow and the state budget. Will the increase in free resources be as announced in the spring's municipal proposal? Or can the municipalities risk that the increase in free resources is well on the way to being eaten up by increased expenditure on health pay schemes, wage increases and NAV reform? Will there be money left for textbooks, more teachers, new positions in care, and not least for their own priorities? The Christian People's Party opens up to increase the appropriations for the municipalities in addition to what the Government announced in the municipal bill. The majority has decided that primary school should be free of charge. This means that there will be room for trips, excursions and cultural activities on the school budgets. It's often where it's cut when there's too little money. The Christian People's Party wants us to bet on children, on good growing-up conditions, on quality in school and on worthy care for the elderly. That means we have to bet on the municipalities. It is good that the Government has high ambitions in terms of community and welfare in the municipalities. Now it remains to be seen whether the Government is able to reconcile the level of ambition with the costs. Yes, it would have been great if there was money around the city and district municipalities for the maintenance set run at municipal churches and schools and for the municipality's own development project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e276	At first, I suppose the representative of Tørresdal should admit that a red-green government was needed to provide the municipalities with a safe financial framework, and that the Christian People's Party actually put in a government like the hungry-fed municipalities. Then I have a question to the representative about something completely different. Today's news: 07.30 this morning, the Development Minister went out and demanded of the United Nations that women-settled measures, reproductive health, sexual training, prevention, etc. be taken. This was when the leader of the Christian People's Party had no sense of it at all, and thought it would hinder the assistance. Now it's like a thousand-year target. 6 is to combat AIDS and other fatal diseases. Is it not the case that, in order to combat HIV/AIDS, prevention training, sexual information, is required for women-satted measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e283	First of all, the Christian People's Party is very pleased with all the crowns of the municipalities, regardless of which government had to grant them. What's important is that the municipalities get their money. In the case of the thousand-year targets set by the UN, the Christian People's Party is completely behind them. Then we'll have to discuss how we can best fight HIV/AIDS. Under former development minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson, the Christian People's Party has been very concerned with women, women's health, prevention and HIV/AIDS control.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e290	Often the Christian People's Party uses to be the party that strongly stands behind and tries to bring forward the weak groups – at least you try to give the impression of it. If we are to talk about a weak group that really has bad things in Norwegian society, it's just the immigrant women, the immigrant girls -- many of them -- who today, unfortunately, in 2006, are at risk of being coerced, are at risk of being sexually mutilated, are at risk of the worst types of oppression you can imagine, precisely because you come from cultures where the understanding of equality and equality that we have in Norwegian society is not present. My question to the Christian People's Party is: What will the Christian People's Party do, contribute concretely, to combat the oppression that takes place in the immigrant communities? And then I mean stronger instruments than information campaigns, emergency phones and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e297	The President must be reminded of what is in the Rules of Procedure, both this line and the previous one, that the lines must be related to what has been said in the preamble.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e301	I would like to agree with the representative, Amundsen, that we need to re-examine what kind of measures are needed to combat rape, sexual mutilation, and that guarantee the rights of all women in Norway, including our immigrant women. We need an even stronger focus, and we have a debate going on these days on what are the best instruments. The focus must be on strengthening the rights, strengthening the lives of women living in Norway and not restricting immigration. It's hard to find the right grips. We have a discussion going on now, and we are waiting to see what the Government is proposing as a new action plan in this important fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e306	I promise to stick to what was said in the post. But the roads of politicians are often unanswered, it is not easy to follow them. It's not more than two years since Bjørg Tørresdal defended a government that made obvious and strong cuts in the municipal sector. Now she's worried, she's very worried, and not only that, she's also afraid of the development of the local economy. If we take the increase given to the local government sector in 2006, the number of billions in it, and also take on the municipal proposition that the Stortinget dealt with in ours, with a relatively strong increase also to the local government sector, and assume that it will be followed up in the budget tomorrow – let's imagine that this possibility – is not a reason to say that this is to give the local government a relatively strong growth, so that the local government sector will be able to solve the tasks that Bjørg Tørsdal is setting up from the interlocutory?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e311	Now it is true that before the summer, like the Christian People's Party, the local government said that it is good with increased income for the municipalities, with an increase of between NOK 2 and 2.5 billion, as announced in the municipal bill. But it was said from the KS, and we need to pay attention to that, that it won't be money for a maintenance kit. In addition, during the autumn, we have been informed that there is a health insurance scheme or increased expenditure on health insurance schemes for municipalities. That means that there is not so much money to spend on the municipalities if this is not compensated, and that is the concern I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e316	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e319	This year’s census confirms that the country has finally received a powerful and focused government, a government that believes in values such as justice and community, a government that believes that Norway is the society of opportunity. We are privileged in Norway, we have high social capital and are one of the world's best welfare societies. We have long democratic traditions, a high level of education, and our goal should be to give all people in the country the opportunity to ‘develop their abilities and live good and meaningful lives’, as our Prime Minister says. In a few days, on October 17, the International Day of Poverty is the world. Last year the country got a new Stoltenberg government on this day. I don't think it was random. Both the languages of the throne and the Soria Moria Declaration testify to the political will and good ambitions of abolishing public poverty, which unfortunately grows in Norway. It is incomprehensible that a country such as Norway, like everyone else, envys the rich welfare, has homeless, unemployed minorities, disabled people who are not included in the labour market, and young people who have drug problems. The big cities in particular have got these negative phenomena. I am therefore pleased to note that the Government is warning an action plan against poverty and an action plan for inclusion. It is shown that one finally dares to take big city policies seriously and acknowledges that cities actually have special challenges. The capital of the country has become an exciting and multicultural city. This is where the assumption for the inclusion of minorities has the greatest potential. We know that they are banned on the labour market, on the housing market, and that the differences in living conditions between the minority and the majority are unfair. I am optimistic, and I believe in successful integration when the Government promotes concrete policies. But multicultural society also challenges us on fundamental human rights and value issues. Solidarity and freedom are uncompromising values in Norway, for which we must protect strongly. And that should apply to everyone, regardless of religious or social background. We've been told about young people being deprived of the right to make their own choices, about marriages, honours, crisis centres in the cities filled with minority women, children disappearing from school, domestic violence, women fleeing from their own homes, who have to change their identity and fear of their own lives. We cannot fail these young people and women. They need support and care. I hope, therefore, that the Government will come up with effective and accurate measures to combat children and women being exposed to vicious uncultures and brutal abuses. In cities, fighting crime has also become a real challenge. Growing prostitution, getting arms is easy, and reprimand crime are examples of factors that make many unfortunately not feel safe. We have a tradition in Norway to be very good at social protection in the world's richest welfare society. Let's also be good at civil security. The Trontal illustrates that the Government is pursuing a resolute policy in the fight against crime. The situation of the victims should be strengthened, and there is a desire to do something about the prisons and the settlement queues. That's promising. I have to say I'm impressed that you come here with concrete things you want to change. There will be very positive changes for the urban scene in the country. It is good that cities can now have the place they deserve in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e332	The country is in a period of strong economic growth, with low and declining unemployment and good times both for the private and public sectors. This, of course, is very positive for society, and the growth of the economy makes the job easier for the government of Stoltenberg than it was for the previous government at the beginning of the last growing-up period. There is no doubt that this government is financially coming to the table and covered. I was therefore very surprised that the Prime Minister used the development of the Norwegian economy to boast of the efforts of the dwindling Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen. Stoltenberg concluded that the value creation has never been greater and employment higher than when Eriksen was Minister of Industry in Norway. This is quite syllable rhetoric. Developments in growth and employment in the last year are not the profits of the Minister of Industry. Nor is it the merit of the Stoltenberg government. The government has been too short to have a particular influence on the economy, and it continued in practice the economic policy of the previous government. Stoltenberg created, on the contrary, a picture of a government that in its business policy has little to boast about. History shows that good times can be quickly replaced by bad times, both in business and in society. Unfortunately, there are also many examples of doing things in good times, making the downturn even more severe when the economy turns around. The government has chosen a short-term perspective to deliver on comprehensive and unrealistic election promises. The right considers that the focus now needs to be on investing for the future. We know that baking the cake bigger over time also gives a larger pie piece to everyone. The right considers that investment in research and education, lower taxes and better framework conditions, road and infrastructure and the improvement of the labour force situation should be the main project of the Government. Such a strategy will build a society in the future with safe jobs and sound welfare services for those who need it. Instead of billions of cuts in research and billions in increased taxes in the workplace, the government should do the opposite and invest in the welfare of the future. The majority government has created uncertainty and chaos in areas of industrial policy that should be characterised by stability and predictability. This makes Norway a less attractive country to operate from. The ownership debate internally in the government parties and the range of more or less serious games and demands, and threats of abuse of state ownership in situations where governance and management in companies like Telenor, Statoil, Hydro, Cermaq and SAS Braathens do things that do not please the red-green magnification representatives, were initially relatively comical. The seriousness turned out, however, when the government put the entire Statoil leadership at risk through its hopeless management of the board of directors' appointment. The majority government, which claimed that there would be less chaos and more predictability, appears on a case-by-case basis with unclear management and winging. The impression is that the College of Government does not have internal control and that management is relatively weak. The right to a company car rental order, as instructed by LO, may not have been a serious matter. But the government's winging and lifting break in an area where sick pay is serious, and it creates uncertainty. In particular, a government, even a majority government, will present a government budget tomorrow where DKK 2.5 billion is not finally aged, but depends on negotiations with the social partners beyond the harvest. We also see that some industries are struggling with unpredictable political conditions. In the fisheries industry, the Government has stopped abruptly from developing a structure which was supported by the industry and which contributed to the safety and profitability of many coastal enterprises. New fishing vessels have hardly been contracted since the introduction of the structural freeze last autumn. And the structural committee that the Government appointed with quite a considerable professional and political impact has made proposals that about the entire fishing industry is now coming up against. In one year, the fishing industry has shifted from focus on growth and profitability to focus on policy problems and regulation. It's a development in the wrong direction. In the field of competition, the Government has created uncertainties in several fields. It is obvious that the flirt of buying up SAS Braathens and unclear answers regarding the possible reintroduction of anti-competitive award credits schemes to next year has led to a risk that smaller operators and air passengers will suffer. For example, in the last 100 days the shares of the Norwegian company fell by almost 20 p.m., while the shares of SAS Braathens have increased by 15 p.m. We should not ignore the contribution made by the Government to the purchase of SAS Braathens and the fact that the market is now expecting a development that is out of line with competition in Norway. It is also a fact that we are moving towards a stronger monopoly of the food sector. The private dairy operators wear and experience poorer and unpredictable framework conditions from the Government. The government is overrun by the Competition Authority in cases where cooperative operators want dominant positions at the expense of competitors and consumers. We saw this in the Prior/Norgården purchase, and we also see it in today's overrun in the Gilde/Prior case. The right considers that in good times resources should be used to invest so that good times continue as far as possible. We will provide business with better and more predictable framework conditions, so that we get safe and profitable jobs and an even more robust welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e358	There are many of us who have been to the cinema in the fall and got a new cinema experience. Many of us have seen the movie Al Gore made, "The Uncomfortable Truth". Some of us were also so lucky that we heard Al Gore talk after the first screening of the film in Norway. When he got the question from the room about what he thought Norway should do to follow up the challenges he describes in his film, he answered quite briefly: Follow up on all the proposals that come in the report to Jørgen Randers, who has led the Low-Emission Committee in Norway. That sample presented its report yesterday. I think there is reason to commend former Environment Minister Knut Arild Hareide for putting the sample down – because it was exciting reading we got yesterday from Jørgen Randers. The committee’s task was to show how Norway can reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by two thirds by 2050, i.e. no simple task. Then it is all the more encouraging that the main conclusion of the report is that this is necessary, it is feasible, and – perhaps the most joyful – it is not impossible to cost. These measures have been highlighted in the report to be few and large, based on relatively well-known technology. They shall be politically feasible, they shall contribute to international technology development and shall be cost-effective and robust. In addition, the sample has been courageous and said that there are eleven measures that it believes the Government should start already now, during this major period. Then it is good to represent a government that has eight of the measures in the Soria Moria Declaration, and is fully implementing several of them. Today – one day after the Low Emissions Committee gave its opinion – the Minister of Oil and Energy put forward our commitment to new renewable energy, in particular the production aid for wind power, bioenergy and small energy. Many such projects will be profitable under this aid scheme. I recorded in the debate today in a line change that not all representatives from the opposition share this view. Then it is good to know that neither Kvassheim, Brende nor Sponheim are the actors in the wind power market, but that they are going to come up with the fasit that this is good enough. Then it was also good to get a message from NRK Rogaland today that Light Energy says they are now ready to invest in wind power. The second full-time measure is CO2 clean-up. It is one of the measures that is also justified by the Low Emissions Committee as an important Norwegian contribution to technology development. If we are able to do that, we will make a decisive contribution to reducing global CO2 emissions. My opinion is that as a large oil and gas nation, we have an international responsibility to do just that. A third of the measures identified by the Low Emissions Committee is the need to increase investment in buildings and households. Then it is also good to know that we have already adopted a support mechanism to make it easier for people to move from heating with panel furnaces to heating based on more environmentally friendly bioenergy and the use of heat pumps, and that building regulations have already been consulted that make much more stringent energy requirements for things that happen in the future. The representative, Siv Jensen, has made a proposal in the Chamber today to set up a state-owned company to buy CO2. It is not necessarily a bad idea, but it is surprising that it is the Progress Party that promotes such a proposal and believes that the state should spend so much money to reduce climate change emissions. The Progress Party voted against the Kyoto agreement as late as 2002, and the Progress Party Programme for the current period will still not see any correlation between climate emissions and anthropogenic activities. On the other hand, the Progress Party writes that ‘avoid using scarce resources to implement a number of symbolic measures against CO2 emissions’. Then it is good to see that this is a problem that the Low Emissions Committee also addresses. It says that if it is to be profitable, not impossible – or furiously cheap, as Jørgen Randers himself said – to reduce emissions, it requires early action. The longer we wait to initiate measures, the more expensive it will be to reduce CO2 emissions. I think it'll be interesting in the follow-up. We have new things that are going to happen. We work with sectorial climate action plans to reduce emissions. The first Kyoto period shall be set at a new level of allowances. There are many measures that are needed to achieve those objectives, and I think we are on the right track to achieve them already.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e396	It's just a spinning opposition that itself cracks in every direction, acting as we've heard in several posts today. Only a swirled opposition can be able to present it as if we have a damage-reduction government that is continuing to wing. Only a swirled opposition can cause the government to break promises and not deliver. This is wishful thinking from the opposition. A red-green government has already delivered in a number of areas that parts of the Bondevik administration probably also wanted to deliver on, but they simply did not get it. Many have used the words before me, but the scale of a good society is how we take care of the weakest. The market never settles for those who need it the most, as the right parties think. Taxes for the richest don't settle for those who need it the most. That's this idea that the voters gave us right in. It is this attitude towards the development of society that they gave us support to: more well-being, better Community solutions – and simply that the rich are rich enough. It was not the general distress in Norway that caused the voters to show the Right and Christian People's Party out of government offices. We have a solid economy, most of us are good and saturated. But that's exactly why we have the opportunity to raise the minority, not via the market and private solutions, but through the community. That is why we can afford more care and health throughout the country. Good municipalities and good hospitals are the supports for people to feel that they have a safe day. Henning Wittnes has written it in one of his texts: 'everybody gets better when everyone gets better'. Most people think so. People realize that they can't have more money for everything at any time, but they've asked us for a new course, for more care and a warmer society. We've started that change of course. Too many people in Norway are paralyzed by their drug problems — individuals and whole families. It's the responsibility of the community. The tranquillity has been a neglected area. The tranquillity has been a neglected area. The government is concerned that people should have their dignity, no matter what problems they face. Already in its first budget, the government put in more than 90 million. kr to the ruby area. It's announced a drug plan, and we feel confident that the government will follow up the drug field. One cannot help but wonder about the black paint of the hospital; that it can be produced in the media as if there has never been such a small amount of money. We've never spent more money. From 2002 to 2005, the total use of resources in specialist health has increased by DKK 15 billion. There has been a significant increase in the number of annual works. Never been treated again. No country spends more of its total resources on hospitals. But it should be said that it is a costly and demanding country to run hospitals in, and few things involve people more than hospitals. It is a justice requirement of the population that they should be close to hospitals wherever they live and regardless of their financial ability. Then most understand that all hospitals cannot operate with everything, that if the serious disease affects, there are specialists at other hospitals in the country. Old people are an unused resource in society. It's not like all old people need care. Most people actually do well. But all people need more care — including the old ones. We can't afford people out of solitude, but we can facilitate that as much as possible has an offer of a dignified life also outside the house's four walls. We can ensure that the day you need both care and care is clear. We will come back to that when we deal with the care notification. The red-green government has delivered to make it possible. We have started the job to get more warm and helpful hands in care and care. The future should be safer for users and easier for all those to do the jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e424	This summer there has been a strong focus on Norwegian roads, or perhaps a strong focus on missing roads is a better expression. Why have we said that we have roads there only 5 pst. has a satisfactory standard? Many people wonder why it has become this way in Norway when we see that many countries around us with a much worse economic backbone have a much higher standard on their roads. The delays in maintenance on our roads pass 45 million at these times. kr. Through the National Transport Plan, the Progress Party has shown its willingness to do what is going on in maintenance, where we have wanted to allocate 1.2 billion more a year, and we have significantly greater appropriations for investment as well. This summer, a number of representatives from all parties have been out and signaled that a lift is to be made. The right has wanted to set up an infrastructure fund, the centre party has both wanted to set up infrastructure funds and to use oil money. The Workers’ Party’s representative in the Transport and Communications Committee, Rudihagen, has even supported the Progress Party and said that it is not inflationary to spend and invest money on roads. Why, then, is it that we do not get action when we are to be granted? Well, that's because you operate with a rule of action. I think that's very interesting, because when the rule of action was adopted in its time, there were three criteria underlying the use of returns from the oil fund. One was actually lower taxes and taxes. The second was measures for a better infrastructure, and the third was to invest in new knowledge through research and development. Today we can see that we have a fund for research of 75 billion dollars. We have also received a fund of SEK 20 billion for environmentally friendly energy – but unfortunately, in terms of road and infrastructure, there has been a lack. Therefore, it is interesting to note what Stoltenberg said at the time the rule of action was adopted. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The enhanced space for action must therefore be used in a way that strengthens the growth capacity of the economy. Lower taxes on labour, measures for improved infrastructure and measures to bring about new knowledge are important’» [[...]] So we haven't done that. That is why the Progress Party today proposes to set up an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion. It will fulfil all these prerequisites underpinning the introduction of the rule of action. Then you could get investment not only on the road, as it is in the proposal, but also on rail and collective actions, including bus-based public transport. We would have taken care of what Stortinget has been talking about for years: getting broadband for the whole country. A return on such a fund would amount to NOK 10–11 billion. Then we have shown our willingness to give the promise that is needed to achieve an efficient and forward-looking infrastructure in this country, so that we do not fall further away from the countries to which we are going to compare. Of course, I'm not waiting to have a majority for this proposal either, and I think that's very sad. We see that the Government – and that should be said – delivers some of what is going on in maintenance. But what it does is it uses the agreement in the national transport plan, of which the Progress Party was part. And it was said there that it agreed to spend 22 billion kroner over 10 years mainly on investment and racial protection. What we're seeing now is that this government is spending more and more money on the maintenance side. This means that all the good projects contained in the national transport plan are linked to the additional appropriations entered in the national transport plan by the Progress Party and are being pushed forward in time and are becoming more expensive. That's why I think it's sad that we're not going to be able to agree on and get the promise that all the parties have been talking about for a whole year. The Council of State has called for a national political debate. She's got it. We have had it continuously for six months, but unfortunately it does not produce results. Then I make a reservation that tomorrow's budget may contain 4 billion kroner. But of course that remains to be seen. I therefore support the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e444	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e447	Equality, as an idea, has great support in Norwegian society, but the figures tell us that there is a long way between ideal and reality. Why, for example, does this happen? very little with the proportion of women in local policy despite the fact that everyone is too much for gender equality? According to the UN, Norway is the most equal country in the world, and of course we should be proud of that. We have a proud story. However, the 2005 Gender Equality Survey shows that the situation on the gender equality front here at home has been at rest in recent years. There are still major inequalities between women and men in too many areas of society. There are considerable differences in power and influence in countries, in municipalities, in businesses, in the home, in research and education and in the labour market in general. There is no doubt that greater efforts are needed to create a society where women and men have the same real rights, duties and opportunities. The Soria Moria Declaration is very clear that equality is an important and unifying premise for our policies in all areas of society. Storing and government shall determine, manage and manage Community resources for the common good of society. That is why it is very good that we have now received a government that really prioritises doing more in the gender equality field, not least after the previous government did not deliver, but rather took the equality back several steps and was a disaster in many areas. We know that almost as many women as men are active today. But 44 pst. of women working part-time against only 13 pst. of the men. We know that women still earn less than men in the same type of work. This is a challenge and something the Government is taking seriously. The government is not only concerned with gender equality but also with minorities and discriminated against groups. We know that e.g. gay and lesbian do not have the same rights as heterofiles. Minorities with a migrant background are discriminated against in the housing and labour markets, and we know that minor asylum seekers do not have the same rights as other children. The examples are many, and that tells us that we still have a lot of important equality struggles to fight again. I am pleased that the Government is clear and clear that discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians will cease. In a single year, this government has done more in this field than it has done in the last ten years. And I'm proud of that. We've cleared up the steped adoption legislation so that gays and lesbians are not discriminated against in relation to heterofiles. We give the opportunity to share the parental leave. We increased the appropriations in the budget for this year by 2 million. kr. We've captured hate crime, and the Minister of Justice is now doing a really good job in that field. The Minister of Culture ensured that for the first time in history, the film and culture festival ‘Skeive Days’ received state aid. And not least, we are doing well with the work of common marriage law. Today's marriage law must be seen in relation to the principle of non-discrimination, a fundamental principle of human rights. Today’s legislation is a legal discrimination which cannot be well defended on the basis of the fundamental principle of the UN Declaration of Human Rights that all people are born free and with the same human dignity and rights. The Partnership Act was a milestone in its time, but it does not grant gay couples equal rights to heterofiles. It represents a B faction. That discrimination must be eliminated by amending the marriage law. But what is perhaps most important by changing the marriage law, in my opinion, is the consideration of the rights of the many children who live with parents of the same sex. That, for example: The Christian People's Party does not see that today's marriage law primarily discriminates against children and deprives some of the legal rights of other children, and for that reason it is important to change the law, astonishes me. The representative Højbrätten said in his post that the family is the most important foundation we have. It's through the family society to be built, and the family is our main starting point. I want the Christian People's Party to start thinking that this should apply to all kinds of families, not just the classic core family, which the Christian People's Party values so highly. The nuclear family is not the only one, and soon maybe not the most common form of life we have. In my opinion, the Christian People's Party undermines the entire family concept by discriminating the way people choose to live, not least by refusing children the right of two parents. Studies show that a clear majority of Norwegians actually want homosexuals to have the opportunity to marry. The government is changing the law in line with people's attitudes. We have major challenges in the field of equality between sex and groups, and it is good to have a government that really prioritises this work, not only in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, but also in foreign policy, cultural policy and justice policy. It's good we have a government that now has the ability to let equality be an overall goal and principle in all fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e482	This government wants to use the whole country. We will build Norway with living communities, good welfare services, attractive jobs and good infrastructure. Today's debate calls for a change of course from the Government. Many good examples of course change are all given. The whole political focus has changed with the government shift. In particular, rural development in the whole country, the local economy, with emphasis on local welfare and in the focus on work for all, is reflected in the regional policy. Here today's government is fundamentally different from the previous one. We see the individual in the center. A well-developed transport network is a fundamental requirement for us to be able to have buseting, industrial development and well-being throughout the country. The development and operation of the transport network is important to reduce distance costs and to increase value creation. In order to strengthen competitiveness, we need to contribute to the creation of viable construction and labour regions. Good relations solutions are crucial to be closed with this. The economy of Norway has high transport costs compared to most other countries, and long distances are particularly costly for rural enterprises. The government is pursuing a policy to reduce distance costs. Transport is an important asset for those who live in our country, whether we run our own car or travel collectively. People should be safe and efficient between housing and work. Our kids are going to have a safe school road. The transport infrastructure must be designed for those with disabilities, for young children’s parents with baby carriages and for older people such as the elderly. depends on a walker to get there. Increased security shall always be a priority and shall be incorporated into all planning, deployment, operation and maintenance of the transport network. We have to take inwards that transportation also has environmental sites that are not just good. The government attaches great importance to limiting the harmful effects of transport on the environment. Part of the emission reduction measures must be implemented at national level, including: by using charges that punish those who have an environmentally harmful behaviour and that reward those who act in a way that is positive to the environment. The government is actively developing environmentally friendly means of transport. This happens among others. by replacing old rickshaw ferries with gas ferries. The government supports the development of alternative fuels such as biofuels and hydrogen in the transport sector. There are good environmental policies, and there are forward-looking policies to bring about a new robust business. Increased efforts on collective transport solutions both for humans and goods can help reduce environmental problems. The government wants more of the freight transport to be done on the railways. We will therefore improve the conditions for the railway etc. with additional permissions for the development of freight terminals, double tracks and crossing tracks. It is important that measures are implemented in areas of environmental and transport problems which actually speed up the progress of people and goods. In and around the largest cities, collective provision must therefore be so good that more people can travel together. In the districts, the government wants to provide more needs-adapted collective solutions. The most important way to address the transport challenges facing people and businesses in the districts is to increase the roadways. Aviation is also a central part of the transport network and is one of the most important collective services, not least in a country such as Norway with large distances. Both the short-distance network and the main route network are an important part of the transport supply. We will maintain today's airport structure and are concerned that we will be able to maintain the cross-subsidisation arrangements for the Ulf airports in the future as well. The government wants to bet more on traffic. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government proposed to increase the investment both by road and by rail by DKK 1 billion compared to the proposal of the Government of Bondevik II in the National Transport Plan. It is in line with the decision on the planning frameworks of the national transport plan that the majority of the Stortingen did and that the former government parties called overburden and could not be involved in. The government is already launching the course change from the Bondevik II government’s policy in the additionalproposal to the State budget and continuing in the revised national budget 2006. More than 800 million. kr has been transported in 2006. It is important to invest so that we have a modern and safe transport system. The land is to be built on. At the same time, we must take care of the infrastructure we all have. This government will reverse developments with increasing delays in maintenance. It applies to both road and rail networks. We have to stop the decay. Norway is a country with enormous resources and many good qualities we are proud of. There is still a great potential to make better use of these resources. The government will increase the investment in the transport sector to create a transport system that will meet the challenges in the future and that will contribute to optimism and innovation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e520	Let me first thank the Council of State for an excellent article, an article that I think everyone can put behind in relation to the objective. But what's so regrettable is that at the speed this government has in terms of granting resources to achieve these goals, neither I nor the Council of State, I think, will experience getting the infrastructure that is necessary on the road, rail or other areas. The Councils of State were also involved in the agreement in the national transport plan. When the agreement was concluded, there were 22 billion kroner extra distributed equally on the road and rail. But what the Council of State might easily forget is that this agreement also states that these funds should go towards investment, i.e. new projects. And the projects are also read and adopted in that agreement. So my question is, now that the government is turning all these funds into maintenance, what about these projects that are planned, adopted and perhaps also being prepared?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e529	Now Sandberg pronounces himself as if the budget had been presented. It is not. I have a warning and I stand by the fact that we have to take care of the existing road and rail network. It's a bad household to let the fall down even if a person builds something new. We are a plural government, we are actionable, and we need to ensure good maintenance and new investment. The answer to the question to Sandberg he must wait until tomorrow, for that is when he will see what the result is. But, of course, during this four-year period, we will take care of the agreement that is in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e534	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good report. We'll be glad to see if the promises are fulfilled. But I'm a little worried. A pedigree investigation should have been submitted on 1 October. The road authorities themselves have said that they are looking forward to the debate that will take place from 1 October until Christmas. The investigation has not arrived. It's only a few days in overtime, but I have a suspicion that it might be related to the frame getting a little tighter than they had planned, so they have to wait to put it forward after the budget has arrived. Enough about that. Governments have been in South Africa this summer and have opened an OPS project, the Feda project, which was completed 16 months earlier than planned. It is probably an example that the OPS solution is a good solution. This has in some ways been overtaken by the Council of State by saying that we are not going to have new measures. So here I have an excellent magazine for the Railway Federation, where the Council of State says that what she's most proud of is that she got to stop the privatisation and the competitive outsourcing of the railway. The same magazine says that the Gjøvik Railway, which is exposed to competition, has had a traffic growth of 8 p.m. in the first three months. Isn't the Council of State afraid that putting a lid on all competition will stop the possibility of developing Norwegian transport in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e545	Firstly, I have to make it clear that a large part of the railway system's enterprises are exposed to competition and will be exposed to competition. The operation of the passenger service on trains will not be subject to competition. It is symptomatic to the extent that it is an under-use of NSB that also drives Gjøvikbana. I don't think that's gonna give us any worse services. The NSB operates well, and they must operate even better and even more efficiently in the future. When this is the case, it is presented on Monday, so there is not so much postponement on it. What is the intention of the Road Directorate and the other sectors to wait a week, they are asked by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e552	It is an offensive Minister of Transport who is going to build the country with a new course, but in the post that was held, I did not discover much of the new course. In my view, it was a safe and good continuation of the previous government's transport policy, with a few small shades. There have been an incredible number of budgetary leakages managed by the Government of Goods in the context of the budget, as well as in the case of transport. So I'm not sure if we have so many goodies left to wait until tomorrow. But I'm very excited about one thing that hasn't been mentioned at all, and that's a main bet bit in the Soria Moria statement, and that was the new course. OPS was to go away and we were to receive project funding. Now I'm very excited if we'll get a news tomorrow about project financing. In that case, it will receive the support of the Christian People's Party. I hope the Council of State can lighten the lid for us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e561	Yes, in the budget tomorrow, there will be a mention of project funding. What's in that report, I'm sure the representative will have to wait until tomorrow. Otherwise he would not listen carefully enough to my post if he did not find the course changes. Firstly, it is a price change to increase the budget as the Government has done in both the supplementary and revised national budgets. Secondly, it is a major change of course to focus more on maintenance, which has been unlikely to be neglected, where the previous government cut 200 million. kr in the last year's budget, and where we now hope to reverse that trend. Then we will have to wait until tomorrow to see if there will be a change in course that will show again – I believe so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e568	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e571	Energy and the environment are becoming this great question of the century. We are in a situation where two billion people in the world do not have access to electricity, and they need access to electricity if they are to experience development. At the same time, we know that this also means that energy consumption in the world will increase by 40-50 pst. by 2030. It states the International Energy Agency in its latest report that came this summer. Then there is the big question: how are we going to provide energy for all those who need energy, while at the same time managing to control the environmental consequences of this – how do we use more energy and emit less greenhouse gases? It's going to be this great question of the century. Norway also has a responsibility here. We, as a large energy supplier, have put ourselves in the situation, as it emerged at Dagsrevyen this evening, that because we are now importing coal power from Europe, we emit more CO2 this year than 200,000 cars do, because we choose coal power imports instead of gas power. It's important that we find a national solution for how to deal with the gas. 99 pst. Of the gas we export, just 1 pst. we use in Norway. We have to find solutions. The signals that have come from the Government have been very unclear so far. It's very hard to understand what's going on here with the parallel development of cleaning technology. So far, this has resulted in the fact that there has been a de facto stop in the development of new gas power plants. Well, it is so important that Norway also takes responsibility for new and renewable energy sources, and there I had great expectations for the Minister of Oil and Energy and for the Government. When the government scrapped these green certificates in the negotiations with Sweden in winter, the government said that it would come up with at least an equally good system. The Environment Minister said in the change of lines after his post where I asked questions, that this was a historic day, and the people were cheering. It's probably a historic day, because I haven't experienced that the environmental movement and those that build energy have been so united. They have said that the system that the Government has put in place today to give Norway more renewable energy does not meet its objectives. I have to say that when the government went out and said that you would get a system that was at least as good as the green certificates, I believed in the government. I did it. But now we've got a new breach of promise from the breakup government. For what is the support that has been given to small hydroelectric power plants that are potters and that can be started, and that becomes 10 TWh, after what one of Norway's leading researchers says to today's business today? 10 TWh – a quarter of the Norwegian consumer spends the year on electricity is potable. They get 4 cents, so one third of what you would have gotten with the green certificates. That's not at all as good. Wind power gets 8 cents, would get twice if you went for the green certificates. Bioenergy gets 10 cents, would get 15 cents and 20 cents with the green certificates. Similar projects in Sweden and Finland will receive 30 øre in support. So why would the people then rejoice over this in the middle of a difficult power situation, I can't understand. I believe that here the Government is raising its voice by weak arguments. I understand that the Minister for the Environment is doing this, because it is obvious that there are some in the Government who have overrun her and the Minister for Oil and Energy in this matter. I am terribly disappointed, because it means that many good renewable projects that could have prevented a future power crisis are now being scrapped. It's not just something I'm saying. The wind power association has said that many wind power projects are getting the hook on the door today. It's not a historic day of joy, it's going into the series of energy policy decisions that this government has taken, and that brings us closer to a power crisis: first the scrapping of green certificates, with a worse system as an alternative, the second the uncertainty of gas power plants, so that you really approach the power crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e586	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e589	I would first like to commend the representative Mr. Børge Brende for a visionary and overall approach to the whole energy issue. But at the same time, I think it is surprising that he chooses such an offensive and ongoing opposition role, since he himself put in a government that did little or nothing with the energy supply. The representative Burnde was against the expansion of Upper Otta. He was also against the expansion of the Hatteberg River. The government he was in, started building plants for the continuation of gas from the Worm Lange and said yes to Sunndal Works. Both installations are based on electricity. As a result, the energy situation in Central Norway is critical. The previous government also provided no more energy based on gas power plants. My question is as follows: Is the representative Burnde able to show a little more humility than he has so far shown in terms of his own responsibility for access to clean new renewable energy? Wasn't four years enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e598	Thank you first for the nice words initially. When it comes to the question and what I got when I was the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Industry, I have a good conscience. We developed more hydropower in the four years of Bondevik II than we did in the 1990s. We said yes to Sauda, and we also said yes to many other important hydropower projects. The investment decision concerning Kårstø and the gas power plant there came before we left. That's what we got. In addition, as Minister for the Environment, I said yes to gas power plants in connection with Snow White. There were actually representatives in the Storting who sat down and demonstrated against it, but it was a necessary decision. I'm the first to admit that in the last 15 years we haven't built enough energy in Norway. That's why we should have a good job in Stortinget where everyone puts their jaws on the stable in order for us to get to this. We need both gas and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e607	The representative Burnde is concerned with energy decisions in Stortinget. The most important energy decision made in Stortinget is when we adopted the rule of return, that the right to hydropower should fall back to the state. There was one party fighting it. That's right. We know that in the polls it seems that the Right and Advance Party are approaching 50 pst. For my part and for SV's part, the scare scenario is that it was going to happen, precisely because the two parties want to remove the fall-back scheme. Right big chief, Kåre Willoch, says the following in the class fight yesterday: ‘As a good conservative, I maintain national ownership of power resources.’ And he warns against the Right Party and the Advance Party's policy in the case of homelessness. Is it true that the representative Børge Brende still believes that it is right to remove the fall-back regime so that private non-resident owners can take over Norway's most important jewel?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e623	First I have to say that Kåre Willoch has been an inspiration to me. When he generally expresses himself on energy and environmental issues, I think he has wise considerations. In the case of the fall-back institute in particular, I have registered that the Government has now chosen to go to the European Court of Justice to try the Norwegian scheme. I said that we took note when this matter became known. And then we'll see what the court concludes with. I remember a minister for environmental protection who went out with fire and bram just after she joined, and said that now we are going to ban Norwegian brominated flame retardants, against environmental poisons. Now the Minister for the Environment has changed his mind, because ESA has said something else. When we get the clarification from the European Court of Justice, I think we all have to go in ourselves to find future-oriented solutions to that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e632	The representative Børge Burnde is, as expected, out and slaughtering the government's actions that were published today. The black paint he comes with is a bad thing. Already today – after the public release – we have heard that Light Energy has published that they are going to bet on wind power. There will be a positive signal from water power builders, among others. My home country, Sogn and Fjordane. And the bioenergy producers are happy. When the representative Børge Burnde with such an commitment slaughters this government's actions, there must be reason to ask: What was the previous government – which Burne himself was part of – doing that was better than this government's actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e641	Had it even been so that I was the one who slaughtered the scheme that Regerin-gen came with for grants and renewable energy initiatives, there would have been no big problem. The problem is that today is historic for both those who are going to produce energy and for the environment movement. Everything from the Union of Nature and Bellona to Nature and Youth has gone out and slaughtered the proposal and believes that this means that many projects are now getting the hook on the door. Nord-Trøndelag E-verk has said today that unfortunately they must drop wind power projects. Many small-scale projects are also being dropped. What did the Bondevik II government have as an alternative here? Well, we had the green certificates, which also belonged to the representative's party at the time. It is undeniable that if you had introduced the green certificates, at least that would have led to twice as many carrots to stimulate this green energy. That is why it is a sad day for renewable energy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e653	On Tuesday we all heard the King read the following from the throne: ‘The fight against illegal fishing in the Barents Sea will have the highest priority.’ For us in the Environment Committee, this is a proper up-priority to stop a robbery that has been going on for many years. Illegal, unregistered and unreported fishing is an environmental crime of the worst kind. It's a theft from the community and from today's fishermen, but it's also a theft from future generations. There was a shock on many along the coast when the researchers recommended a reduction of 35 pst. on the total quota for cod next year. This meant that next year Norwegian fishermen will have to pay for the illegal overfishing of other nations in the Barents Sea, in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Atlantic. Overfishing and illegal conditions have been known for many years by the Norwegian authorities. The previous government did not have the power to grips with this resource and environmental crime. There is good reason to commend the Stoltenberg Government for making it visible in one year Norwegian surveillance, Norwegian law enforcement and presence in these sea areas. There is every reason to pay tribute to Mr Pedersen, Minister for Fisheries, who has wrongly addressed this problem with the European countries and with the Russians. Yesterday, Norway and the EU signed an agreement on measures against illegal fishing, an agreement involving monitoring and control of fisheries. The Framework Agreement provides clear guidelines for cooperation between Norway and the EU Member States on common fisheries resources and strengthens the parties’ fight against illegal, unregistered and unreported fishing. Illegal fishing is one of the main resource challenges for both Norway and the other European fisheries nations. It is only through agreements and close cooperation that we can manage to overcome this crime. The government of Stoltenberg has presented a balanced, comprehensive plan for the management of the northern regions. All these challenges require cooperation, regulation and not least Norwegian presence. Our coastal vessels must be operational, active and visible in the area. Our inspectors have a demanding but important job. Norway must take the lead in the fight against the pirates. We have to be on the side of the environment and resources. This applies not least in the Svalbard zone. Here we assume responsibility for sound resource management. This is Norway's right, and it's our duty. The svalbard zone is a particularly vulnerable area, where it is imperative to put an end to predatory fishing. Norwegian presence in these resource-rich areas shall be a priority task. The territorial challenges we know are many, but the government has managed these conflicts with wisdom and firmness and through cooperation. The importance of Norwegian presence and activity in those sea areas will be increased in the future. It is reassuring to know, then, that we now have a government that is capable of action in its north-eastern policy, which is involved with the environment, and which takes responsibility for sustainable resource management. Finally, I want to bring forward the paradox in our North Region challenge. In our strategic work on management, activity and presence, we have to take into account that Norway is a small country that has huge natural resources in the form of petroleum resources and fish and other biomass. Historically, there is no reasonable relationship between the major interests of Norway and the instruments used by the Norwegian authorities to safeguard those interests. In this sense, we can say that Norway is here a small country with major interests, interests that we are to protect – both resources and the environment – and we are to take care of the Norwegian opportunities that exist in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e677	The languages of the throne are in many ways an interesting speech. It says something about ambitions and goals of the position, but at the same time it also challenges the opposition to clarify the differences between the two parties. That is why this is an important debate, which is leading some of the things that may follow. At the same time, it's probably like being provoked and surprised in some contexts. I have to say that I was fascinated by the representative Gunn Olsen of the Workers' Party, who was in the pulpit and talked about a new course, new opportunities and a new majority. She is of course right that there is a new majority in this Chamber, but if we look at the election result as such, it was also per. definition by a civil majority on the outside. It's election law that imprisoned a new government and a new majority, not the people on the outside. So go to the throne speech -- I'm done with my heart sugar. I think there has been little focus on justice policy, and then some of us have to take that glove up. I think I'm going to be so bold that I'm going to brag by the Government for some of the points that stand there. I think it is good to mention here that you want to continue to focus on international cooperation to combat cross-border crime. We agree on that, and there we should have a common objective. Another moment that the government is also taking on, and that I think is good, is to extend the use of the caretaker within the Rescue Service. In a long-term country that we have, with many challenges, such can be life-saving, literally, and I will give the Government credit for that. If I now put that piece away and go over to the other side, there are actually things there that fascinate me as well. That's what's challenging. I heard that the committee chair of the Judicial Committee was in the pulpit today and said that now the government has thanked, there is a new course and new opportunities. And I've looked at it a little bit. These possibilities are, of course, defined by the position. They say that now we're going to bet on the police, we're going to settle the recrimination in Oslo. And then you add 6 million. SEK – 6 million. For the financial year last year, the previous government, together with the Progress Party, strengthened the Oslo budget by over 100 million. To the police. It was a bet, at my discretion. We now see that there is a dispute between the Oslo Police Department and the Police Directorate over the situation in relation to counter-terrorism, where at least I will lend a very strong ear to the union, which is actually going to be in the lead. Another thing I've missed, which I might learn more about tomorrow, is the relationship with prison expansion. The Council of State has said – and it is also in the languages of the throne – that something should be done with Halden. Of course, we all welcome that. But I miss the same clarity about the project that was planned in North Norway, in Inner Salt, where the Council of State – before he became the Council of State – was very clear when he was north, and said to put the shovel in the ground. That spade he must have lost, or someone must have taken it from him. There's at least nothing happening there per. today. The new initiative is to be in criminal custody. It might be in its place. At the same time, there are some paradoxes here. I looked at the statistics for the last year. It is a fact that, according to official statistics, through the use of advanced probation, a discount of more than 51000 days has been granted. This represents approximately 140 years in prison. Of course, we could have said that if we take the average for killing cases in Norway, and that is about. eight years, at the bottom of 20 killing cases, we've given it in pure discount annually. Let's get the criminals out of here. Some people might say that it's good social-democratic politics, others say it's boring the victims of crime. At least that's my point of view in that way. Another thing that has been said is that you now want to put in place a testing system with electronic labelling and home-soning. I think that's going to make a lot of people living, for example. in the Holmenkol lock. It's great to zone up there – you have a view of the city, look down on the commons and have it reasonably good at home. But what about those that hold at the other end of the scale, those that are on the lower end of the ranking ladder? Where are they going to have their atoning? Under a bridge in the center? Is that the option, is it a socially fair distribution for a social democratic government? If that's the case, I'll again strongly distance myself from it. So to the last theme that I think is interesting: the government has said that children are not going to zone in prison. I'm essentially supporting that. But the assumption is the link to what kind of crime has been committed. Today, Drammen’s Official Journal has a leader who focuses on using child protection as a punishment. I'll take the freedom to quote a passage from there, where the leader among other things. says: ‘But the direct repugnant of the government’s proposal is that you want to use child protection as a kind of criminal reaction.’ Child protection must help, not punish. In addition, the manager says: ‘Now the government is proposing to mix this youth, the most vulnerable among us, with the worst mob in the country. It's the mob it's a shame to know, not incestopra [[...]] In other words, this is a wild policy that takes care of the criminals and not the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e715	Building a strong welfare society requires that a policy be pursued which is capable of distributing people and which ensures equal opportunities for all. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. But that doesn't mean we don't have many challenges that we need to solve. Ensuring work for everyone has always been important for the Workers' Party. We do not agree with the market librarians who believe that unemployment is healthy for the economy. Unemployment is wasting resources. That is why I am very pleased that since the government took over, unemployment has fallen sharply, and employment is increasing. That people have work and income is the most important way to get people to participate in society, it creates security and prevents poverty. For the Government and for the majority of the population, it is important to facilitate the participation of people — by providing kindergarten to all those who want it — through schemes such as maternity leave and by securing workers through the Labour Environment Act. But as the Prime Minister pointed out in his speech, we still have too many people who are on the outside of the world of work, who live on some kind of social welfare, and who wish they could participate. It takes the government seriously. Through the comprehensive reform of labour and welfare management that we are in the middle of, we are building up a system that will bring more people back to work. Through the upcoming big-time communication on work, well-being and inclusion, we will have more tools to actually help people become able to participate in the labour market by becoming qualified and by testing their working capacity. The fact that people have a job to do is profitable both for individuals and for society as a whole. Eliminating poverty is demanding. It is only through structural changes that it can happen. We can do a lot through action plans against poverty. But it's through distributing and having a strong public sector and ensuring that everyone is included, including in the workplace, that we can actually do it. Today, the opposition has expressed a great deal of impatience with the Government — that it spends too much time implementing its electoral promises. But the truth is that the Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy are doing well to implement the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. We're on track, even though there was a lot to clean up after the previous government. There is obviously some short-term memory in this room, because when today's government took over, there was a situation where unemployment was dramatically high, the municipalities were totally hungry for food, it was added to the more privatization of the school, it was cut off in actions for those who were unemployed, and the work environment law was about to be demolished. The election a year ago was about exactly this, about what kind of society people want. Is it a society where those who have the least are to be fed with alms, where you do not pursue an active labour market policy, and where you give tax relief to those who have the most from before, or is it a society where we build a robust public sector where people have equal opportunities, where you want to actively take people back to work, where those who have the most also have to pay the most tax, and where are the Community solutions given priority? The voters said they wanted more fellowship, not less. The Government is now fully implementing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e735	A few weeks ago, Al Gore was in Norway. Then I had the pleasure of being invited to the screening of his film on the major climate challenges we are facing. It's a serious film, because there's a significant job to do. But the positive message is that it's possible to do that job, and it's possible to make it at an affordable price that doesn't put our wealth at risk. Just this has been a key point for many years for the Left's environmental policy – that it is possible to combine good environmental policies with maintaining the welfare community and securing jobs. Yes, in fact, a necessary part of ensuring the welfare community and future jobs is having a good environmental policy. After the film, the government invited him to a reception where Al Gore and Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg were side by side. Then I made some reflections. On the one hand, Al Gore, who now spends most of his time travelling around and inspiring Heads of State to take the environmental challenges seriously, used the technical opportunities available there, and the future solutions to shape energy and environmental policies. On the other hand, Jens Stoltenberg, who became heroically famous because he was leading the work that led to the central government being killed because he would not build a gas power plant without requiring the cleaning of CO2. Jens Stoltenberg took over the government responsibility, and gave three concessions for the construction of gas power plants without requiring cleaning. It was a blind trail, and it led to a stop in the work of promoting the clean solutions, because the builders thought it was a political regime that would accept gas power without cleaning. Then came the Soria Moria statement that could indicate that the Prime Minister had come up with new and better thoughts. Gas power in Norway was to be combined with requirements for cleaning from day one. Later we have understood that what seemed clear is not so clear. It turns out that the Soria Moria Declaration is not a clear political basis for work, but a political accordion that can be shaped as needed. Now it opens for a period without cleaning at the gas power stations to which the Government is obviously prepared to grant a concession. That means that one opens for a long period and a black player game about who is going to pay the bill, and what solutions are going to be chosen. Now there are plans for gas power plants on the Tent Goods, in Forest and in Mongstad. On Kårstø in Rogaland it is built with the background in a concession given by the Stoltenberg I government. There is a need for the Government now to clarify how it will contribute to the clean-up of CO2 at gas power plants in Norway, to provide a concrete assessment of these projects that are now in place, to give an indication of how the State will contribute, and to the order in which it wishes to contribute in relation to these specific projects. Today, a scheme was presented that would be the option for green certificates. The Prime Minister and the Government have promised that the option will be better than the scheme of green certificates that were scrapped. It didn't. In reality, this means that in the coming years, one will provide 400 million. kr more for renewable energy production. Green certificates would trigger between 1.5 and 2.5 billion kroner. So what is the alternative is much worse. As a result, many renewable energy-producing projects will stop and not be realised. Yesterday, the low-emission committee presented its setting. Many were enthusiastic, among them the Minister for the Environment. One could believe by the reaction that one saw, that one would follow the recommendations that were. Today you know it's not right. From day one, one breaks what must be political arrangements in order to follow up the setting of the Low Emissions Committee. They have clear recommendations to support renewable energy production in a way that the Government today does not show its willingness to do so. It would have been important if the Prime Minister today used the opportunity to say that the recommendations made by the Low Emissions Committee and the main conclusion that one should reduce emissions by two thirds by 2050 would also become a formal Norwegian target. I am uncertain about the Government's willingness to follow up the selection's setting on the basis of the comprehensive scheme one has today presented for renewable energy production.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e761	Several have today mentioned that the Progress Party and the Right invite each other to a closer and more committed cooperation. The Left Party obviously does not like that their relationship to this alliance will be taken up if you look at the answers that representatives Sponheim and Dørum have come with today. They obviously don't like letting the voters know what you think about this. But I still ask, how will the Left deal with a bourgeois alliance where the Progress Party is involved? Does the representative of Kvassheim agree with his parliamentary leader that there is no need to deal with this? The left says they're very concerned with environmental policy, while the Progress Party, which will be the dominant party in the possible alliance, is known as a party that doesn't believe that we have man-made climate change, and that actually believes that everyone in Norway should preferably have their own car. Then I ask: How will the Left approach a cooperation where the Progress Party is involved, especially in terms of environmental policy – is the Left included, or is the Left not included?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e768	As far as environmental policy is concerned, I am much more concerned about what today's government stands for than what a possible government in three years' time will do. But I can promise Eva Kristin Hansen that the Left will never support a policy that does not contribute to Norway being the best in the environment. It will also be the starting point in the future when we are going to contribute to the formation of government. Together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, we were able to achieve a very good environmental policy. Record-sized areas were protected, public transport was heavily invested and we were able to stop the technetium emissions from Sellafield. So we have shown that, in cooperation with the Right and Christian People's Party, we can make good environmental policies. And we're going to do that in the future. Now it remains to be seen whether the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party can do the same. Today they've shown they can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e773	I am recording increasing disagreement in environmental policy between the old government parties Left and Right. We get criticism from the Right to be too environmentally friendly, because we don't want to open up to build highly polluting gas power plants without requiring CO2 management. At the same time, we from the Left are criticised for not being environmentally friendly enough. The environmental policy distance has increased between the Left and the Right since they left the government quarter. This distance is also an indication of why the previous government did not manage the CO2 emissions environmentally, despite the promises made in the Sem declaration. Gunnar Kvassheim’s contributions show that the change in government has benefited Left’s environmental policy. In addition, the government shift has been good for those who want to manage CO2 and invest in new renewable energy. But I just have to repeat the question asked by the representative: does Kvassheim see that an alliance between the Right and the Advance Party, where the Left is involved, solves the challenges we face in reducing greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e791	As you'll know, it's totally out of the question for the Left to go to government with the Advance Party, among other things. because we stand so far apart in environmental policy. It is quite right that the Left and Right have different environmental policies, but here has a recent practice showing how these two parties can cooperate on environmental policy. I definitely recognize myself as a left-winger the environmental policy led by the Bondevik II government. Therefore, I am convinced that future government constellations can have a good environmental policy in cooperation between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. For the clean-up of CO2, important steps were taken by the previous government, including: reduced a large fund, where the yield was used to provide the basis for the solutions to be used for CO2 cleaning at gas power plants. What is now the big question is whether it is possible to achieve the Government’s objective to clean Kårstø by 2009. If possible, tomorrow's government budget will have to give much of the answer. If not, we will have enough promise from today's government in environmental policy, linked to clean-up at Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e804	The environmental policy of the left has been reasonably predictable in the last year. Together with the major environmental organisations, one tries to attack the Government by being far more environmentally friendly than what the Government is, whether it's about renewable energy, it's about the north, or it's about gas. I think that's all right. But it's a paradox when you look at the seven-mile steps left in environmental policy, from where you were in position just a year ago. One became so much more environmentally friendly overnight that one actually added significant funds to one's own environmental budget when last year it presented its alternative proposal to the state budget. We have raised the climate problem to a level that Kvassheim is far from being able to acknowledge, by saying that we need to clean up the gas power. It was a promise that the previous government in no way saw itself able to contribute to. This is the single promise that the Low Emissions Committee believes is the most important, and that will contribute most to our achievement of our objectives. Can Kvassheim answer me as to why he believes that after this seven-mile step we still appear as climate hosting?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e815	I have not used the term climate hosting. But I am disappointed that what is produced as a historical clarification in the Soria Moria declaration, namely that there should be gas power with demands for cleaning from day one, now is no longer valid. This was a lot of people who thought of it as a historical distinction, because one had made the Workers' Party turn around. When one sees that with the arrangements of the Workers' Party, which seem to win, it will happen as one has always wanted, namely that one should build, and then one should clean up. So I definitely acknowledge the policy of the previous government in this area. It had as part of its platform that no concessions were to be granted without a requirement for cleaning at gas power plants. I would also like to congratulate Mr Borten Moe on the breakthrough the Centre Party has achieved in one environmental area, unfortunately with negative signs. The party promised that there would be a break. After the previous government had increased the protected area by 50 pst, it became so much for the Center Party that a protective break was promised. That promise has been made. It's a pity for the environment, but it's a victory for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e824	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e827	We have had a social development in which the community and the Community solutions are now the most important. That's good. This applies not least to children and young people. We now experience a government that implements the greatest bet on children and young people in many areas, with many measures and tools. Kindergarten bet is perhaps the biggest, with places for everyone who wants it, with good quality and low price for parents. That's the promise we've given in Soria Moria, and that's what we're now seeing happening. Today, nine out of ten people want it, place in the kindergarten, and next year, everyone who wants it will have kindergarten. 2007 can become, with our willingness to bet on kindergartens, a historic year for kindergarten policy here in the country, but not at least a historic year for the children who will then have the place they want in kindergarten and which they have been waiting for. It is not easy, but it is possible. Tromsø has done it, Trondheim does it during the fall, and it tells us that when the government sets up, and there is political will locally, as these two red-green cities show, it is quite possible to give everyone who wants it a place in the kindergarten. Kindergartens are community, inclusion and participation, and a clear example of the value that is important to this government and this vast majority. Another example is our commitment to culture. Culture has first and foremost a self-esteem that is important to all of us, but culture also helps to achieve so many other important goals and desires. Culture creates inclusion and cohesion and contributes to creativity, well-being and development for children and young people, but also for all of us. We're going to make sure that Norway becomes a leading cultural nation. We'll make sure to strengthen the efforts of those who do voluntary work. We're going to make sure to lift both amateurs and professionals within the arts and culture, whether it's kids who're going to learn to play cornets in the school corps, professional symphony orchestras, actors on national stage or theater and review groups across the whole country. The cultural life of Norway now experiences something that must be considered to be a day of glamour. Optimism is great, expectations are great, and the results are good. Where previous expansion has meant fighting and fighting to achieve a cultural effort of some tens of millions, there are now hundreds of millions of extra bets we're talking about. We see that investing in the communities that culture creates makes us all richer. That's the idea behind the cultural promise we've given, that's the idea behind the Soria Moria promises, and that's the result we see when we now discharge and follow up our will to bet on culture, activity, experiences and participation. Through the Cultural Lift, the Grand Prix and the Government make sure that cultural policy is properly put on the agenda. We need to make sure that culture is part of it, which has been in the range of 0.5-0.6 pst for many years. by the State budget, in 2014 shall be 1 pst. It is ambitious, but it is quite possible when it is political will to do so. When this vision and this political will were put down on paper, there were many who thought it irresponsible that it was superfluous and that it was not a threat. One year with a new government and a new plural has shown that we're going well, and we're going to follow up in the years to come. Another approach to raising the political status of culture – in addition to what we do to increase the rights – is the work of a cultural law. We have laws in a lot of areas today, and we have more within cultural life. But we haven't had a general cultural law that says anything about the public's responsibility to facilitate cultural activities and cultural participation for everyone across the country – whether it's in Valdres, in Oslo or anywhere else. The fact that we are now also working on this work is a confirmation of the systematic and good work done by the Government to strengthen the cultural sector. The previous The Trontala tells us that we are doing well to meet the pediatric effort, the cultural promise and all the other initiatives in the Soria Moria Declaration, and she tells us that it is the community and the Community values that are to shape policy even in the next fiscal year. We should all be very happy about that and very much appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e848	Soria Moria is in a high place. This applies both to the adventure version and to the one in the Holmenkol lock. Seeing the reality from large heights can in the meantime be for the gain of the perspective. But it can also be dangerous, because it can create a significant risk of confusing the air reflections you see with reality. After all, the person who has followed today's debate on the throne must have been cut off from the self-satisfaction of the government's spokesmen and the government parties in this Chamber. If others had seen the picture that the government saw when it looked in the mirror, it would have been expected that the voter response would have been then, that one had a deafening uproar and enthusiasm. That's not the case, as you know. And that must mean that the image that the voters have of this government's efforts is significantly different from that of the self-image government. It's not a problem for the opposition, but it could be a significant problem for the government. Before last year's elections, Norwegian voters were told about all the blessings that would result from a majority government, after many years of minority government. You should get order, you should get predictability, you should get control – in short, everything should be much better than before. It's obviously not what the majority of voters see when they see today's government coalition. They see a government quarter in conflict with themselves, and they see a government quarter that is also in conflict with its supporters, both in the United States and in major sectors of society. It is quite interesting that a Grand President of the Workers' Party at the first transfiguration after the change of government finds reason to remind the majority government that a majority government also has to deal with the Stortinget. Budgetary leakages have previously occurred in the hidden area, preferably below the waterline. It's the first time in history that we've got a government calling out the budget leaks from the bridge with shouts. If this development continues for four years, at the end of this reigning period, the Storing will probably be the last instance in this country to become aware of the government's draft budget. It is, in my opinion, an eye-catching lack of respect for our state custom and for our constitutional rules. When, in the previous period, the Presidency changed its Rules of Procedure so that the change of terms of reference would take place before the draft budget was presented, it was under the express condition that the addressee of the Government's draft budget was the Stortinget, and that the Minister of Finance would present the budget to both the Stortinget and the Norwegian people. It's a significant height of fall when you stick to a self-image like this government does. In the evening there is a large article entitled ‘The Psychiatry Grows’. It is one of the highest priority objectives of welfare policy in this country. And it's clear that today's psychetry queues are increasing more than capacity is increasing. It is clear that very many people have to wait for absolutely necessary medical care for more than half a year, and that the number is increasing. The 10,000 famous annual works that we have heard of since last year's election campaign, and which the Prime Minister repeated in his speech here in the Stortinget today, show itself by closer scrutiny also to be an air reflection. If you look at what the Government has actually promised the Storting to do, it's at best a projection of the increase in the number of annual care we've had in recent years. There is no new bet at all! However, it has been suggested that this should be a unique boost to care policies in this country. I believe that what is the worst enemy of this government is neither the opposition nor anyone else, it is the Government itself and the unrealistic promises of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e868	Norway is going well for the time being. Never before have so many been in work as today, and unemployment continues to decline. We promised in the election campaign to bet on the community over tax credits for those who have the most from before. We promised to invest in Community solutions rather than private solutions for the few. We have kept these promises, and they can be found in the reversal of the privatisation wave that the previous government had launched, and we find it particularly in what we promised the municipalities: a much better community economy that allows for improving the care of the elderly, increasing welfare measures, combating poverty, building more kindergartens and investing in schools. This has enabled municipalities to cancel planned cuts and instead maintain and develop the offer to their inhabitants. In addition, the primary school has been strengthened by the cessation of the privatisation of schools. Even the Oslo City Council will be able to present a liberal budget. I think it's incredibly good to hear that the financial agency can say that in 2006 we're overreached, while 2004 and 2005 were difficult years for the Municipality of Oslo. These are music in my ears from profiled right-wing people. Now the pools are filled with water, and in my own municipality it is also completely refurbished. Similar conditions are reported from almost all municipalities in the country, that critical cuts have been avoided, and that the population is beginning to see improvements in the provision of services. Employees in the municipalities do not live in daily fear of dismissals. With the previous government, private wealth would continue to grow, and municipalities would be relatively poorer. As a result, the Government continues to provide a high level of income for the local government sector in 2007. When I'm inside the municipalities, I also have to mention the kindergartens. A massive effort on kindergarten development means that more and more children can find room in kindergarten, which is a safety for their parents, and with a maximum price, better advice for the young children’s parents. Perhaps they can afford to send larger children on different cultural offers, which a red-green government is going to make cheaper. Culture is a value in itself and creates creativity and coherence. The cultural promise created by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party already has ring-fenced effects across the country. It is also about culture when we are going to launch a comprehensive north-eastern policy. Nordic policy is not only about oil and gas, but also about all the other values we have in the north, not least fisheries, the agricultural industry and travel. But let's not forget the human resources, and let's not forget that the development in the north is a matter of value to the whole nation of Norway. Finally, I would like to send a greeting to the former Minister for the Environment and Industry, Mr Børge Brende. He is constantly on the road in terms of developments in the power market, but what did he do as Minister of Industry in relation to more energy supply? He probably listened to the Left, because they believe that most things damage the environment, and thus nothing was really done. And what did Minister of Oil and Energy Thorild Widvey from the Right answer to questions about action in the context of the 2003 power crisis? Well, she replied that she would notify Statkraft that power shortages would be counteracted by introducing higher electricity prices in areas with a lack of electricity. That was her solution. This means that the Bondevik government never initiated measures for the production of more electricity into the market. Why? You can speculate on that. Could there be great disunity within the government that was actually showered down public? The answer to all of this is that the red-green government does not push down any things, nor disagreements, but wears a curved neck and is well-informed with the tasks described in the Soria Moria statement. And we're still going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e889	The multicultural ideology and the multicultural idea have failed. Over the decades, the majority of this room believed that if you took the time to help, the problems associated with the massive immigration we have had into Norway from foreign cultural countries would be resolved. The other parties from the extreme left and far into the right have claimed that if you met the immigrants from other cultures on equal foot through dialogue and through understanding, yes, things would go on over time. Unfortunately, the world has turned out not to be so easy. One cannot equate Norwegian culture, where western values such as freedom, democracy, equality and equality are fundamental, with cultures where intolerance, coercion and women's oppression are practiced to a large extent. There are absolute values where you never have to four an inch, where you never have to fold, values that are so basic that you become self-destructive if you do. Unfortunately, it seems that we have a government that is more concerned with dialogue with the immigrant community than with showing firmness and loyalty to important national principles. We saw it in the battle around the Muhammad drawings, where we had a foreign minister who was more concerned with running diplomacy than with defending freedom of expression, where the editor of a Norwegian newspaper was unjustly hanged because he practiced what is his constitutional right. But the most ghastly example of the government's infallibility is when the government is not willing to make a firm settlement with the inhumane female oppression that is taking place today in parts of the conservative immigrant communities. Today, in 2006, girls in Norway are sexually mutilated. Girls in Norway are coerced, sent to their home country as a living visa to get a spouse hit – immigration through so-called family establishment. We have thousands of girls who are deprived of their education, who are brainwashed to suppress because they are sent back to go to school in the country of origin. And we have women from the immigrant communities today who are kept out of the labour market, who are not allowed to be part of the Norwegian labour market. They are detained, given limited training in Norwegian and are not allowed to be a free person. This is completely unacceptable, but it is happening today. Every time these problems have been up, every time you've discussed sexual mutilation, you've discussed the problem of coercion and all these things, you've said it was cruel, it was horrible, and then you've done some information, you've made some nice brochures, but you've never been willing to apply the law. These conditions are now, we can't fight these evils. We cannot combat the repression that unfortunately is taking place today in parts of the immigrant environment, without using the law in a clear, concise way through control. My great hope and great encouragement is, first of all, that, in connection with the Foreign Affairs Act, you are willing to look at, among other things. The 24-year limit and the measures necessary for the release of women in the immigrant environment, but also for the integration aspects, the law is applied and the immigrant woman is given her freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e907	I will first link a few comments to the last speaker that was up here. I am glad that not all are as oblique and oblique as regards this problem. I think someone here should be thorough. I think someone should listen. Of course, one should use the law, but one should avoid knocking political coins on these matters. I also wondered if I had been a little too hard when I had thought about what I was going to talk about today. But when I heard the representative's salary, I found out that I had really taken the blink, because this debate is very much about rhetoric. The opposition's reactions to the census have been largely predictable – tabloid rhetoric without significant political and ideological substance, with some exceptions in the Chamber today. It seems that the opposition is not so much interested in talking about its own policies and ideology, and in particular the lack of ideological depth is striking in this debate on the part of the opposition. But it's probably nothing else to expect when you have a political opposition that's as divided as it is, despite the fact that you've seen a lot of fries in the last few days from the Right to the Advance Party. When the situation is as it is, maybe it's as good to shoot from the hip, and so I want to ask some question: what does the opposition really want? And not least, what impact does the Right and Advance Party's policy have on social development and for people the most? The main message of politics is what kind of society we're going to have. After we in the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, took over the control, much has changed. We have turned society towards more justice and community. We've been focusing on well-being over tax relief for those who have a lot of things in the past. In particular, the municipalities have marked this, which in turn has led to more resources. school and care. We have stopped a large-scale privatisation of the school. We have stopped the liberalisation of the work environment law that would lead to the brutalisation of working life. This is, to a very large extent, a policy for most people. With these things and a number of other priorities, we show a clear policy course that has one main objective: to further develop and strengthen the Norwegian welfare community. Here we are probably at the heart of what is the real reason for the criticism that the Right Party in particular and the Advance Party in particular are targeting us. It's about different values and social views. The choice of the Right and Advance Party is the market-based society, the importance of privatisation of welfare tasks and the importance of profit over human beings. But we have seen this policy in practice, for example. in the United Kingdom when Thatcher crashed. I understand that the Progress Party in particular is careful to make its liberalist ideology and policy visible and its consequences. But the voters deserve all the parties to see the consequences of their policies. So far, the right-hand side – with the Advancement Party at its head – has escaped relatively easily, so I ask: When will the right-hand side tell the opinion what the sum of their policies will mean to people the most? That is what will ultimately be the most important thing. I am pleased with the change in course we have made after just one year. We've set the course along the path that the voters led us to last year's roll-call elections, towards a warmer society where community and welfare are given priority instead of the Market Society of the Right and the Advance Party where self-interest and profit are the most important values.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e926	However, at the risk of not satisfying the last speaker's demands for ideological depth, I shall try to talk a little bit about politics as I see the social problems in a political perspective. I'm going to talk about people, contrary to what the last speaker thinks Right-People should do. I would also like to talk about people in the workplace, because I believe that some of the things that give quality of life are having a safe and good relationship with the workplace. That's why one of the biggest challenges facing this society is the fact that it's about. one quarter of the workforce is out of line. It was a main theme of the Swedish election campaign, which I may have seen a little further in the future than this debate. One should be a little careful to compare the two debates, but it was one of the main issues in Sweden. In fact, ensuring the link to permanent work is a matter of quality of life, and restoring the ability to work to those who are not related to work today is actually a matter of repatriation of self-respect — so difficult, yet so simple. The economic side of this is, of course, that labour shortages are likely to be the main obstacle to growth for future governments in Norway in the foreseeable future. The current perspective will be that reducing the pressure on the economy today can be done not only by budgetary means, which we will come back to, but also by measures that increase access to labour. That might be so important. I will leave the economic perspective with this, but be relatively concrete and say that it is in two important areas that we can increase access to labour. We can make it easier to get a job into this country. There we are now saved by the enlargement coming into the EU, and I hope the Government will signal very early that transitional measures are not being taken for Bulgaria and Romania when that labour force becomes part of the EEA territory. In Norway, we have benefited greatly from the enlarged EU in order to solve our growth problems, to date in particular in relation to Poland and the Baltic countries, and there is no need to put difficulties in getting new labour to the country. But when it is said that labour immigration alone does not solve our problems. As far as the main part is concerned, we need to make sure that our own labour force is used better. Then I think there are three important areas to point out. One is that the reform of higher education must succeed by enabling us to get young people into work in the past. Getting a year's coal into work earlier means a lot for the creation of value and also a lot for the well-being and the possibility of getting a job for young people. So to the other -- those who are thrown out of work very early. With the NAV reform, we have a completely different opportunity to provide an effective brokerage service on the individual's premises. Attempts in two urban areas here in Oslo, which is the size of a medium-sized Norwegian city, where the municipality took Aetat's money, show that there is actually more efficient communication with fewer resources by what I call a proximity method, which simply goes to the following: A young jobseeker or a social worker comes and asks about their rights, and is told, but at the same time – and I use the words of the Minister of Labour – to come back on Monday, stand up for the morning and report to the job search or get a clarification on what problems are reported to him: Do you have language problems, do you have mental problems, do you have physical problems, or are you quite prepared to go into work training or work? Through language courses in a combination with work training, you get more of our immigrants into work than anyone has done so far. Employment training also increases the number of jobs that have been done so far through placement. The experience of such attempts is good. The second experience is that the earlier one manages to stop a social security career – to use an expression that I don't like, but that is a career in the form of health care, social security, disability and rehabilitation – the better is the result. For this reason, I also hope that the Government in its – we will call it – non-parliamentary discussions on the budget presented tomorrow, on measures to reduce sick leave, is considering placing a major emphasis on perhaps increasing the potential of businesses to carry out rehabilitation and rehabilitating activities themselves during the long-term disease reporting period. Because the numbers are scary. 85 pst. of those who are long-term sick, never come back. Humanly speaking, it's a tragedy, and economically, it's hopeless. We have to do something earlier during the medical period, and new measures are required for that reason. Later this month, we'll come back to this in an interpellation I've traveled, to also do something about senior policy. It is unacceptable with 58 years as a retirement age in Norway. We also have to do something about the seniors, so that we can use the skills they have built up, longer in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e943	When the fires following the Muhammed drawings are about to go out, we should go into a new year of mass destruction and government work to find basic answers on how to build a democratic, well-functioning, inclusive and multicultural society. I think this is one of the biggest challenges we're facing. If we don't deal with this, I'm sure we won't be able to meet other major challenges in the Norwegian context. In the multicultural perspective, in my home town, Drammen, it has been a debate-maker again this summer, you might say, on immigration and integration. This could have been an interesting discussion if everyone had been concerned about talking to each other with respect and staying too good for unhealthy posts. It wasn't, to say it this way, and I record that such a form of debate is not unique locally at home in the Drama, but is carried forward by different people and environments elsewhere in this country as well. Today we have got this staged by the representative Amundsen from the Progress Party, in a post I think I will comment a little later. The starting point for our local debate was that one of the local wholesale representatives of the Progress Party thought that immigrants should get a kick behind and get out of the chair and out of work on a general basis. After a heated debate on this, I have met with other progress party people and ordinary people who say straight away that it was a smart thing to say. But luckily, I've also met many people who take a strong distance from such a way to talk about their fellow citizens. It often happens quickly that many people connect the demand to get out of the high chair, to get a kick behind, with the demand to become like us, to become Norwegian. Be like us, is the mantra. The main problem for many in the public debate and for most people is that today's immigrants are not the same enough for us so-called ethnic Northmen. This fall one of the television channels has shown a program they call the nation. In that program we follow a God-believer girl, a satan-rocker, a girl who likes to dress naked against money, criminals in prisons – at all a relatively broken congregation. Common to all of them is that they are Norwegian citizens, otherwise there are total inequalities. I'll encourage everyone, especially in this room, to watch the program and then tell us the rest of Norway's population what you put in the typical Norwegian. Because it's much harder than you think. Although the representative of the Progress Party made an effort instead, I must say with all respect that equality, freedom of expression and human rights are more about lawmaking, welfare and a well-functioning modern society than about so-called cultures. I have to say that the difference between my post from this pulpit and his posts may well testify that I am closer to others in Norwegian society than I am to him, to say so, but we are both Norwegian citizens. We have to stop putting different cultures up against each other in Norway in the public debate. On several occasions we have heard of people who believe that immigrant leaders have to get on the road to take responsibility for immigrants not getting out of the sofa and out on the labour market. In the past we have also heard that the same people are going to get on the track, like repeatedly, and distance themselves from terrorism when people burst into the air in the name of Allah. Of course, it is good that leaders in all contexts go ahead as good examples and show us what is right and wrong. But when did we last hear someone who thought that ethnic Northmen too – we, on a general basis – must be on the track and take responsibility for the fact that there are many ethnic Northmen born and raised in Norway, who are quite similar to me in the skin, who do not get out of work? When did we hear most people in my home state, where we have an organization called Vigrid, who is foreshadowing a very fragile human vision, say that we have to take an active distance every time they do something in the public debate, because we are, after all, from the same state, we belong to the same culture? Of course we don't, because that's ridiculous. We have to get away from putting people in booths. The individual must be judged on the basis of what he or she does and not on the basis of what people with the same ethnic background do. I say it very strongly that the Progress Party is a party that has representatives who are constantly talking in this way I don't like, and they have a special responsibility to contribute to a change of words that is more nuanced and that is about the people it actually concerns. It's absolutely right to make demands. Then we have to use that opportunity to talk about what actually works. It is not least about a few measures I will mention at the end: try using anonymous application procedures in the municipalities, so that we can recruit more leaders with a minority background. It's about making demands that people learn Norwegian. It's about demands that people have to put up with qualification through NAV when we're about to start, that people come, that people face up to maybe higher support. It's about more resources for schools that have more than 25 pst. minority children — at all, proposals that work. We have to talk about that and not put each other in a booth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e960	I want to start by being allowed to congratulate the Government – not today or tomorrow, but because last Friday the Government got a Minister of Industry. We're happy about that. It's probably a new Minister of Industry. This government has had a business minister for a year who has traveled around the country with an empty jewelry box. What he was able to achieve in his role as Minister of Industry was a controversial door factory in Årdal. He was unable to deliver any matter of importance to Stortinget, and we have gone and waited for an ownership message that has been postponed indefinitely. The new Minister for Economic Affairs has also warned that it will be postponed, but we in the opposition still have patience. Of course, we in the opposition must be positive to the new Minister of Economic Affairs, Dag Terje Andersen. So it's going to be interesting to see if the opposition in the government parties is going to be equally satisfied. Then I think of those who have fronted industrial policy from the red-green, namely the big business representatives Jan Bøhler, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and Per Olaf Lundtegen. They're the ones who've been in opposition to their own government. The rest of us in the established opposition have had some problems getting away to, because it's been such a powerful internal opposition. Now Odd Eriksen took the door and closed the door again and went to Northernland to become County Councillor, and then he can visit one of the companies that have been hit by the decision he made when it came to Årdal, the Bindal farm, which also produces doors. There he can start by looking at his own policy – the little thing he got done. I also noticed that Gerd-Liv Valla in LO has blessed the new Minister of Economic Affairs. It was just supposed to be missing. A little has to be left for the tens of millions you have injected into the Labour Party election campaign. If LO's satisfied, I'm sure everything's going so much better! Then at the throne debate. What I'm happy about is that we talked about overfishing in the Barents Sea. I think that is very good, and I will commend the Minister for Fisheries for being active and trying to establish agreements with the EU and some other countries. I am also pleased with a point in the Soria Moria declaration. I'd like to quote that. It says on page 19 and it goes like this: ‘Unregulated fishing, especially in the Barents Sea, is a serious environmental and economic problem and must be stopped’. So it says it has to be stopped. I think that's a really offensive effort, which I'm very pleased with. The fact that the Minister for Fisheries has travelled around and got to a law is good and good, but the Government's exam will be in the state budget tomorrow, because that's where the appropriations will come from. If you are to get rid of the illegal fishing that is going on, you have to give more money so that you can be there. It does not help with good law and agreements if no one is able to enforce this. If I am satisfied today, it is not certain that I am equally pleased tomorrow. Then I think especially of the practice the government has taken: to lick all the so-called good things in the budget and let the bad ones come tomorrow. Because it is a fact that there has been no signal that the Coast Guard is being strengthened, rather on the contrary. It will then be difficult to control the offensive measures that have so far been signalled by the Government. As the Council of State Haga said, I think a new course in Northern Region policy will be important in the future. For the time being, there has been a course that has actually consisted of many conferences where you have been very positive. In concrete terms, nothing has come from the Government in the case of an offensive North Sea operation. We have made a number of proposals. All the proposals have been put to the vote. I'm excited what the next year will bring.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e984	Of all the concerns I've had, they've caused me the greatest trouble that ever happened," said American politician Benjamin Franklin. Ideologically, Franklin is probably closer to the previous government, but I want to make the opposition aware that Franklin died in 1790, so it could be in place with new thoughts compared to being conservative. Today's debate has reminded me of a saying, namely that the noble is demanding of himself, while the late demands others. I'm not going to link it up to government issues, but I still want to point out that this debate gives me such feelings. Then I'm a little proud, because I have a 10-year anniversary today. I've been in the throne debate for ten years. I have heard the king's speeches for ten years, and let me say that the speech the king gave this year is the best I have ever heard he has given. It was full of political will. It was full of will to do something for the community. When one then also has a government that does what the voters have asked for, a government that draws us towards a better everyday life, towards a better life, towards Soria Moria, becomes a real optimist. I found a look-up in the class struggle with 62 demands that the government would follow up. The class struggle wrote that the government never made it. I'm sitting on the finance committee, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow as a boy rejoices at Christmas Eve. But I'm starting to wonder what we're going to do in the rest of the period if that's just the 62 points to follow up. The government has gained confidence from 1,266,490 people in Norway. They voted for the promise we made in the election campaign. We got the voter's trust. In return, we're going to carry out what we promised. Glad to see you tomorrow! I do. There is also a saying that one can live well by predicting here in the world, but by proclaiming truth becomes a poorer. When one hears the opposition today and has got along with the media that I believe especially the representatives Burnde and Kvassheim have joined in, that is the saying. For the main rule of the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, was that all the numbers that should have gone up went down, while all the numbers that should have gone down went up. While the proportion of health care accounted for increased, the level of labour market intervention decreased. Unemployment went up, but should have gone down. The municipalities should have rusted up, but were forced to cut down. The school buildings fell down, while they should have been built up. In business, the toolbox was empty. They increased the charges so that enterprises were closed down. They wanted to fuck the breweries. They wanted to remove the Norwegian sailor. They said no to an industrial power regime, and the power deficit increased. Earlier today, Børge Burnde denied the claim that they had weakened the power balance in Norway. But they said yes to the Worm Lange. They know what a crisis it is in central Norway. They said yes to Hydro Sunndal. It's quite right, as the representative Burnde said, they gave 1 TWh in concessions, but they didn't build out. If one compares it to the willingness of the Workers' Party in the 1990s, I'll tell you that we actually allocated 13 and 1/2 TWh in concessions. It's not built out either. But here one shouldn't hit the chest because one hasn't done anything at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e999	The President would like to congratulate Klungland on its 10th anniversary. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1004	Before the elections last year, the government went out and promised a massive environmental upgrade of the Grorud Valley. Among other things, a container terminal was to be built on Alnabru. But the same government looks at the Post Norway establishing itself at Robsrud in Lørenskog municipality, with the environmental consequences it has for Groruddalen and Lørenskog. This will lead to the opposite of the government's choice, namely to upgrade the Groruddalen environment. The post Norway should have been established near the new container hall and the new container terminal, which Oslo Municipality and the State Road Administration considered to be the most environmentally friendly solution. This would have a positive impact for the Groruddalen and Lørenskog municipalities, with 5.2 million fewer kilometres driven – with less emissions of dust, noise and unnecessary traffic – just passing through the Groruddalen. The Minister of Transport also warned about transferring freight traffic to the railway, without any concrete action being taken. Akershus and Oslo experience that they are the major losers in strengthening road appropriations. Transport is important for the environment and for the economic development of Akershus and a prerequisite for a living state. The development and maintenance of roads in Akershus is also important for the whole country. E6/E18 acts as a major artery for the whole country. The ambition of full babysitting is good. Some municipalities may be at risk of not doing so, and it is important that the government does not exclude the private actors – the private kindergartens – but treats them financially with the municipal kindergartens. Private kindergartens account for a large proportion of kindergartens, yes, in many municipalities they account for most of the places. It is likely that 15 000 new kindergartens will have to be established in order to receive full coverage next year. The private kindergartens and municipalities need to be taken more fully into consideration than in the past when following up these ambitious plans. When we hear all the leaks in the last few days, we have the impression that it will look very bright. The rhetoric of the municipal minister has been a new course and that the local economy will be much better. Yes, then all the challenges to the municipalities disappear, as we understand. I wish we had some leaks from the municipal minister too, but as you know, Pamper's close.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1023	The debate today has been essentially both predictable and somewhat strange. From the opposition we have heard that the sitting government does nothing, and at the same time we have heard in articles that the government is doing a terrible lot wrong. Both of them can't be right. Similarly, it's pretty predictable what we're going to hear tomorrow. Some say that the government spends too much money, while one probably from others will be criticised for a user's being too small for many good purposes. So, in general, the debate today is quite predictable. We can conclude that we have a slight impact on the opposition in Stortinget, at least a small overall opposition in Stortinget. On the radio this morning, I heard Erna Solberg say that Regeringa is out of direction. I think that is a completely wrong expression – just as the government Erna Solberg was in, not out of direction. There was a clear direction towards the policy that that government was leading. There was, of course, a clear direction to the right, with the starving public sector, the brutalization of working life and greater differences between people in Norway. Now there is a policy in a different direction. Of course, there won't be dramatic changes overnight, but gradually the political course changes. There is more money for municipalities, it has become more humane work environment legislation, and it has become more community and solidarity. The Prime Minister went thoroughly through the importance of putting in place a new popular peace and invited the Stortinget to a broad settlement in his speech this morning. That work is already in progress. In his post some later, Siv Jensen said that the cooperation between the Government and the opposition has been completely absent. Yes, in the pension case, there may have been a reasonable lack of cooperation, but with the other opposition parties, it is already working. In the pension case, it is in a way the Progress Party against smoking. The Progress Party was not interested in making any compromises at the Pension Commission. The progress party was not interested in participating in the pension agreement in the Stortingen last year, and then they cannot come this year, when the case begins to enter the closing rounds, and expect to join in making a settlement in the pension case. However, with the other opposition parties, it should be possible and desirable to establish a wide-ranging pension settlement. The progress party would have a completely different pension model, a pension model where all were made into minimum pensioners. And that after several progress party representatives today have talked about how bad it is to become a minimum pensioner – a somewhat peculiar point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1036	When the Government now presents its state budget for 2007, we get the big test of whether the red-green powers build Norway further. Right thinks building a road is investing for the future. It is in good times – as it is now – that we can, and must, build the country. In Northern Norway, and especially in Northern Ireland, we are dependent on increasing the roadside framework and catching up on the targets of the national transport plan. Nordland has a rich business life, and we have a lot of entrepreneurs who want to bet. Among other things, 211,000 tonnes of salmon and trout are produced in North Norway, and large parts of these are to be transported by trailers to customers across Europe. Furthermore, there is a great deal of investment in tourism and tourism. The right knows that good roads are a prerequisite to ensure that tourists choose to spend their holiday in North Norway, that buses and trailers can get safely out in North Norway, and that we ensure jobs and thus well-being. Therefore, increased appropriations for transport are needed. Also in the road sector, the government has promised a lot. We in the Right and North Norway are very excited about the budget tomorrow, and hope it doesn't go along as it went with the promise of investing in free school food and lower electricity prices to the industry. The last have doubled – not the bet, but the prices!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1049	It is a concern in politics. The majority government is perceived as a threat to the established and shall be combated by all means. The opposition focuses on chaos, internal unrest and inter-government issues. The government parties, on the other hand, focus on the possibilities of long-termity, predictability and minor play on political issues. It has been a long time since there has been such a lively political debate as the last year. Everyone is talking about Soria Moria and the majority government, a situation that the previous government could only dream of: nobody talked about the Sem Declaration, but only about the chaos and the game in Stortinget. This has been realised by the previous government parties. The same is true of the Progress Party. But unlike in Sweden, where the Right and the Centre parties spoke before the election and achieved a majority in the parliament, it is highly uncertain who will form a majority with which of the bourgeois parties in the next election. But the goal, both for the former government parties and the Progress Party, is clear. It's forming a majority government that gets its policy implemented, as today's government does. I find it strange, therefore, that the same parties only focus negatively on the majority government. The majority of the population chose the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party in the Grand Election one year ago, a majority focusing on the values of justice, equal opportunities for all, regardless of social status, and solidarity, a majority that, through this value base, would reverse the social development that the Right- predominant government stood for, and that would create predictability and long-termity in politics. There are great expectations of the majority government! Both opposition and residents require immediate results. It is important to stress that the Government has four years to deliver results. Some results are coming quickly, others are coming later. It's the advantage of a majority government that there's room for also working long-term. What we can see, however, is that social development is on the right track in relation to what the majority in Norway wants. Education is the way out of poverty, says Nelson Mandela. South Africa is a developing country with great poverty. Norway, on the other hand, is a rich country whose poverty should be history. But it's not. Differences in society have increased. Removing poverty and developing Norway as a knowledge nation are two of the most important tasks we have. The basic objective of this work is to provide all equal opportunities for education, for work, for health care, regardless of social status. That is why we have stopped the privatisation of schools. Instead, we give priority to developing the common school. Therefore, we are highly committed to adult education, to labour market measures and to the organisation of health, care and social services, which are intended to give people the opportunity to be at work. The government has been sitting for one year. There are three years left. The voters have already seen after the first year that the choice makes a difference. They will see even more of it in the coming years, when the majority government continues to implement its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1066	Finally, I must say that it is not the opposition that has created the chaos of the Government. The government has done well on its own. Today, we are debating a census that contained many beautiful and non-binding formulations, but very little substance in terms of the great power challenge we face in this country. At Mongstad in Hordaland, gas power generation can be combined with industrial activities in a thermal power plant providing formidable 80 pst. energy use. The NVE has given a convincing positive concession, which is recently complemented by a recommendation on a larger pipe diameter on the gas pipeline between Kollsnes and Mongstad, and a link for other industry-related activities. The SFT has, quite incomprehensiblely, not recommended the emission request, despite the fact that they also have to know that if the gas is not used on Mongstad, yes, it is exported to the continent. So the global CO2 image is going to be the exact same thing. This is ostrich policy. At the same time, the Mongstad Energy Agency is the most important industrial project on land for many years in Hordaland. Development will not only ensure the nearly 700 jobs in the plant, but several thousand jobs in the Bergens region and in the West. The pipeline, which is now recommended in the NVE concession, allows modern and beloved industrial bets both in Slövåg and in the Luteland in Sogn and Fjordane. We see this in the Right as very positive, and we note that we have strong support from the LO and the NHO. A modern plant in Mongstad will also provide the basis for the future establishment of a CO2 capture plant, which in turn will be able to supply the North Sea oil fields with CO2 as pressure support and thus generate additional extraction from the oil fields. A new power source in the Bergens region will provide loving power subsidies, thus also postponing the realization of a new landscape-damaging power line through Hardanger. We in the Right believe that this together gives many, heavy reasons why the Government now has to approve Statoil's plans before their contractual partners cancel the agreement. It's already high time. But then we see that despite the fact that this is an environmental project that would be supported in the EU, the Government is reluctant. Earlier this evening, we once again received only vague hints from the Minister for the Environment. Both Statoil and the population of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane are now entitled to an answer. This matter simply does not tolerate this government's nagging and indecision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1090	The government of Stoltenberg changes Norway. It's a new course. We see it all over the line. We're following up on what we've promised to spend the big money on the big problems. One of the areas in which we have a lot of problems is transportation. The previous government left big, undone tasks there. It was claimed today by several Right-wing representatives that they were not able to do anything in particular because they had to get speed on the Norwegian economy. But if the economy really was one of the main priorities, it would be thought that transportation had become a higher priority. Everyone knows that a good rail, sea and road network is a prerequisite for the success of Norwegian business. The right is also trying today to call its money gifts the country's richest for starting aid to the Norwegian economy. However, the main reason why Norway is doing well is that the world economy is doing well, and the tax law policy of the Right is and was nothing but a mark of who they think is the most important: the richest. While the previous government prided itself on international economic activity, this government is paving the way for sustainable and healthy growth in the Norwegian economy. When, in the last period, we had a battle effort on transportation through NTP, the message from Bondevik II was that this was too ambitious. I hear today that the Right has now come up with different ideas and that they are going to have a road fund, and that, according to the representative of Greece, they are dissatisfied with their own government's efforts in this area. I agree with the representative of Greece when he says that we waste too many Norwegian hours working in motor vehicles, although I do not especially cry that the Right and Greece do not get full pay for their going home to Drammen. But the difference is that when we have the power, we do something about it. The problem is that if we were to follow the plan set up by the previous government, we would have to wait even longer before we got a real railway between Oslo and Drammen and Helleland. This government had to spend a lot of its extra funds to keep the work on the west corridor going. In fact, the right, which for some reason has got a reputation for being a ‘good deal with money’, had helped to spread funds thinly across the country for starting transport projects, but in their usual short-term thinking they had not made sure that there was money for the continuation. And then I have to ask myself in the end: if, in the last period, both the Right Party and the Advance Party, when they had power, wanted to bet on transportation, was it the Christian People's Party or was it the Left that put the brakes on? Or is the truth that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party really have the will to give priority to transportation in the choice between it and tax relief to the richest? I think I'll hold a button on the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1103	I have today been sitting and listening to approx. 60 articles and more than 50 lines. Together, there will be over ten hours of words, words, and words. We've got a description of our country that's black and white, where representatives from the government parties color the country in clear and pure red and green colors, while the opposition colors it all in black. But where is it going to be by the visions? Where are the big and important questions going? What do we want our country to look like in 2020 or 2030? This is how we could ask questions about questions and try together to find some good answers. Here in this room we are 169 adults and reasonable women and men who will all do the best for the nation of Norway. It's probably utopian to think that we could get together and find the best solutions for our children and grandchildren, but think if we could one day do that! I think we could get a lot more effect out of each of the heads we grant through this hall, if we did that. But we're more concerned with clamping bone hooks on our political opponents, and in addition, suspecting the opposition to all that the Government and the majority of the Storing are doing. There's a lot of sense gathered in this room, and if we spent the time finding the best solutions and implementing them, we would have had a better society today – I think. But believing in this is well and well becomes a utopia – unfortunately. In the real world today, we have a majority government based on three parties that will, of course, do the best for our country. Rolf Jacobsen, the dictator, says it so eloquently: our country is far, and most of it is north. This has been taken inwards by the Government and is spending considerable money on the north, part of the country of opportunity. And I'm really happy about that. We strengthen the municipal economy, so that Kommune-Norway can provide the welfare services that citizens need. This has meant that in Lyngen we can strengthen kindergartens and primary schools and make new and modern approaches in the field of business development.We strengthen transport in the broadest sense – from county roads to broadband – and this is going to happen in the whole country. It has become much cheaper to fly in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, and we have implemented a reduced employer's fee. We have taken some steps so that Hurtigruta can be the engine of the Nordic travel life.We are betting on vibrant small communities and new and modern competences. We can never compete on price, but we can compete on competence, quality and delivery skills. The northern regions are therefore at the top of the agenda – with us at the rudder. Here we'll see some bets in the future that in a historical perspective will be unique. For the community, the districts and the northern regions, the red-green government is already a blessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1134	In his speech in today's debate, the representative Erna Solberg said that the policy must be linked. She's right about that. However, it was not linked in the previous period when the ambitions for a better school were to be realised while at the same time improving the efficiency of municipalities and privatising services. The economy in the municipalities was so strenuous that cuts in all services were necessary in order to balance the accounts. In my home municipality, this led to the brutal disappearance of 20 teaching positions. There was also no possibility of physically facilitating new pedagogical methods. Rather, there was financial resources for adequate special pedagogical measures. The youth classes received 30 students each in buildings that screamed after upgrading and upgrading. In such a situation, visions of a better school will be just empty words on power point presentations and no reality in school everyday life. A good school costs money. There is a link between resource use and quality in school. It is therefore so gratifying that a strong and healthy community economy is an important foundation for a good welfare society. Because that's how it is. Not least, it is important to be able to carry out the promise of knowledge in line with the intentions. School owners must be able to implement what we all agree on. The representative Anders Anundsen said that he was not convinced that the improved municipal economy benefits the schools. Then I can reassure the representative that at least in my home municipality it's like this. Never has school spending been greater than in the 2007–2010 economic plan proposal. There will be more teaching positions, school buildings will be upgraded, and new pedagogical methods will be used to get a better school with a focus on knowledge and being a good social learning venue. This is also the case in the neighbouring municipality, which has had to deal with difficult school closure debates. The focus is shifted from cut-off debates to discussions on quality in school. I am very pleased with that. That's how I think it's in many municipalities. I have great confidence that the municipalities as school owners will follow up the efforts we all want at school. I'm an optimist in terms of the development of the common school in the years to come. The basis that is now being laid will be to develop the knowledge society we depend on whether we will continue to have a welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1147	Initially, I would say that I'm a little surprised that a majority government spends so much time, energy and words on the previous government. But we might take that as a compliment. I would like to start by saying that I am satisfied with what I hear from managed budget leaks in terms of the wish for goods from road to track, and to create more train departures on certain sections. This, of course, is supported by the Left, and we are pleased that the Government is continuing the important work of the previous government, starting with increased efforts on public transport. For the Left, it is also important that public transport should be accessible to all, regardless of its function. New Lysaker station, which becomes one of Norway’s most important traffic hubs, will unfortunately not be available to all. Lightweight station was planned on a curve, which makes it problematic for some passengers to get off and on the train. The fact that the Railway Agency has avoided hearing the demands of political leadership on universal design and organisation requirements for all users is critical and calls into question the confidence that we, as politicians, should have in the management of the Railway Agency. I have recently been assured that the safety of the Lysaker station is being ensured, among other things. by mounting an additional safety shaker below the platform edge. However, there is a big difference between ensuring safety and making everyone available, and unfortunately, the latter is still not much. A law that can ensure equality between people with disabilities and rules on deadlines for universal design have been completed through the Syse Committee. The Left believes that the Government must take seriously the rights of disabled people and put this law into practice. It is therefore outrageous that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in the evening post two days ago warned that he is in practice postponing the legislative work on universal design. I can support him in putting down a sample to sew the different anti-discrimination laws together into one law. This cannot, however, be an argument for postponing the specific legislative proposal on anti-discrimination against people with disabilities that ensures universal design also in the field of public transport, ICT and transport. This can actually be done today if you follow the minority in the Syse Committee. Universal organization needs to be more than festive speech. Finally, the left will be a champion of a law against discrimination covering all areas of society, so that we also have access to everyone in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1162	We've heard the opposition criticise the government for being weak and for continuing where the previous one failed. But this government has moved on more funds than hardly any government has done in its first year. At the same time, the opposition says they don't think the government's policy holds up. But the opposition cannot both criticize the Government for doing the same thing as they did in the previous period, when they had a majority on the Storting, and at the same time be disappointed with the government's policy. In that case, the bourgeois are disappointed in themselves. Of course, Norwegian policy has changed course in the last year. It's just looking at the main priorities that are being made. In the four years that the bourgeois had a majority on the Stortinget, there was no purpose it was put on as strongly as tax relief. No policy areas were invested more strongly in crowns and ears. In this four-year period, welfare is given priority first, in the form of strong commitment to hospitals, care and schools. It's the posts that are being changed most through our policies. At the same time, we know that in the last period they got the lowest income at least tax relief, and those with the highest income got the most tax relief. In this period, it's the other way around. Of course, exceptions can be found, but the mean figures are clear. So the new majority has abandoned the most comprehensive priority of the previous government, namely billions for tax relief, and is now spending money for a completely different purpose. It's not just a new course. That's the definition of a new course. So the opposition would say that we need change. But we are the change. This year, 20,000 more patients receive treatment than the previous government provided. In the somatic environment, waiting time goes down. In children and young people with mental illness, waiting time is reduced. Social health inequalities are reduced by removing the abstinences of the citizens introduced and by reducing the abstinences of the citizens. When we talk about community, it means that we focus on common welfare schemes such as health, care and education. But community means even more. Since I came into the Storting last fall, I have experienced a lot, seen a lot, met many people who have a story to tell. As a member of the Health and Care Committee, I have met people who remind us that a step forward is not always a step forward – when you stand on the edge of a trip. There's so much talk about all of them. They are the addicts. The – minorities. The poor. They – those who are not like us. We need each other – everyone. We'll talk about us, not about us and them. Community solutions are about translating this into practical policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1200	As an alternate, it's not as often as I get the opportunity to stand on this pulpit. The last time I stood here, there was an SV in opposition, and I was talking about the condition of the local economy under the previous government. Today SV is in government, and I still want to talk about local economy. In my view, there are a few things that mean more to everyday life to people than the transfers the municipalities get from the state. I am pleased that the red-green government gave the municipality economy on the 2006 budget. I am also pleased that tomorrow we will have a government budget that will, after all, continue with the step-up plan for the local economy. It's gonna take a lot of pain. It takes a long time to make sure that the delays that many municipalities are struggling with. In many places, the money has now agreed to prevent drastic cuts in welfare. We need more, much more. More people are needed, in kindergartens, in schools, in cultural schools, and in care and care. The government signal is very new. In addition, there is a great deal of resources needed to take back the long lag in the maintenance of municipal buildings and roads. There is also a need for more new constructions, and also here the signal is good – for new investment grants to care establishments that are in the care notification. The system of interest-free loans to school buildings has led to many new schools, but there are still too many school buildings that offer our young unworthy conditions. I hope that this system will continue and expand. I'm overconfident that people around the country notice that we have a red-green government. I think the impact of the local economy is decisive for the vitalization of local democracy, and I believe it is necessary to build confidence in us politicians. If I have some more time, I want to talk a little bit about energy and the environment. Yesterday, the Low Emissions Selection presented the list of measures that could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by two thirds by 2050. I'm happy and proud that the Soria Moria statement contains eight out of 13 concrete points, and that the government is doing well. I represent Mora and Romesdal, which according to many are approaching the great power crisis. I am proud that the Swedish government will be able to implement the many small and large measures that are needed to ensure that people are fed into the houses without us going on chords with the future. SV has stretched out one hand when it is necessary to advance the purification of CO2. Together with the other government parties, we are now launching a major effort on energy saving and renewable energy sources. I hope that our county, with the background of the special situation we're facing, can be a pilot for this venture. People out there are ready to do their part of the job, but we're the ones who have to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1218	The government of Stoltenberg has ruled for one year. One year – where a new political course is set, based on the political principles set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. And we deliver! Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg underlined this in his speech today – the Community solutions have replaced the privatisation in almost all the areas of society that Bondevik II stood for. "It's not my name: it's me, it's me, it's us." That's how the poet Halldis Moren Vesaas formulated it so nicely. Because it is in recognition of this ‘we’ that this government will build the country — the whole country. Not least we've seen this in Regeninga's strong North Sea effort. Addressed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, the government has turned the Norway map on its head. There is now a general recognition that the northern regions will be the strategically most important and probably the most valuable region — not only in the country but perhaps throughout Europe. That is why it was a very important milestone when the Northern Region management plan was presented in spring. There was a plan that balanced in an excellent way the consideration of the vulnerable and rich natural resources in the north, with the value creation to be achieved through the petroleum sector. The government has also set in motion a very important work on a broad review of the fisheries policy, starting with the fact that the huge fishing resources in off-shore marine areas are our common property and the coast's main economic pathway. I have noticed with some amazement that special representatives of the Right and the Advance Party claim that with the management plan, the Government has failed North Norway with the restrictions imposed on the petroleum industry. Such claims are in stark contrast to the petroleum-nutrited sea level. Wherever I have moved to meet the operators in the north, the message has been clear: the petroleum industry is well satisfied with the framework conditions it has received. But north-eastern politics is not just oil and gas; the government has stressed the importance of the broad people to the people-cooperation in the north. And today we got a very happy message: U.D. has set 10 million. to cultural cooperation in the northern regions of the 2007 budget. There is a stake that goes right into the realization of the cultural promise of the Government. There is already considerable cross-border cooperation in the north, both between exciting professional artistic environments and institutions and between voluntary cultural actors. The U.D. grants have provided an even better platform for such cooperation. I would also like to stress that this cooperation respects the multicultural perspective by including different peoples and cultures that exist in the north. I am aware that it can be a heavy blow to the chest of Amundsen, but the government has decided that 2008 should be a year of cultural diversity. It can give us the opportunity – on a broad basis and across the country – to make visible the stories, life stories and voices that we have seen far too little to express through artistic expressions. This government is delivering! We deliver on behalf of the community. We got a job through the election last autumn. It will be shown tomorrow and until 2009 that we are taking the mission seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1247	I listened with interest to the speech of the throne and to the post of the councillor Bjørnøy to look at the government's environmental effort. When the new government arrived, I had a hope that SV would be an environmental guarantor, but the hope disappeared quickly. SV should be a guarantor against gas power plants. Then they could suddenly accept gas power plants with CO2 cleaning from day one, and now they are supporting gas power plants without CO2 handling. We also remember what happened to the management plan and the green certificates. The environmental credibility of the Government and of SV is unfortunately thin. In winter, we may be at risk of a power crisis with expensive power. We have to be able to make a positive use of this, because now we have a unique opportunity to invest in and develop new renewable energy. We will then have more energy carriers and more flexibility in the energy market. But if we are to make it, there is a need for good support. In the South, the construction of a new combustion plant is at risk, because we have too high charges for supply and unforeseeable support schemes. The irony is that driving this garbage to Sweden may be more profitable. This is an example for the government to grasp. The government must ensure stability in the use of instruments and it is precisely necessary to stimulate the construction of such a facility in Kristiansand. With good trash sorting, we'll be able to take advantage of the rest of the garbage for heat and electricity instead of digging it down. It will be environmentally friendly, and it will be a step in the right direction also to resolve the power crisis. The total electricity consumption in Denmark is about 30 TWh, while in Norway we use approx. 120 TWh. In Norway, households are trapped in the electric trap with almost only electricity for heating, while Denmark, for example, uses district heating. This gives Denmark much greater flexibility than Norway, and for the Christian People's Party, it is a goal that we can have more choices and more energy sources. The waste is an energy source that we can use. A ban on landfill has been announced in 2009, and this needs to be clarified. Predictability of infrastructure construction is important. Tomorrow comes the state budget, and the government has spoken out about supporting new renewable energy. But the leaks I have heard about today do not make me particularly optimistic about achieving the production targets for new renewable energy. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that support schemes must be predictable and realistic, and we want to focus on the environment and on future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1270	The fight against poverty and the right to democracy, human rights and development are the biggest challenge facing the world community. The government will strengthen the ability and ability of poor countries to trade, to build democratic institutions and to develop public welfare services. If one is to combat poverty, the right to gainful employment is at the heart of it. Nearly 200 million people were unemployed in 2005. If jobs are not created in developing countries, we will never get rid of poverty. A fair distribution assumes that you have something to distribute. In order to combat poverty, it is essential to promote acceptable working and living conditions, so-called 'decent work', which was established at the ILO Labour Conference in Geneva in June this year. Half of all employees make less than two dollars a day. Very many of these are women. I welcome the Minister for Development's signaling of a stronger gender perspective in development cooperation. The role of the trade union movement is crucial in creating employment and improving working conditions. It is therefore important for the Government to work actively to make the ILO decent work agenda an integral part of the developing countries’ poverty strategy. The main effort for Norwegian assistance is still to be Africa. Africa is not just hunger, natural disasters and civil wars. Many countries have experienced economic growth and positive democratic development. The growing power shortages in Africa and the major challenges in some countries related to the management of petroleum production revenues are areas where Norwegian competence can be particularly useful. The Government’s intention to ‘oil for development’ is to contribute to the reduction of poverty and improved living conditions for the population from the oil and petroleum sectors. Democracy, human and professional rights must be guaranteed. Latin America has experienced increased democratisation in recent years. Behind the new leadership are popular and political movements that need support to succeed in creating more democracy and fairer distribution. Some of the worst violations of human and professional rights occur in middle-income countries in Asia and Latin America. In Colombia, repeated killings and threats are taking place against political opponents and professional trustees. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has signaled a greater bet in Latin America.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1279	The left is busy giving more to those who need it the most. We are currently using a lot of resources to calculate social benefits for social welfare recipients. A government salary may help to free resources to help them out in meaningful activity. The welfare system of the future must have systems that create security and dignity and at the same time result in simplification. Citizen pay could counteract the burden and shame that many people experience is receiving social assistance, and being sent from office to office in the public utility. In addition, the Left wishes a personal development plan for the recipient. I believe that this will be one of several instruments to lift people out of poverty. The pay of the left is also a simplification reform. The professional resources can be used to help people manage themselves. It can be linked to a personal action plan that stimulates activity. This action plan shall be well defined. The individual user must be involved and set a measure of his activity, and it is important that this does not imply wage work. At the same time, we have to recognise that not everyone can participate in the same line of work. Some will always be outside for different reasons. They must also have a decent income. It remains to be seen whether the Government intends to follow up the visions of the Soria Moria statement with money, or whether this is just an adventure. As you know, the government is to eliminate poverty during this period. People with low incomes have poorer health in general and poorer teeth. The left wants to seal this social health inequality and will introduce public dental care for everyone in the long term and start with the weakest in society. There are many challenges ahead in the social sector. The great reform of the NAV, for which the Left was a driving force in the previous government, must be secured enough resources. The Delete Treatment of the Sick Pay Scheme and the IA Agreement will follow up on the Left. We have a high employment rate in Norway, and with a high level of employment, we will also have a higher health insurance cost. The alternative is for more people to be insured. It is difficult to see this logic for a government that goes so strongly into the working line. Isn't the whole point that chronically ill and elderly people have more pain and therefore also want more sick days? Here lies the great challenge in the future. We must have a working life that not only takes into account the freshest of us, but also allows for those who have disabilities, physical wear or chronic diseases. We need a working life with flexible schemes that allow people who want to go to work to get there. A society can be measured by how it takes care of its weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1290	In Norway, we have had an economic opportunity to build a welfare society and establish a welfare state that provides material and social protection to all citizens. Maintaining this welfare state requires that we continue to be willing to allow a greater share of society’s value creation to take place in the public welfare sector, and that we give priority to increasing common consumption rather than increasing private consumption. It is not reasonable at all to allow private operators to make profit from the sale of basic welfare services that are initially financed by the common funds. Therefore, today’s government opted for the major tasks to be solved through Community solutions. We will strengthen public responsibility in key welfare tasks such as health, care and education. Unlike large sections of the opposition, we do not blindly rely on market forces to do what is best for society's weakest. In this debate there has been a lot of talk about the opposition, with the Progress Party at the head, not being able to see the change in course that today's government promised in the election campaign. Well, they do, because I am quite convinced that the unemployed who escaped the proposed cut of over 1 billion kroner in the daily allowance scheme noticed the price change. I am also quite sure that the country's consumers of collective means of transport are grateful to let go of the progress party's cut of over 2 billion kroner for public transport. We want to lift people out of poverty, not push them further down by almost charging poverty a fee, as the previous government did. When you look at last year's draft budget from the Progress Party, it is quite obvious that the red-green government stands for a completely different course – a new course. I'm proud of the government's work so far. In the municipalities, the swimmers notice that the pools are being filled up. The students notice that the schools are being cleaned up, and the elderly notice that care for the elderly is being cleaned up. I learned once that if there's a difference between what one says and what one does, that's what one does, that counts. I do not doubt for a second that people notice that we have received a new majority and a marked change in course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1307	‘In order to increase employment and activity and reduce social benefits, a new comprehensive and user-oriented management of labour and welfare is established. By 2010 local NAV offices will be established in all the municipalities of the country;’;» It's called in the throne. During these days, the NAV Office will be opened in the 25 pilot municipalities. Then one goes further with NAV establishment in over 100 municipalities next year. Within three years, the whole country shall be covered and the NAV reform implemented. Many municipalities have started their way through service offices where Aetat and the social security centre have also taken place together with municipal services. But this has been largely a community of offices and not integrated services to users. Nevertheless, many have gained experience from cooperation between the State and municipal welfare services. The feedback we have received is very positive. The impression I have left after several visits around the country is that both users and employees believe that this is the right way to go. We have adopted the legal basis for establishing the NAV cooperation between the State and the municipality. In the autumn, the government will present the paper on work, well-being and inclusion which will give us the opportunity to discuss how to organise services within NAV. I look forward, not least, to bringing together the services and benefits of the working and social security budget, so that the measures we offer can be adapted to the needs of users more than the need for users to be pushed into one of today's rules or schemes. The NAV office in all municipalities is called in the census. That's what we in the Center Party are happy for. The law opens up intercommunal solutions, and I have registered that many people are afraid that smaller municipalities will remain standing without the NAV office. In Stortinget's treatment of the NAV Act, we were clear that each municipality should have its NAV office. Based on the desire to provide high-quality services available, we underlined the importance of establishing welfare offices in all municipalities. It is also important that the local NAV Office be able to meet users with competence in the very wide range of NAV services. It's not enough with a face behind a counter. The Agency shall be able to meet users with knowledge and means of assistance and with decision-making powers to make use of appropriate measures adapted to individual needs and opportunities. We have adopted the NAV reform to improve the well-being of the community. I note that there is some fear that the skills currently available in the social security and employment offices will be replaced by a telephone number or an Internet address for a centralised service unit. It must not be allowed to become reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1325	It was in Aust-Agder in 1995 that the idea of free school books first arose. At the 1996 national meeting, the Workers' Party adopted this important case, but, as is well known, the Workers' Party lost the 1997 election to the Centre parties, and thus the case was put to death. When Jens Stoltenberg became Prime Minister in 2000, the Labour Party started with a loan arrangement, but this was the first Kristin Clemet and Right removed when they won the election in 2001. Today, the red-green government has a majority in Stortinget, and during this big time, all school books will be free. The Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to education. In order for this right to be effective, education must be free of charge. The red-green government will grant 373 million. kr to set up the free school books scheme. We also want to introduce a scholarship to students who need to buy equipment. In three years, Norway will finally have free schoolbooks. The centre parties and right-hand parties have done everything they can to prevent all students from getting free school books. That's why I think it's on the verge of rudeness when the Progress Party after four years in position and four years of counterworking free school books now, when they're in opposition suddenly becomes for free school books. This is progressing party populism at its worst, but I think most people understand that there is little credibility behind that proposal. It is not often that the class struggle and the Red Youth are satisfied with a government. But to quote the leader of the Red Youth, Mimir Kristjansson, wrote yesterday, "we would like to take a piece of cake with Øystein Djupedal" and the red-green government today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1336	Yesterday, the lavatuitous selection presented its setting. The low emission selection was set down by the previous Bondevik government to present a plan to reduce national emissions by 50–80 pst. by 2050. And it's a pleasure to see the good and thorough work that has been done. The previous government has higher targets when you lower the selection. Now the Christian People's Party requires this to be followed up by the Stoltenberg government with equally clear national targets. There should and should be no doubt that Norway is willing to take on its legitimate share of global emissions reductions. The latest main report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that developments, among others. When it comes to temperature, sea level, ice thickness, and precipitation collecting, an image of a globe is produced during heating. The UN concludes that there is new and stronger evidence that human activity is the main cause of the global warming we have seen in the last 50 years. We have also received information that shows that developments, especially in polar regions, are moving faster and have more serious consequences than we had previously believed. The climate problem is the biggest environmental challenge facing the world community. Solving this problem will require a lot of us both nationally and internationally. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants the Government to bring its own big message to follow up the important work of the Lav Emissions Selection. The Bondevik government provided many concrete and necessary measures, such as the introduction of the quota system, agreement with the process industry, the prohibition of landfilling, the prohibition of HFC/PFC gases and historical investments in new renewable energy sources and CO2 treatment as some examples. Much the opposite is true of today's government's failure with green certificates. Today, the Government has launched its alternative to the green certificates. The result is that the government has done the trick of getting almost rid of both the environmental movement and the energy industry. When it comes to international climate work, we know that the Kyoto Protocol is only a first step on the road. The key issue now is what kind of climate regime we are going to have after the first period of the protocol to be concluded in 2012. The Christian People's Party will have a more global and ambitious climate regime after 2012. In this work Norway must still be a driver and a transitory country. If we are to be trusted internationally, we must also do a long-term and good job at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1352	Several times during the last year I have heard the opposition say that the government does not deliver and break promises. This has become a fixed reference, which is repeated to the boring. This does not lead to correctness. There are many examples that the government's policy works, that they deliver what they have told them to deliver, and that they follow up the statement of Soria Moria. I will now touch one field of this. I allow myself to quote from the Soria Moria statement: ‘Laws, legislation and agreements between the social partners have a major impact on the living conditions and working opportunities of workers. Norway has a long tradition of good cooperation between the social partners and public authorities on the basis of a well-functioning working life. This is what it's important to build on. Therefore, we will reverse the deterioration in the protection of workers adopted in the previous ageing period.» The government has followed up on what was agreed in the Soria Moria Declaration. At an early stage of this period, the Government announced that they wished to improve the protection of workers in a new work environment law. This was absolutely necessary, and it should just be missing. A red-green government can never agree to weaken employees' interests. A strong and good work environment law is alpha and omega to protect employees' interests. Even employers will benefit from a good regulatory environment. The opening of access to increased use of temporary employment would be disastrous for those affected by it. It is a well-known case that young settlers would have significant difficulties in getting a loan, as they did not have a regular job. This would in turn lead to many young people having serious problems getting into the housing market. This could not the red-green government sit passive and look at. Therefore, action and price change were of great importance in this case. It is good that the previous government wanted more people to be able to get into the labour market. I share the wish for more people to enter the labour market. The red-green government also shares that view, and our answer to that is that more people will have the opportunity to work on a permanent basis. This is something the Government is working very actively on. It's per. today 58 300 people without work. It's been a very long time since unemployment has been so low, so it's probably raised above any doubt that the government's policy is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1371	The government has announced a reform of the middle level of the Norwegian administration. The reform was first called regional reform, but has now been called administrative reform. We don't know so much about what the government wants with the new level yet, but the Minister of State has revealed that there will be at least ten of the new regions. Public Norway manages more than 300 billion dollars a year. Today's counties only manage 6 pst. of these. We therefore agree with the government parties that the intermediate level needs a reform, but not a geographical reform. In the Left, we would rather talk about the new state, what authority the intermediate level should have, what resources it should be over, how this level should be financed and what tasks it should be. The left will also strengthen local democracy and the municipalities as the primary service provider. Larger regions, in the view of the Left, will only create even greater distances from people. Today’s county and municipality boundaries can be adjusted, but there are, above all, more powers, more tasks and more money that are the answer – and not a larger geographical area of administration. Therefore, the call for the left is to state the dream of the major regions and rather to implement a smaller but more important reform based on today's state. The left considers that a level of administration between municipalities and countries is necessary. And we think it's important that a heavy welfare task is at the middle level. The left therefore believes that hospitals must be returned to the counties. The government of the previous Stoltenberg government of hospitals has proved to be poorly successful, both in terms of health policy and not least in terms of governance, such as Left and, among others. The center party and SV warned against in their time. People feel that they have lost control and do not know who to put in charge. It is therefore necessary to restore governance to a directly elected level. The reform of the left is thus the ‘new state’ – a continuation of the successful attempt at unity in More and Romesdal. This means that the county office is reduced to a purely control and representation body on behalf of the State, while all tasks beyond that are subject to the county council. In this way, the reform of the new state will also be an important part of the Left’s project for a simpler Norway. The inhabitants can look at one door instead of a conglomerate of swing doors. Furthermore, coordination between the counties and the counties will result in significant administrative savings. The new counties will be responsible for economic development, transport, culture, health and secondary schools in the Left Reform. Within these tasks, new boundaries need to be raised between levels, so as to decentralise as much as possible to primary municipalities and counties, but also to clarify the tasks of the country. The left sees that we may be able to get fewer counties and municipalities than we are today, but strongly opposes the fact that new geographical divisions will take place after dictates from above – this must be based on volunteering. The municipalities and the new counties shall not be State branches but an independent level of political administration. The left will therefore reject A4 solutions that are forced on the population without democratic anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1390	I record that the Government says it should base the so-called rule of action on its budgetary policy. What is the rule of action? Yes, a regular calculation for the use of oil money. Or, word-right: phase-in of petroleum revenues in line with the expected real return of the State pension fund — Foreign. In wisdom, wise heads have calculated this return to 4 pst. In other words, the government believes it makes sense to use 4 pst. by a rapidly growing fund to pay current expenditure on the State budget. Thus, responsible financial policies do not depend on the sectors in which the money is spent, whether there is free capacity where the money is used, whether the money is used for operations or investments, or whether the money is used in Norway or abroad. Responsibility is in any case 4 pst. returns. If that means $10, 20, 50 or 100 billion is completely irrelevant. The rule of action is basically nothing but the old-fashioned communist plan economy. Norway is not the only country in the world with its own oil fund. The State of Alaska of the United States established in 1976 a similar fund, a fund that per The population is the size of ours. However, the differences in the management and use of the returns are very large. The state of Alaska has had, on average, a real return on twice what Norway has achieved in the last ten years, not least because Alaska has chosen to invest large parts of its fund in property. Let's imagine that Norway had used Alaska's investment strategy, and that the return had become similar high. Then the rule of action would be 8 p.m., and according to the government's logic, twice as much money would be spent on the state budget, but paradoxically at the same time you would be just as financially responsible. Pretty funny. It is worrying that the Government does not have a more thoughtful view of the use of oil money. Obviously, the strategy is: think of a number conceived by chance, spread it around, stand stubbornly on that particular number, be condescending to anyone who has a different view, label these as irresponsible, yes almost unintelligent. Do not take full account of short-term trends or the availability of free capacity, do not consider whether the money is used for consumption or investment. Do not think about where the money is spent, and for all reasons – calculate the effect of spending money in Norway and abroad in exactly the same way. The rule of action clearly demonstrates that the politicians have collectively abdicated in fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1406	The left is concerned about developments in the hospital sector. There is quite a lot of attention on the large and increasing deficits in hospitals. At the end of the year, it will collect the deficit at NOK 7.5 billion. But it costs to treat patients. And when the focus and demand is that hospitals treat more patients, this naturally means that the costs increase, and consequently the deficit increases. Those who believe that several patients can reduce the cost of hospitals have, in my view, understood little. Of course, hospitals can become more effective, but one cannot help but say that the treatment of several patients means increasing expenses. It's not a store to run hospitals. Personally, I have high expectations for the submission of the national health plan. It is disappointing if the Government cannot present a plan for the functions of local hospitals. It should be a key document, and now we know that this important question will be postponed. Now it's even longer before we get a clarification on this question. And what happens in the meantime to the local hospitals that are the closure threat? It's just getting bigger and bigger. Local hospitals need to know what kind of functions they should have. Local hospitals cannot be just walls and ceilings; they must have a clear content. And in particular, the emergency function has to be clarified. A better interaction between local hospitals and community health services is needed. In order to function as a coherent chain of treatment, the parties must be aware of their roles. Here it is intentional, but a little substance. If you can't determine the contents of the local hospitals, you've played an important card again. To dispose of your own dwelling and could live in it as long as possible is too many of the most important aspects of old age. That gives security, and with that recognition, we in the Left believe that one has to bet more on the fact that older people and everyone who needs care can stay home for as long as possible. To achieve this, we need to re-prioritize some measures and find new solutions in the future. I noticed that the Prime Minister today ranked the care of the elderly as the most important focus area in the future, and we in the Left are very pleased about that. But how are the challenges to be met? The care message has a thorough review of the challenges. But I just have to say that it's little new for us to read in the message when it comes to solutions. Older people mean several sick elderly people, more elderly people with dementia, more elderly people with anxiety, etc. The care message has many plans, but largely lacks the willingness to prioritize. If we are to receive a better health care, we need a safer care provision in the future. We need to get enough staff to ensure that older people get a decent old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1423	Several of the debaters today have been concerned with the importance of investing in roads, both in maintenance and in investment in the road network. In the course of the debate, many have spoken about business and to facilitate both existing business and start-ups. In this country, the construction of new roads is considered a budget expenditure. Our neighbouring countries see the value and coherence of business and road construction, and resolve this by considering road construction as a state-funded investment. They thus avoid imposing increased transport costs and tolls on their business life. Our Nordic neighbouring countries have invested funds, even borrowed funds, over several decades, in a comprehensive and efficient network of motorways and roads. While tolls in the past were a local supplement for pushing new road projects, tolls today are almost a prerequisite for getting at all the construction and maintenance of the road network. As the country's share is reduced as tolls increase, tolls do not increase. The state shifts its responsibilities according to the law over to the users, despite the fact that we are the country that has the best financial means to implement the necessary projects. It is my wish that the Government open its eyes to the significant documentation available on the profitability of intensive road activity and demonstrate its willingness to invest in a long-term road development effort by investing a much larger proportion of our wealth in domestic infrastructure. In that case, the implementation of the investment plan in the national transport plan may be a start, but it actually requires much more if you are serious, and not least that there is a willingness to facilitate business, not only in parts of the country, but throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1434	In the debate, several representatives have spoken extensively about improving the services of municipalities. Several have also talked about the need to finance these services. There will be a lot of black and white on local economy before and after the government change. But as rapporteur in a minimum income municipality in Eastfold, I also see that we have had real growth in the municipality's incomes even during the previous period. Of course, we would have wanted more, but we haven't starved. We've actually had a growth of almost 7 pst. average over the last four years. Some municipalities managed to get full child care coverage, build schools and take care of the elderly. But we were also on a savings floor to improve the Norwegian economy. Business growth was well facilitated, and we now see the result of that growth. Locally, we got a lot of new businesses, we got more in work, and the growth continues. Unemployment continues to decline. It may not have been so stupid to secure the economic foundation first. Now we can rejoice that the tax revenue of the municipalities is also increasing. That's where we're growing. If we just keep it in the future, it'll be fine. Because we need more, and we don't just get to add. We're also going to carry more in a health pay scheme, we're going to get less discretionary means, we're going to increase interest rates and we're going to increase the price of power. Not least, we get older people, and we see that psychiatry too needs more. It was good that the government brought increased revenue this year. In addition, increasing tax revenue is due to policies not only based on last year's policy and government. But the municipalities do not live for long by one good year. We need stable growth to meet older people's waves and other demands. The exciting thing now is not what we get in the framework grant tomorrow, but what we get to keep from the tax growth. Kommune-Norge has many challenges. For the Christian People's Party, it's about growth, knowledge and care for most people. Now the tax revenue comes after the previous government, and it would have been nice to keep it. If we are to meet the challenges, the municipalities must have income. We also need to avoid the state charging us with new expenses, such as sickness, increased interest rates, high electricity prices or tasks that it does not follow. It's not just about money, it's about opportunities. We're promised broadband, but what is it? In the countryside we get ADSL, the cities get fiber that's a hundred times stronger. Indeed, the building’s business needs the same online supply as the city’s business. They in the countryside should also have contact with the rest of the world to run their business. When young students come back from study places, we have little to offer when it comes to online.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1451	The defence has been under conversion for a number of years, which, in the view of the Progress Party, has gone too fast, and the military professional has been significantly forgotten. The most important thing has been to reach the reduction target, which has been to reduce the number of people by 5000, by 2 billion kroner per year. years of operation and 2 million disposed of. m2 building. It goes without saying that when all of this is going to happen in a few years, it's causing some anxiety. I do not disagree that the defence must be converted, but to convert to a budget instead of having a budget that takes care of the interests and tasks that we impose on the defence is wrong – totally wrong. There is no doubt that both the previous government and today's red-green have a defence budget that makes the defense unable to carry out the work we are imposing on it. We probably remember all the horror stories we've heard in recent years about scarce funds for example. the purchase of fuel for our ships and aircraft, with the result that they were not used. There has been a lack of money to have exercises, and military equipment is stored out in any kind of weather all year to save rent, a rent to yourself. The buildings are fully paid, but the equipment is out. Understand the one who can. There is broad consensus, fortunately, that our northern regions should be strengthened. This is the Advance Party pleased, but at the same time things happen that may seem very strange. Here you can mention that you have stowed away a lot of Leopard tanks, and replaced them with normal Mercedes-Benz Groundcars. I don't quite understand why, and I have asked questions in Stortinget's Question Time about this. The response from the Council of State included: that Geländewagen was more suitable in international missions. That's probably true, but I thought when you say you're going to bet on our northern regions, it means, not that we're going to be a peace stabiliser out there. Last but not least, that is the proposal on Sudan. There I believe we have nothing to do. If it turns out that we have something to do there, I definitely believe that we have neither equipment nor enough crews or are prepared to solve the challenges we will face, such as. child soldiers and for us unknown diseases. The fact that we're going to be part of the peace process is clear to the sun, but we're already in a lot of places. It must be better to gather and be on site for several years, such as: in Afghanistan. Even if we've had a change in the defense, the challenges are in line. We have, and sheep, new vessels that need funds. We're waiting for our new helicopter, NH-90, we need new cargo planes to replace Hercules, we need new fighter planes to replace F-16, we need new radar systems, we need to replace a lot of our military equipment. Yeah, that's how I can keep going. At the same time, when we understand – although it may seem that only the Progress Party understands – that there is an imbalance between the defence agreement and the actual expenditure, this must go wrong. If we mean something to say that we're going to have a defense, the government has to grant enough money for us to have a credible defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1467	For us who are concerned with industrial policy, the Prime Minister's speech this morning was disappointing, talking for 20 minutes almost without mentioning industrial policy. The Prime Minister spent a lot of time stressing that the Government is working for everyone, but he said little about how this should be resolved. The Progress Party believes that employment should concentrate mainly on value-creating work. In the future, it may also be that not everyone can expect to be a worker. More and more people may have to be prepared to create their own jobs, become their own employers. It is therefore even more important that we organise so that entrepreneurs and creative people can start their own small businesses themselves. And we have to recognise that small businesses do not necessarily have the same opportunities and resources as they do, to deal with a public bureaucracy and the amount of orders and regulations that only the most extensive have an overview of. Another important point if we are to get more small businesses is that we need a flexible work environment law, for example. with the possibility of temporary employment. Unfortunately, the reversal we saw of the current government in this area is a step in the wrong direction, not only in view of the existence of small businesses, but also in view of employment. Another example of changes in the framework conditions that are very negative for enterprises and perhaps especially small enterprises is the Government’s proposal to once again amend the permit rules. The Progress Party wishes to maintain current legislation, which ensures the necessary flexibility for businesses. Competitive infrastructure, such as: road development and development of quality broadband networks are other examples of important prerequisites for the development and creation of jobs. Infrastructure is not a luxury for business; it is more to be seen as a necessary means of construction. I know what I'm talking about, because I'm the manager of a medium-sized business myself. The experience I have, I wish more people in our red-green government could take part in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1482	The social liberal objective of increased freedom for all involves a struggle for global redistribution of resources. The objective of the Left's foreign policy is a fairer global distribution and a strengthening of human rights and democracy and to promote respect for international law and law. Assistance is needed to help poor countries out of poverty. The left wants a special focus on the fight against HIV/AIDS, and assistance should in particular strengthen the situation, rights, education and health of women. The challenges are great in childbirth and maternal mortality, as well as violence and trafficking problems. UNESCO believes that more than 100 million children do not have access to primary schools. 55 pst. Of these, girls, and two thirds of adult illiterates are women. In civil society, the role of women is crucial. These include: said that in Africa it is women who carry and maintain society. Our aid projects must reflect this in concrete actions. In recent times, we have had budgetary leakages about a significant increase in u-help. However, we are uncertain whether this government is able to increase assistance to 1 pst. of gross national income. The previous government was able to implement a steady increase in aid appropriations, up to 0.97 p.m. of gross national income in 2006. We hope the red-green government will be able to carry out a similar lift. The left agrees that the reform work of the UN must be intensified and that the women's initiative should be focused. However, we react in the way the Minister for Assistance presents his list of demands to get more back on the UN money. The attitude of carrot and whip can help undermine the legitimacy of the United Nations. The left thinks it's premature and a little arrogant, among other things. to demand more Norwegian employees, against providing our UN funds. The left considers that the UN diplomacy works best in cooperation and constructive processes within the UN system, not in the case of unilateral demands from individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1495	The announcement of the future's care plans has finally come to Stortinget. This is a lot of people who've looked forward to, both inside and outside this room. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that our initiative for a new care plan on the content and quality of care for the elderly has now come through this communication, which includes several user groups in the municipal care service. The message contains good facts. The goal and intentions are good. But there are some areas of the plan that I would particularly like to highlight as little concrete, and that have disappointed me. The following areas are concerned: There is a lack of interventions related to the transition of patients between hospitals and municipalities.The quality of services is left entirely to local design. The creation of elderly centres has been mentioned, with no particular focus on the large potential that can actually lie here, if all municipalities had set up such.Ethical committees in hospitals and municipalities to which the Stortinget has previously been very positive have become cooperation between the Government, KS and the professional organisations on training in ethics for the staff, as well as a rather upresis formulation to develop organisational anchoring models. This is too vague and too non-committal. I am also disappointed that a number of important areas are being pushed out in time. I mention someone: A dementia plan comes later in 2007. A new investment grant is announced from 2008. A consultation note on user-led personal assistance comes later. Many of these areas should be integrated into the proposed care plan. People who depend on help have the right to individual offers that safeguard their integrity and dignity. An important piece of care services is family-based care. It shall be suitable for a puzzle game with home-based services, relief services, organised nursing homes and nursing homes, so as to provide comprehensive care according to individual needs. It is important that conditions are arranged so that relatives who want to do so can care for their caring family members. The Christian People’s Party therefore wants the care pay system to be reviewed and strengthened. Finally, I would nevertheless like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Government has so clearly invited to cooperate with the Stortinget on the final design of the care plan. It is important that all parties now cooperate and commit themselves to strengthening the content and quality of municipal care services in the years to come. I look forward with excitement to tomorrow and to the government's first large allocation to care plan 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1546	At a time when it is popular to say that business is going so funny, a time when the statistics show a decline in the number of unemployed, we experience in my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, that the population is falling. This deeply worries me. In my view, industrial workplaces must be the pillars of the community. Safe jobs in industry depend entirely on long-term and sustainable framework conditions. I have said it in this room before, and I repeat it today. I am constantly being contacted by industrial leaders who are doubtful that the framework conditions have changed to a far too much and too often. I do not have any concrete statements about the business environment in my speech earlier today by the Prime Minister. I also record the signals coming from industry, in particular the transport industry, where there is a hint of frustration and despair about the current government's attitude to transferring much of the cost of future road development to industry and to the inhabitants of a large number of toll stations planned throughout the country. Road development is and must be a state responsibility in full. Road users pay more than enough already. Not least there is a strong signal from the fishing boat owners about their problems. This is an industry that has enormous significance for Sogn and Fjordane, both at sea and on land. Reiares are among other things very tense about what results from the structural measures in the fishing fleet. Both Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag and Sogn and Fjordane Shipowners' Association are positive for structuring, because they see this as absolutely necessary. In the same way as the sailors, I also record that the structure selection has split roughly in the middle of its view of structuring. As a result, it is particularly important for the industry what the Government is doing in this matter. In Sogn and Fjordane, there is an income potential of about 700 million. kr per. years in the case of construction of planned small-scale power plants. Amongst others, too many farmers, this would be an additional income that could be decisive for further operations. In my opinion, many small power plants have been stopped by what I would call meaningless environmental requirements. If communities are not allowed to exploit their natural resources, what will local communities live by?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1559	With my background as rapporteur in a district municipality in the last three periods, it is with a certain amazement that representatives of parties from the Bondevik II government today have claimed that there has been a growth in the municipal economy in the same government's working hours. This has been particularly shown in the last two years of the last period. Reality has not appeared to many primary municipalities in the country. Although the statement may have been valid for nominal values, nominal growth is not, as is known, an automatic real increase. Nominal growth must also be seen in the context of an increase or change in the portfolio of tasks. For too many local governments across the country, budget debates have been largely about cuts for several years and, in part, significant cuts. These have been painful processes, and I am afraid that in many municipalities the so-called efficiency processes have had to be run so far that less efficiency has been the answer. I am afraid that increases in sick leave in the municipal sector may also have part of their explanation in the constant savings hunt we experienced during the last government. Fortunately, after last year's roll-out, we had a change in the majority of the population, which led to the red-green government being established, and with it a willingness to strengthen the municipal sector. For 2006, we received a historic boost for the local community sector, which helped to reverse pessimism and disgust towards optimism and anticipation. Today, from the opposition, we have heard a voice of concern about whether the local economy in the future will be good enough. What kind of concerns would not the same parties have had to express if their own line from the Bondevik II government had been continued? What would the situation have been with a starting point that would have been DKK 3.8 billion lower than what we have today, and with prospects for continuing tightening? If this can't be called a change in price, then what's going to be going to be able to use that expression? I feel quite sure that today's opposition parties have many rapporteurs around the country who would not have been the red-green billions ahead. Statements from the Christian People's Party team in particular suggest that this party must feel a greater degree of comfort in relation to the local economy than it did in Erna Solberg's line of approach. The basis for a fair distribution of well-being goods lies in a well-developed municipal sector, where the size of each wallet is not decisive for the level of welfare that can be offered. The party’s constant reference to freedom of choice in relation to care services, school offers and other privatisation promotions is actually to choose offers according to the size of the bank account. The red-green government wants a welfare offer that does not depend on the social and economic situation of each individual. When the State budget is presented tomorrow, it is important that the increase in the municipal economy be assessed against what would have been the situation if the Bondevik government had continued its line. I feel sure that the difference would have been great.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1578	This debate shall traditionally be the opposition's debate and the opposition's ability to produce its policy in relation to the Government. What we've heard the most about today from the opposition's speakers is criticism by the Government. One criticism is that the government does nothing, and does not follow up its promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. The breakup government, said the representative Børge Burnde. The representative, Sponheim, said something in the direction of chaos, winging and paralysis. Here, the representative Sponheim must have had an old record from a left-wing meeting up on the platform. Now the claims are wrong, but if Burnde, Sponheim and the others had been right, shouldn't it have born some joy in the opposition, and not criticism? That would mean that the country was not exposed to the government's policy, a policy opposition believes is wrong, unfortunate and harmful for the country's future. The second criticism is that the government has not brought the country into a new course, as we promised before the elections. The government apparently only continues the policy of the old government, the government in which today's opposition parties either sat in, or were parliamentary basis for – it was the representative of Carl I. Hagen who called it. But that should have made the opposition even more happy. Because then the policy they thought was so brilliant, and which led to today's government coming to the so-called covered table, would continue to shape the development of society. It's just a song, my mother said, and it's bad. What these claims show is that the opposition does not know which leg to stand on when it attacks the government's policy. But the interesting thing is that the criticism goes more about the government's lack of red-green policy than about the content of the government's policy and the new course it provides for social development. That might not be so strange, because the four opposition parties stand quite apart when they are talking flashily about their own policies and their own visions for the future. This is how this debate has confirmed that the opposition is not just cracking, it is not unnatural when there are four parties, but that there is still a groundwork between the largest opposition party and the others. And that background is at the core of politics, economics. In addition, in key policy areas, there are fundamental differences between the approaches of the parties. The former government parties are slipping apart. The right has gone from being a tax and school party to becoming an asphalt party, and invites in the media the Progress Party to cooperation. The Christian People's Party positions itself as the constructive opposition party with a clear front against the policies and values of the Advance Party. And the left is and becomes the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1591	It is wonderful to hear what the representatives of the government parties are able to say in today's debate. You also try to present yourself in such a self-righteous light that for me it tends to be ridiculous. Instead of glorifying themselves so to those degrees, they should probably try to listen a little bit more to what Grand President Igland insistently asked, namely, to listen more and better to his own people. The people out there have at least a completely different view of the government's success so far than the representatives have perceived. Health policy towards health businesses has so far been a disaster. I'll quote the head of the heart surgery department at UNN in Tromsø, which says that the government's health policy is tumultuous near the Molbo policy. This conscious policy of underfunding health businesses spreads uncertainty. And when we know that several hospitals of members of the board of Health Nord have been proposed in confidential meetings, this becomes a very poor approach to promoting a good North Region policy. An offensive Northern Territory policy, claims the Government. Yeah, it could have been great. But if we look at what is actually happening, the government has not even clearly established a daily arena in which Norway could jointly with Russia implement solutions to the fisheries and resolve the fish exports crisis. Norway and Russia need an understanding of each other’s interests in oil and gas. We need it in relation to bordering, not just in the grey zone and in relation to Svalbard, but all the way up to the North Pole. We also see that the government has managed to train the reloading of Russian oil and gas, a cooperation that would create many jobs in Finnmark. Norway’s main economic interests and challenges lie in the north. In fact, it is very important to put in place an arena or a Northern Region Directorate where we can jointly and in cooperation with Russia solve our common challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1603	Many representatives of the government parties have addressed the northern regions here today, and it is said that the oil industry is very pleased with the Government. But that's what happens when self-satisfaction overshadows reality. You hear what you want to hear. I have met an insecure industry, an impatient industry that asks what should happen when the management plan is due to be revised in 2010. For the oil industry, long-term, and long-term, bid number one and a prerequisite for building skills and bets. At an OLAF meeting in September, politicians were clearly informed: already in the 2007 budget, fresh funds must be provided to the Oil Directorate in order to be able to shoot seismics if we are to provide the necessary knowledge base to move forward with the opening of Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II, as outlined in the management plan. It's no secret that the government is a little popular in the Westphalia. Nor is it a secret that an overall political environment in Kirkenes and Sør-Varanger is declared above an environmental protection minister who has put a stop to continuing the oil transhipment activity that is underway there and has provided valuable ring-effects in the form of local supplies of goods and services to the oil tanks that enter there. I also think the government is now going to explain why they are clearly refusing to build up a petroleum oversight competence in the north based on the Arctic challenges that are in the business up there. Several people have pointed to the government's strong Northern Territory bet, and it has been said that it is the government that has turned the map on its head. But the right thing is right: it did the NHO long before the government, and it was probably also the NHO who made the Prime Minister run over with promises of big bets in the north at the annual conference in January. Unfortunately, we just have to note that the big bet has become a verbal bet, because rarely have we seen several state councils speak as hot as they have about the northern regions, and rarely have such big words become such little action. If the Government is to avoid a place of gastric lavage in the north, the budget will have to contain solid and concrete measures tomorrow to provide content for the promised build-up of skills, infrastructure and research to provide new activity in the north. Travel life and the marine sector are as important as oil and gas. 2007–08 has been designated as the International Polar Year, and it is a reality that it is internationally expected that Norway will make a significant contribution in this way in order to move forward with globally very important climate research in this context. So tomorrow, the government is also going up to the research exam. Large words and small allocations, big words and limitations of activity, which can be summarized by the Government's Northern Region Policy. today. So they ask whether this picture can be changed with the budget presented tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1620	One of the reasons we've had a change of regime in Sweden, and that the social democrats lost the election there, was that Prime Minister Göran Persson did not handle the situation with an inclusive working life in a good enough way. There was a difficult discussion about the real extent of unemployment, and the Prime Minister devalued the issue of all those outside. Our Prime Minister does not! On the contrary, he has today put his head on the block and said that one of the questions that will determine whether this government succeeds is whether one succeeds in including not only those who are unemployed, but those who are out of work because of illness, disability or other reasons. I'm glad the government is so focused on. Today, we have been told that there is a waiting time of up to three years in terms of return measures, and there are about 30 000 waiting in queues in this system. We should be able to do something about this in a situation where the labour market is screaming for labour. When the budget comes tomorrow, it's of the things we from the Christian People's Party will especially look after. Have you succeeded in getting some powerful grip on that? Otherwise, I have to say that this debate has been marked by a bit of a funny shadow boxing between position and opposition in what's coming tomorrow, and so half of the Greatness doesn't know, while the other half of the Greatness in the debate behaves like some crazy schoolchildren and says that we others can enjoy what's coming. We realize that we have something to enjoy, but we also realize that the medal must have a backside. We're very interested in knowing what's written in small print, and what's hidden in the corners of the budget proposals. We'll have plenty of time to get back to tomorrow. What I think is serious is that this time the government systematically and officially, with Prime Minister and Heads of State at its head, enjoys central goods from the budget, while the government is here putting one of the most important debates in the Stortinget. The Council of State, Mr Enoksen, has even held a press conference while we have had a debate here on an important matter with which the Stortinget is not familiar until tomorrow through the budget proposal. That's not what I call respect for the Storting! I think that the National Assembly should consider whether we have earned the opportunity to have a debate on the budget in the way we have now. And the government should think about whether this is a worthy way of dealing with the budgetary material, both in relation to the voters who only know the upside, and in relation to the Storting that holds a debate where half the Storing knows, and half the Storing doesn't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1631	When you have been sitting and listening to the speeches of the government parties in the debate throughout this day and night, I must say that in a year in this country, we have moved from a true hell – the excuse, President – that we obviously had a year ago, to near the kingdom of heaven, which we have now received in a year with a new government. I might think that the new government parties should be a little cautious about using as strong words and expressions as they have done in this debate. Here we have talked about rage and ‘catastrophe’ – so I don’t know what – while celebrating the Government up to a level that they probably deserve in the eyes of the government parties. But I think maybe you should wait until you see the budget tomorrow, if we get some fulfillment of promises. It is not the case, as many of the representatives of the government parties have said in this debate, that the voters gave a clear yes to the formation of the red-green government – rather the opposite. There was no majority of voters for a red-green government, but the election law made sure that Norway got a red-green government. And with that hindrance, I think you should be even more careful in creating the impression that the voters are now almost lying and taking the breath of joy over all the amazing things this government has done, because, according to the polls, at least you can't see that the voters have perceived this government's excellence yet. But perhaps this will be discovered tomorrow. But the most serious thing about the whole debate, I think, is the Government's total lack of respect for the Storting. So we have choices every four years to get the voters to say theirs. Then I think, majority rule or not, that you should have respect for the constitutional rules that apply. Respect for voters and respect for the fact that it is the national Parliament that needs to be informed. There are eye-catchingly many leaks from this budget, as well as the experience of a Council of State holding a press conference in the middle of the debate on a budgetary matter. I think that's special! I think the Prime Minister should take self-criticism on this. It is not good for us over time to develop a culture that appears as if the National Assembly no longer has any meaning. We don't deserve that! It is this hall, and this hall alone, which adopts laws in this country. That respect must be shown even if you have a majority government. Finally, I would just like to say that the Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposal from the Left, which has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1644	The President considers it right to stress the fact that the representative himself found out that there was no parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1647	I want to give praise to the Government. I want to commend the Government for obviously revitalizing the imagination of Norwegian political debate. So I'm a secret follower of, and I have a lot of fun in between, reading fantasy songs and science fiction. After hearing two hours of three-minute posts from the Workers' Party today, I have to say that they should all try to be published within that singer. There's something about people going through this, because the differences aren't so big. The changes are not so big, and the description actually seems quite daunting to most adults' understanding of what is happening in our society. I agree that the government has now taken a new course in some areas. I think it's a wrong course, but I don't think it's for believers in some of the great characteristics that have been given. There were many who discussed: what will happen when Norway finally receives a majority government after the elections? What's that going to mean? The government often stresses that it has a majority. But I've begun to wonder if the government sometimes shows a wrong understanding of what parliamentaryism is all about. It is not the case in parliamentarianism that the Government has a majority. It's like the majority has government, and it's a distinct difference. Those who, late in the evening, can't take it in, can think about it until tomorrow. The starting point is this hall. It's those who are here, who are elected by the people, who are the sponsors of the Government. It also requires the government to think about its relationship with the Stortinget. There's always a risk of arrogance when you have a majority. The way in which the arrogance has been expressed over the past few weeks is an abundance of budgetary leakages that have obviously been directed, and which have been governed by active participation by government councils in a way that I have not experienced from any government in the past. That some culture minister had to want to tell you that he has some money for a little cultural action is completely forgiving. The fact that something has been passed on to some high-speaker representative is completely unforgivable. But the regime that has now been is arrogance, and it undermines the whole reform of the debate system here. This debate of the throne has been marked by the fact that the government parties would really rather talk about a budget that no one else has seen yet. That's what I think you're going to take over in the government. Today's press conference I think was the top of what we can actually tolerate, when a government council has a press conference on a budgetary matter for no particular reason. It is serious when the opposition parties react to this. It is serious when we say that we should think through who is the sponsor of the Government. So it's this hall, and the relationship with us is important for how this country is going to be heading forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1665	Then we're in the situation that after a few hours of sleep tonight we're going to meet again tomorrow. Then there will be the difference that we have a fairly similar starting point for the debate. Then we have a common platform, and then we've all seen what we're going to discuss, and we don't have the shadow boxing that Mr Høybråten said it's been so far. I agree that there has been a very strange throne debate. After joining many of them, I have to say that I have not participated in anything similar. It's very strange to have this two-part-session in the Chamber as to what information you have about the debates going on, and it's strange sometimes to go down to the office, turn on the Internet and read how the list of a summarized budget starts to get quite complete using confirmed leaks on a day like this, where people in this room come with information. It is the case that this is becoming more and more public before going to the Norwegian Grand Prix and the elected parliament, and then there is a basis for using quite large words. I have been sitting in some governments, and I admit that I have probably been on some budget leaks. But this systematic and – I would say – also the formal leakage regime we have seen in recent times provides the basis for asking some questions from the Stortinges side if we are not going to try to hold on to some important principles, namely that the Stortinge must have equal opportunity to discuss the front and back of the budget, and we must get this at the same time as the public. There is a basis for such a debate. Many will think that in this situation I will swing to the very great heights, in great words. I do not yet want to use words as contempt for the Storting, but it must be allowed to wonder whether we have earned this from the Storting – and that should apply to everyone. I must also express a reflection on the dampening of the debate, which is linked to what was clearly said by the Prime Minister before the budget was presented tomorrow, namely that the 2.5 billion DKK of cover for the sick pay cut is in the budget, but that cooperation with the parties is going on. Some of us have had the pleasure of talking to these parties during this day as well. Then we are in the strange situation that when the Stortinge gets the budget formally tomorrow, the most exciting part of the budgetary procedure will not take place in this house, but in the so-called Stoltenberg Committee, which is to look at how to obtain the 2.5 billion outside this house. It's not in line with what Left through history has seen as the right relationship between magnification and government. And then of course we're excited: where is the big x in all of these good pieces that have now come out, which is absolutely fundamental in order to give the balanced budgetary comment? But we'll continue tomorrow, and then we have new powers to tackle many of the same issues. Finally, as an explanation of vote, I would like to say that the Left will support proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, and of course our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1680	First, I would like to tell the representative, Højbråten, that I think it is very good that he places such emphasis on inclusive working life. It's an area where we'd like to try to find common solutions. Then there are several representatives who have raised the issue of leakages, or issues from the budget that have been presented/reported in the media. Then I think it's a good idea to think a little bit back on what's been the situation. We actually have very good documentation, long interesting lists, among other things. from August of last year. At that time, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik had a presentation on increased deduction rights for gifts to non-governmental organisations, with an amount and an amount that greatly overshadows what I have been near to mention in my comments on the government budget before it was presented. The current Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss presented just as well the tax package, great headlines on top tax rates, tax reliefs and all – billions of dollars. So I can point out one by one of the former members of the government in this room who have presented it either in full publicity or in more reduced publicity in a wide range of areas and in a wide range of cases, including central issues such as the tax regime, but it has had the same function. Therefore, I have to say that when representatives from the same parties stand here and have a very high profile, and almost on a principle basis believe that it is wrong to present things in advance, I cannot understand that talking about 43 million. spending on environmental housing measures in the Groruddalen region is expected to be slightly worse than the billion-dollar leaks in the tax regime of the former Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the government last year. That's point one. Point 2 is the question of how much better it has become in Norway. It's getting better. Then you can discuss which words to use, and I have been among those who have always stressed that there has been a strength and an advantage in Norway that it is not night and day, and not heaven or the opposite, you experience if you change government. The crucial factor in Norway’s choice is the direction, social development, change over time. It's like two ships leaving the same port: if they have different courses, they end up in very different places, even though the distance the first time is not so great. Now there's another direction for social development, it's community and a fair distribution, instead of privatisation and tax relief. For those over 200,000 families who have experienced cheaper kindergartens, for all the unemployed who have experienced increased unemployment, for those people who feel that we are removing self-esteem, and for those who experience that thousands of new teachers and employees are now employed in the care of the elderly, there is actually a significant difference already.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1689	I don't think the opposition parties would have reacted if this was a $42 million discussion. kr for housing measures in Groruddalen. What you've been responding to is that you haven't been able to hear a newscast or read a newspaper in the last few days without seeing billions of publications from the Government in almost all areas in the budget. I record that the Prime Minister does not think that any of this is critical. I note that the Prime Minister thinks it is very much the relationship he creates with the Storting. I think the Prime Minister should actually think about that again, because it has something to do with how we organize the work here, for example. whether it is at all valuable to have the debate we have had here today, or whether we should go back to just getting two budget debates, in which case we are waiting for the budget to be published to all of us before holding the debate on the throne, which today – and for the first time I have seen – has largely become a form of partial finance debate on the part of the government parties. Usually, the opposition has always tried to make it a partial financial debate. Today, government parties have tried to do that. So earlier today, I asked a question to the Prime Minister relating to the DKK 2.5 billion that seems to be missing, and I want to know how this is going to happen when the government budget is presented tomorrow. I want to repeat the question I had in the change of line: is it so that the proposal that comes tomorrow is seriously meant by the Government, or is it seriously meant to have a process with the social partners that will result in other types of cuts and changes in health pay? Our meeting with the parties today does not indicate that the parties have accepted that it is those who have assumed the balancing responsibility of accumulation and government, but on the contrary, their perception of the work to be done now is that good and long-term measures are needed to reduce sick leave. They haven't taken over the responsibility we elected to find the agings. I am simply in doubt that tomorrow we will receive a budget that we can start working on at all, when we lack such a size as how to cover 2.5 billion kroner, and how to take the grips around getting sick leave down. I would like to have a explanation of vote in the hope that I will not run up again. We intend to vote in favour of the proposal from the Left. We must be allowed to say that we do not really need a commission for entrepreneurs and innovation. We registered that the magazine Founder and Abelia liked our program as the most sovereign in both of these areas in connection with the election campaign. But if there's going to be another commission to realize that right-wing policy is good, we're following to set up such a commission. It could be an adult education for many. With regard to the other proposals, I must be allowed to inform you that the Right-wing Group intends to vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Advance Party. The other proposals we feel strongly attached to the budgetary procedure, and we will therefore not vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1706	First to the state budget. The budget presented tomorrow is, of course, a balanced budget, and I think I also underlined it earlier in the debate. What we've invited the parties to is a dialogue, a cooperation to find alternative proposals that provide for a corresponding reduction in sick leave and in the state's costs of sick pay within the framework of popular security. That's the basis, that's what we're dealing with. Either we come up with that kind of proposal, and then it's excellent, or we don't, but then the government's proposal is firm. I hope that we – and I will make the most of it – will come up with agreed solutions. I want to focus on that, and I feel that we have a good dialogue with the parties in that regard. So back to this by responding to leakages. There were extensive leakages in 2005, there were extensive leakages in 2004, there were extensive leakages in 2003 and 2002 and certainly before that. I assessed as opposition leader that time to respond, but thought in my quiet mind that perhaps once I came into government, and therefore let me be. But we have e.g. a fine list here from 2004 from the then government, where the Minister of Finance presents the August tax scheme, the Minister of Assistance presents the assistance scheme of SEK 1.5 billion, Gabrielsen presents SEK 1.5 billion to the psychiatry, the municipal economy is presented with DKK 1 billion in free income, the police and the judiciary presented with DKK 300 to 400 million. kr on 29 September, birth permit for fathers is presented from the Christian People's Party with 250 million. SEK, faith training 4 October by 50 million. SEK, Skogsholm presents several hundred million for transportation, kindergartens are presented on 3 October, etc. Well, this list is so long that you shouldn't hear it. It's from 2004, and what was then played by the then government. Therefore, I believe that you cannot in principle be for your own leaks, and in principle against others's. Either you mean one, or you mean the other. That's the one. The last is just that this debate has shown that there is no line, no clear message from the opposition. The government insists that we are changing Norway in a good and proper direction. We're doing what we promised. The opposition has a very cracking message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1717	There is cause for concern that the Prime Minister clearly considers budgetary leakages to be exemplary and that he has been inspired to put it into a system. I must then be allowed to ask: does it mean that one intends to continue this practice and step it up during this four-year period, so that ultimately it becomes superfluous to give a financial speech at all for the Storting? A very experienced reporter in the NRK told me – I don't remember if it was yesterday or yesterday – that he had now given notice to the government quarter that below that one would not accept leaks of less than 100 million. kr, for now the flow had become so controversial that if they were to communicate everything, they would get full-time employment. I must be allowed to remind the Prime Minister that it was a unanimous increase, with the support of the current Prime Minister, who adopted the reform of Storting's Rules of Procedure at the end of the last part-session and who shattered that the debate on the throne will be completed before the presentation of the budget is published. I believe the Prime Minister that it was, I had almost said, a fictitious reform, or that he does not believe that the point with it from the presidency, and to which the Stortinget joined unanimously, was that one should avoid being in such an absurd situation as the one we have experienced with this throne debate, which has become an even more strange form of extra finance debate than those that were held when the throne debate took place after the financial speech was held. At least at that time, all representatives of the Storting were equal when it came to information bases. I must say, of course, that if this government intends to continue this practice, then the Presidency must consider reopening the Rules of Procedure for a new revision. For past practice, at least practices were significantly better than those put in place by that government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1731	I ask for the floor for a small comment and for an explanation of vote at the end of today's debate. The debate on the throne is the debate on the opposition, so I have listened today. I've listened to the posts of the opposition parties, and I've tried to find a line, a direction, for what should be the political message from the opposition parties today. I have to confess at the end of the day that it has been very difficult to find some direction or some line in what has been done, then with one exception, that the opposition has, of course, used the debate to hammer on the government. That is, to a large extent, the role of the opposition, but it has not been possible to trace other clear political messages. Actually, I have to say that this end of the debate, which was sometimes called the 'Caesar Round', does not have so much imperialism today, because it ends up in a debate that is not about political issues or political directions, but is actually about leakages and about who played the most wherever and when. I really think that's what I'm doing to characterize the debate we've had today. At the very end, I allow myself to withdraw the thread to some of the things that were the theme earlier on the day. Then it was a little bit about teeth, and if in one word I'm going to give my characteristic of how I've experienced the role of the opposition today, I'm going to say, toothless. The explanation of vote is very brief and simple: I recommend the Workers' Party to vote against the proposals that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1744	That's really why I drew myself, just to give the Workers' Party an opportunity to turn in their vote. It is possible that the Soria Moria declaration has not been fully negotiated. It is possible that the elements of the Soria Moria declaration are subject to new rounds of negotiations, or that the three parties still do not fully agree on what it says. But I just have to remind you, since the rest of us may have read the Soria Moria declaration better than the government parties, that the proposals No. 3, 4, 5 and 6 are verbatim from the Soria Moria Declaration. It might be a pity for the three government parties to vote against their own government statement. We actually thought, in the Advance Party at least, that the Government was serious about the Soria Moria declaration, but it is possible that it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1751	It is with wonder that I am recording a little frustration in relation to the content of today's debate. It must be allowed to remind you that the debate has the throne as its basis, and in the throne, there are actually a number of bets from the government. And so is it that what we from the Center Party see as continuous from the opposition is on the one hand that they seem to disagree with each other. There's nothing surprising. But the second is that it actually seems to be outrageous about realizing the Soria Moria statement. There has been no requirement today to set up with additional tax havens, but there have actually been many contributions from each other from different parties that have gone on both to strengthen the local economy, to strengthen transport and to take better care of the community. Then the Prime Minister has invited us to a constructive dialogue beyond the fall. So we're going to look at that from the Center Party. We think it can be a lot of things, both the church and the state, and the things that are a little bit longer in time, the pension reform, and there may be things that are closer in time. Finally, I just want to say from the Center Party's side that we have no need for the Progress Party to draw out individual items in the Soria Moria statement and bring them to a reconciliation here. We have confidence that the Government has stopped every day working to realize the Soria Moria declaration in dialogue with the plurality that forms the basis of the Government, and also with the opposition. For our part, therefore, we are also going to vote against the proposals that are being made here today. We actually didn't think they were necessary. Of course, there are some of those we disagree with, while some of them are taken from the Soria Moria statement, according to Siv Jensen. We didn't think it was necessary to have them attuned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1762	The SV Group will also vote against, with the same justification given by the representative Meltveit Kleppa. At the end of the meeting, I would also like to link a two-three comments to the debate. I've been sitting here all day. Except for a small lunch break, I have been in the hall and listened to most of it. The first thing I want to comment on is what goes on if you have respect for the Storting when you have majority government. Since we joined the government, there has still been a theme both in the government and among us three government parties. There's one thing, as I said in my post today, that we're genuinely concerned about, and that's that the Storting is going to be taken seriously, and also that the organs that come in to hearings on the Storing are being taken seriously. So those who try to say that this government doesn't take the Storting seriously don't have enough knowledge of what you think when you're in a majority government. I expect some people heard my first post, and there I deepened a little bit why it's important. The second thing I want to comment on is something that has struck me today, especially among the most central politicians in the opposition parties. As an old Norwegian teacher, I often talked about the form and content of the poems. I think you have been interested in the form and little in the content. In politics, I think the content is far more important than the form. In the case of poetry, however, the form can also be interesting many times, but not in politics. The fact that from the opposition you have so little to do with content, that you have to go to the step that there is a form to take on the government has surprised me. So finally, there's one thing that's surprised me positive, and that's true of all the games. There have been a lot of young representatives here today who have made excellent contributions. It is good for political Norway in the future. From both the opposition and the position, I think we have had young people from early 20s and upward who have made excellent contributions. It has pleased both SV and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1775	The three parliamentary leaders of the three government parties have gone up in a row and proved the arrogance towards the opposition of the Stortinge. They have proven that they do not want cooperation. They have defined political content as form. They've been sitting here listening, it's possible, but they haven't had their ears open. They have not listened to the political opinions of others, but have chosen to continue a tradition of characterising the opposition rather than entering into political dialogue. That's my experience, and I think you should think about it when you try to protect the government's little lack of supplies in terms of leaks, in the way you've just done. I can say that I'm not most afraid of the majority government's arrogance of power towards the Storting. I've long stated that I'm most afraid of the majority government's arrogance to the rest of society. There's a lot of things we can go into that discussion. One of them we had in connection with the revised national budget, where a clearly little thoughtful change was made without much discussion in this society. I'm talking about the taxes on wealth on annuities, which have great consequences for people who have come into an unfortunate situation in life and must protect themselves, and among other things. then have received an annuity. That's an example. I have to say that the attitude here does not indicate in particular that the invitations you have made to cooperate with the opposition are what you live by. We can probably put it on the quota to try to protect our own government in areas on a late evening. I've heard articles from all the government parties that have had political content, which have been about political matters. Of course, I've heard different opinions from four different opposition parties. After all, we're all four different opposition parties. We've heard invitations from almost all the parties to join in addressing one of our most important challenges, namely that one in four in working age is out of work. There have been invitations that in some of the most important areas we can have a common virtue. It does not deserve the characteristics of the three parliamentary leaders of the three governmental parties. I actually think they should think about it the next time. They shall have a humble attitude in cooperation with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1784	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox There will be a call to voting. [[Footage, see page 110]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1792	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1837	In the course of the debate, eight proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No I, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a ‘Funding and Innovation Commission’ with the task of analysing Norway’s challenges in the globalised economy and proposing strategies and instruments for a stronger entrepreneurial culture and a more innovative and flexible knowledge and business policy.’ As far as the President is concerned, this proposal is supported by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1864	We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions. 1–7, from the Progress Party. As far as the President is concerned, proposal No. 5 of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The President will therefore propose that there be a vote on proposal No. 5 separately, and then there'll be a total vote over the rest of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1882	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 1 to 4, 6 and 7. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up an infrastructure fund, representing 300 billion. kr. The return is earmarked for road investment by 70 pst., railway and collective measures, including bus-based public transport 25 pst. and broadband 5 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1936	The President will propose that the address of His Majesty the King be annexed to the 151th anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-05-2.ana.ud1261e1949	There is no record.
