ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Geir-Ketil Hansen is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e50	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e59	The Ministry of Renewal and Administration wants to change the official name of Troms from being only Norwegian to bilingual: Troms in Norwegian and Roma in Sami. This has been discussed in the Committee and it has been consulted. In the hearing, the county council has joined this change. As stated in the decision, the municipalities that have been a hearing body have also joined. What is not in the setting is that only two municipalities have found it valuable to respond to the hearing. The majority of the Committee would like the bilingual name of the counties of Troms – Norwegian and Sami. I record this as doing without going into the facts of the case, without assessing whether this is justified on an actual basis. The party of progress has pointed to a number of facts on the matter which, on the contrary, should make it clear that the Sami name of Troms is not natural. The only municipality in Troms that today has a Sami official name is Kåfjord. With its 2,288 inhabitants, it's 1.5 pst. by the population of Troms. In addition, according to the primary education information system, only 53 students throughout Troms use Sami as language training targets, and that is only 0.25 pst. by the students in the county. For Finnmark's part, which you're comparing to here, the percentage is 8.31. Troms is roughly on the national average in terms of the number of Sami-speaking students. In addition, we know that only 2,538 of the well 12,500 people listed in the same number live in Troms, and that's a small percentage. It seems as if much of the motivation for joining the team is the special rights, the special arrangements, which Stortinget has unfortunately introduced for the Sami population. So we also know that most of the congregators can't actually read and write Sami. It's a fact. But despite that and despite these actual circumstances that the committee is not interested in looking into, the Sami name of Troms will be used. ILO Convention No 169, which is widely used to justify this name change, has been ratified by only 17 countries, most from Central and South America. The definition of the indigenous population is used as an argument for introducing these changes, but I have previously asked questions about the definition of Sami as an indigenous population. In fact, there is a lot of good research from both Norway and Sweden that suggests that together was not the first people to live in the North Callot. And then it becomes very strange that you're going to use it as an argument and as a basis for introducing these special arrangements for ethnic cohabitants. We have also signaled that we should therefore withdraw from this ILO Convention as soon as possible. I note – because I am from Troms in addition to being rapporteur on this matter – that the further away from Troms, the greater the understanding of using a Sami name for Troms. I fear that by doing this, you only share in alienating the vast majority of people in Troms, and I don't think at all that this will serve the cause. On the contrary, we fear that further demands for special treatment will be made in retrospect, which will also have consequences for Troms. The Party for Progress does not wish to see this adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e81	I really didn't think it would be necessary to take the floor on a matter that is so much of a consensus in the committee, but I have to because the case rapporteur gave a relatively small comprehensive picture of the Committee's work on the matter, especially when he says that the majority has not gone into it. The majority of the committee has done so. We may have approximated the matter in a somewhat different way than by, first of all, using percentages in relation to the population. So we've really gone into the matter. This does not mean that one necessarily has to write long comments – the majority of the committee actually agrees with the conclusion reached by the Government. It's like this that we are now giving access to the optional use of Rome or Troms as the name of Troms County. That means that those who want to continue using Troms can do it. It seems that the majority of the committee is quite a practical arrangement. But here it's about respect that we in that area, no matter how a percent rains, are in a situation where there are two original languages, and that both of the two names are recognized as official names of the county we're talking about. The reality is that those who have spoken in the hearing – it is not the committee that has had a hearing, there has been consultation on the proposal presented by the Government – have expressed a positive opinion on this. As I said, we have had a discussion earlier in Stortinget today in connection with the communication from Sametinget for 2004, in which some of the themes on which the representative Amundsen now came up again were discussed in depth. There is no doubt that although the ILO Convention has been ratified by only 17 countries, it provides a good basis for how to treat — and should treat — the indigenous population in a country. In any case, Norway has ratified it, and that should be the starting point for Norwegian enlargement. I have to say that when you see the two issues in context, the Progress Party is constantly deliberately using the concept of minority rather than indigenous people about the Sami population. It is done in such a way that one says that there are more people in Norway who have Urdu as their mother tongue than have Sami language. To the extent that the representative Amundsen is afraid that we should introduce Urdu as an official language in Troms, that is not the purpose of this matter. The purpose of this case is to respect that we are actually in a bilingual area, and that those who are now in minority, the indigenous people in the area, get the same respect for their language as the majority for their language. So it's about real non-discrimination, not the kind of non-discrimination that the Progress Party emphasises, that everyone should be treated equally – everyone should use the language that Amundsen best masters. It's not our perception of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e96	For the vast majority who live in or come from Troms, the Sami culture, the identity and the narrative tradition are natural and part of everyday life. We probably don't think much about it being samish anymore. That Troms is a Sami-Norwegian state with a lot of Sami identity and culture, is nothing new. What is new today, and I am very pleased about it, is that today it is adopted in the Norwegian Grand Prix that the official name of the Troms County becomes bilingual and will be Troms or Romsa. The Sami name will be officially used and treated as Norwegian. On February 6th this year, on the day of the Same People, which became official flag day a few years ago, the Trom County Council marked this decision, which is now being made in the Grand Duchy, by introducing bilingual letterheads on its letters. The change of name is an important measure to equalise Sami and Norwegian languages in the municipal, county and state administrations. This is an action that also has a very large symbolic value, which extends much further than we can imagine. We recognize culture, tradition and identity. This is a decision that creates bridge construction and understanding. The protection of culture in the use of Sami terms is important in asserting Sami language and maintaining ethnic identity. The University of Tromsø and the Regional Hospital of Tromsø are signposted in Norwegian and Sami. It has also been decided that Harstad Hospital should be separated in Norwegian and Sami. A number of municipalities, such as Tromsø, Sjövegan and Kåfjord, have introduced signs and put into use Sami names. The municipality of Tromsø has this year submitted a report to ensure that the Sami names are officially used in their municipality. The municipality has decided that the Sami should be central to the municipality. New maps shall be drawn up using both Sami and Norwegian site names. This is important to strengthen the Sami identity, but also the opposite: Tromsø municipality is a municipality with many places that have only Sami names. In the village I come from, for example, most mountains are only the name of Sami. This will provide an understanding of the geographical names that will bring the Sami and Norwegian cultures together. Identity, something to reflect on, is important. I am proud that this government has presented this proposition, which is so widely supported in the Stortinget. It is only the Progress Party that is opposed. Equal treatment is a principle in Norway. That is why it is important that Troms County should have both a Sami and a Norwegian name. A big and important question for everyone is: Where do I come from, who am I, where am I going? It's a fundamental and important question for everyone. The decision taken today at Stortinget will contribute to the creation of an identity and provide security for the Sami part – a large part – of the population of Troms. When Per-Willy Amundsen, who is the case rapporteur, uses the name he makes on the people of Troms, I would argue that his opinion represents a minority in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e117	Left supports Government suggestions in Ot. pp. No 38 to change the official name of the counties of Troms, to Troms, or to Rome. The change of name will be an important step towards equality between Sami and Norwegian languages in the county. A large majority of the county council in Troms, including the Left, have applied for a change to bilingual county names, Norwegian and Sami. This is a strong signal that there is great local willingness to introduce an equivocal Sami name to Troms. All the hearing bodies which have delivered their opinions also support the proposal. Parts of the state of Trom have a Sami distinctive character, where Sami language and culture are prominent. Part of the Sámi administrative area is based in the state of Troms. As a national Parliament, we have a responsibility to implement equality among others. Sami and Norwegian languages, as indicated in the Memorandum of Understanding and the establishment of the Sametinget. Norway also has international obligations to take care of. The left therefore supports this proposal that Troms in the future be either Troms or Roma.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e128	After the last three articles, there would be no need to say so much more, but I would like to stress it all three, both Dag Terje Andersen, Lena Jensen and now last Vera Lyskleatt, were inside, that in Troms County there was a large number of people asking for a bilingual name on their country. Trom's county is chosen as a representative of the Trom's population. They trust the inhabitants of Troms County. There is a strong signal to the Government and to the Norwegian giant to listen to what the local populace are asking for, and that then, as the representative Vera Lyskleätt was also inside, has a broad number behind him. That's what I thought we're going to put a heavy weight on our hearts. In 2002, the Stortinget decided on the bilingual names of Finnmark County. This was after a call from Finnmark County, and the changes in the law came into force from 1 January 2003. Our international obligations, Grundlova § 110a, The Stortinget's decision to unite and create the Sameting is all the signal that the National Governments have the will to equalise Sami and Norwegian languages and to preserve ethnic identity. The government sees it as natural that Sami and Norwegian languages are treated in the same way in the municipal, county and state administrations. The cultural protection in use by Sami students is important when it comes to asserting Sami languages and maintaining ethnic identity. Bilingual municipality names and county names in areas where Sami language and culture are strong will be of great value in such a context. Parts of Troms have Sami distinctive character; Sami language and culture are prominent. We haven't listed how many people can write and can't write in Sami, but it doesn't matter either. The point is that a person perceives himself as part of a Sami ethnic group, and that is what they do. That's what the plural decision in the county has also highlighted. A part of the Sami language administrative area in the Samolova is also then located in Troms County. There was good enough reason why this government offered the cause and desired bilingual names. Questions about who or what kind of people should or may be covered by the definition of "hero" have been raised in many contexts. Since the 1970s, Norwegian government powers have accepted that all of them will be included in the key elements attributed to indigenous peoples in international contexts, especially in the comprehensive UN report on indigenous peoples from 1986. The ILO Convention 169, signed in 1989, establishes a definition of indigenous people to be used in the understanding and practice of the Convention. One of the conditions for this definition is that this population group comes from the population that served in the country or in a geographical region covered by it before the time when its current borders were established. That this was the case together, among other things, comes out. the fact that the States of Norway-Denmark and Sweden, including Finland, found it necessary to have a specific addition to the border treaty between the two parties of 1751, the so-called Lappe Codicisille, which regulates several aspects of the combined and the use of the areas on both sides of the border after each common border. Historical experts suggest that together their ancestors had their livelihoods and used lands from central Norway and northwards from prehistoric times, and that they were alone to live in the northernmost parts of the country before the Norwegian settlement began. The ILO Convention 169 also lays down the conditions under which indigenous peoples should have their own social, cultural or political institutions in whole or in part. One suggests that together are of the peoples that have been the subject of most studies by social anthropologists, and in recent years also by legal historians and other social scientists. The special features of common culture and the fact that they still exist at a time of great change in the eel's social and cultural development in the country, or else one can look at them as well as well as documented. The fact that the group still has its own language is not discussed. There is therefore no reason why the Government should change its policy; it should change what is happening to indigenous peoples in the international context, or in relation to each other in a national context. The government's goal will continue to be that together, as an indigenous people in the country with a long historical connection and the economic, social and cultural adaptation they have, will achieve equal rights to the rest of the population. For this reason, I am, in the same way as several of the representatives, proud that Troms has asked to use two names in their county, and that today in Odelstinget we confirm that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e157	I don't think you should pay too much attention to recommendations that come from the county. One thing is that the county council has to be closed anyway, another thing is actually that it's not representative of the people of Troms themselves. So this is going to help alienate the people of Troms. But I have a question for the Council of State. It goes on: If this is the case that dating is not an indigenous population in the North Callot, will you still maintain the Sami name of Troms? And can you not deal either with the Norwegian or also with the female name of Troms and the Urdian name of Troms? There could be quite a big name tag in Troms County. You see that? Secondly, it may be important to stress that, to the extent that there is doubt as to whether cohabitation is an indigenous population in Finnmark, there is at least every reason to doubt that cohabitation is an indigenous population in Troms. In fact, most of the couples living in Troms today have migrated from Sweden over the last few centuries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e166	I think it's quite eye-catching, when one is elected into the nation's national assembly, not to think that whoever is elected has the people in their backs. Because I'm going to believe that the representative Amundsen sees it as having a people who have chosen him, in his back when he stands as a national authority in the Norwegian National Assembly. I'm going to believe that Amundsen acknowledges that those who are elected to the county of Troms have the same recognition and legitimate popular confidence behind them when they're chosen to be the people's county representatives in Troms. When a majority of the county representatives, a very clear, large, plural, have asked for a bilingual name in their county, I think it is reasonable to think it is particularly appropriate that a national assembly representative doubt whether they have the people behind them. Only the people in elections can show. It will get them to the next year. But to doubt that a plurality in a county has the people behind it, I think I'm reasonable especially, when a person himself is elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e172	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e177	It is never certain that a elected government has the people behind it. There's a lot of different examples of that. The introduction of the Finnmark Act last year was one example, because you could not ask the people for advice, as the answer was given in advance. Because it would have become a no. It's democracy where you listen to your people, put in the scene of the Storting. That the government doesn't ask the people of Troms what it wants is a mystery, and that's wrong. It has never been good to force a hat down the ears of anyone – today in Troms, last year in Finnmark. So we're talking about two equivalent languages. 99 pst. speaks Norwegian and 1 pst. Talking samish. In addition, you want to put a name on Troms that is Finnish. Two original languages in Troms, says the Workers' Party, Sami and Norwegian. What about newnormish? What about a much larger minority living there, women? What about the Russian immigration that took place in the 1200s in connection with the sons of Yshengis-Khan who besieged Arkhangelsk and settled in Malangen? Should they also have their own language? When we talk about non-discrimination, yes, of course, it's the individual that's going to be treated equally by society, obviously from the standpoint of each person's stand. There is something quite different than the Workers' Party's commitment to discriminate against ethnic groups on the basis of ethnicity. When we talk about where the group comes from, where the Finnish settlement comes from, the experts are committed to both language and migration. If we go in and look at Finnish researchers and old writings tied up against the kainula ice and the cohabitation, Finnish settlement was tied up to the area of Ladoga and Onega. They got the name Suomi. Same ones were tied up to the same area a little further north, and they got the name Sapmi. The linguistic similarity and the origin are actually very close. And we're not talking about a Sami language, we actually have nine Sami languages, just like we have eight different Finnish languages around the Baltic Sea and the North. So what we're talking about is complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e188	Today is a brand day, because with this decision we introduce bilingual names in the state of Troms, Norwegian and Sami. I'm very happy and very proud that there's a red-green government here showing the way. But then I have to say at the same time that it's time to get this name change, because what you're doing here is really just following a lot of institutions, organizations and municipalities that have done the same thing in Troms. UNN is the sign in both Norwegian and Sami, the University of Tromsø is the sign in Norwegian and in Sami, the county has done the same thing, the municipality of Tromsø has done the same, and even TIL, Tromsø Sports Act, introduced signage both in Norwegian and in Sami at Alfheim many years ago. Then it is certainly time that the county came after. When I listen to the representative Amundsen, it's almost impossible for me to understand that we actually come from the same county and represent the same county on the Stortinget. The representative Amundsen's ridicule of the county council in Troms seems to me to be quite serious. The argument that the county council is about to be closed and therefore not to be given any weight, I think is extremely undemocratic and very suspicious. Amundsen may not have had the development that has been in Troms in recent years. It's an increasing focus and awareness of what the Sami culture, the Sami history and the Sami identity actually means to us who come from Troms. As for the significance of the Sami history, I think the Council of State had a very good representation of this. Therefore, the requirement of non-discrimination is an obvious consequence of this. The representative Amundsen also stated that this contributes to people in Troms feeling alienation. On the contrary, I feel that the majority of the population in Troms believes that the development we see towards real equality is quite correct and quite natural. For more and more of us, Sami culture and history are an important part of our identity. That is why I must once again be allowed to say that I am very proud of the decision made by Odelstinget here today, and believe that there is an important brand day in the direction of more real equality between the Norwegian and the Sami people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e197	When I redrawed, it's because I want to get an answer to that question that I just asked the Council of State, because I didn't get it at all. On the contrary, I heard a lot about the importance of the county council and boast of it, and it is also others who have spent a lot of time on it. I'm not going to go into it any more. On the other hand, I miss an answer to my question. It may be a bit unpleasant to have to answer that, but I hope the Council of State can do so anyway. If that's the case, and I repeat it, that together is not an indigenous population in the North Callot – and I say that there's doubt as to whether they are in Finnmark, and there's all the more doubt as to whether they are in Troms, because, as I said, most of the gatherings living in Troms, immigrated in the last hundred years from Sweden, that's a fact – you should not have any other treatment of together as an ethnic group than of any other ethnic group in the same area. It should be a clear principle if you believe in non-discrimination, if you believe in it to treat all people the same way. This means that signs have to be introduced in women’s language — obviously. We have to put the sign in Finnish, the sign in Urdu, actually. Does the Council of State see the problem that if cohabitation is not an indigenous population, the whole basis for this policy will be lost? Or is it that, in any case, together is to be treated as a special ethnic group in relation to all other groups, thereby helping to alienate the other ethnic groups living in Troms?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e204	I don't think we should prolong this debate. In Odelstinget, there's a very broad number of things that the government has put forward. A very broad plurality in the nation's national assembly recognizes together as indigenous people on the North Callot in Troms. We have therefore submitted a case and received full agreement. All parties, apart from the Progress Party, agree that Troms, from today on, can use both Norwegian and Sami names in reference to their state. With regard to the treatment in the county, I would like to remind you that there was no random treatment. The county covers an action plan on Sami languages and Sami cultural skills for the period 2002–2004. They did in December 2001. It has therefore been a choice of languages after the treatments which have given the same majority further support for the treatment of that plan, and thus further support for the introduction of a bilingual name for the Troms County today, an action plan that we have been working on for a long time and that has been on the agenda. There is broad support for the action plan underpinning the Troms County's request for a bilingual name to be given to its county. So I'm recording that the Progress Party is sadly alone and does not recognise its natives' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e219	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e248	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e261	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e273	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30-lower.ana.ud203e303	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
