ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e57	The President of the Storting, Thorbjørn Jagland, and the representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, André Oktay Dahl, Sigrun Eng, Lars Sponheim and Heikki Holmås, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Anna Ljunggren from 6 December onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Knut Petter Torgersen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e96	Knut Petter Torgersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e110	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and that the other speakers be given a speaking time of 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group – within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e117	The world is in total change. The growth of the new economies will change our everyday lives. A sustained and strong growth in countries such as India and China, but also in countries such as Russia and Brazil, is likely to be more effective globally than the fall of the Berlin Wall. Because this development is gradual and cannot be fixed to a special date or to a specific event, this development becomes less remarkable than it should. The growth of the new economies has many sides. Of course, it is positive for the hundreds of millions who are being lifted out of poverty to a more dignified life, but this growth also has negative aspects, such as: environmental problems. Throughout history, strong economies have always led to greater influence, and there is every reason to believe that the new economies will become more active. This will change the balance of power in the world. The fight for resources is likely to be one of the most important challenges in the years to come. We see it all when it comes to energy supply. This issue is increasingly on the international agenda. We see this in relation to the European Union and its Green Paper on energy. We see it in relation to the United States and their desire to become less oil addicts, and not least we see it in relation to China. Access to oil and gas now appears to be the main driver of Chinese foreign policy. In particular, this seems to be the case in Africa, where China is currently leading a very active policy directed towards those countries that have such resources. Combined with an explicit policy not to interfere with other countries’ internal conditions, this creates new challenges, including for Norway. The fight against corruption and poor governance is complicated by China's active policies. Access to energy resources also appears to be decisive for China’s role in international conflicts. It is best that we see this in relation to Sudan and the process that the international community is running towards Darfur, where the entire international community – with the exception of China – exerts strong pressure on the Sudanese authorities. When we know that 60 pst. We're looking at a clear context here. There is therefore reason to be concerned about China's impact on Africa's development. Global developments are giving us new challenges at many levels in Norway, and we need to adapt our policies to meet these challenges. It has to be done in several areas, and it will also have to be done in relation to our foreign policy. I'm glad that the Government is working on a new strategy for Africa. I am also pleased that the Government is proposing extra aid to Africa. A cut, as proposed by the Progress Party and the Right, is not only negative for the frames, but it will also give you a larger fit and an action space, for example. for China. We have to say that when it does not apply to the budget we are dealing with today, there is a comprehensive alternative to the Government’s approach – rather the opposite. The biggest difference between the Committee's configuration this year and last year is that Right has separated layers from its former government partners and the rest of the majority. Despite the fact that the Right promised the opposite last year, they are now back where they have traditionally been. Right no longer belongs to the wide multiple here in the room that wants to have at least 1 pst. GNI shall provide assistance. For the Right, it's no longer enough for us to use 99 pst. on ourselves. We have to be able to say that for the Right, it is more important to give tax relief to rich Nordics than to give an extra scar to the poorest in the world. Now it's not the first time Right cuts the aid, but as far as I know, it's the first time they cut in this way. The great cut in humanitarian aid is going down on the weakest of the weakest. This is the money that is set aside to help in emergency situations that may arise, money to go to refugees and internally displaced and other deferred groups. It surprises me that Right believes these people will benefit from reduced import protection, which I understand is Right's option. Here we are talking about people who can barely fathom themselves and who so far have nothing to export. The party of progress is increasing its budget for emergency aid. It is consistent, because with the Progress Party's budget, there will be more need in the world. However, the rest of the budget is not consistent. The party of progress, which otherwise has money for most purposes, halves the aid. Of course, it will have dramatic consequences for those who will be affected. Norway's ability to help will also be dramatically reduced. By discontinuing state-to-state support and channelling all support through voluntary organisations, one makes poor countries eternal clients and dependent on support in the overcrowded future. All knowledge shows that one of the pillars of a positive development is a functioning state. It is strange, therefore, that the Progress Party will remove the aid for state construction and thus take from the poor countries the opportunity to stand on their own. The party of progress often speaks strongly against terrorism. But the Progress Party's cut is in and is forming the Grobot for new. The party of progress in relation to the Middle East is a recipe for new unrest and extremism. Desperate people often perform desperate actions. If the whole of the West were to act like the Progress Party, it would also open up to further influence from Iran in this area. The whole of the international community seems to agree that if one is to succeed in Afghanistan, a positive development will be decisive. It requires additional assistance. Although the Progress Party claims otherwise, the Progress Party's alternative budget will lead to dramatic cuts here too, which will provide even better ground for the Taliban and other extreme groups. The government is proposing to improve the control of the assistance being provided. By increasing the focus on the measurement of development results, we will gain knowledge about what works and what does not work. By better reporting, we can get much better and fact-based discussions about what level and device to use in Norwegian aid. I am pleased with the commitment of the Government also when it applies to the fight against corruption. This is decisive for the trustworthiness of Norwegian aid. I note that the Progress Party makes strong comments on the need for control. But there won't be much control over the budget that the Progress Party puts up, because they have removed all the permissions for such purposes. The growth in the aid budget is the largest ever, and we are now approaching the goal of 1 pst. of GNI. That's good. But it's important not to get so suspended in the quantity that we forget about the content. It is right to concentrate support from Norway both geographically and in relation to content. It is positive that the Government is now following up on the priorities of areas that have previously been agreed upon. I thought quality testifies to the fact that even with such strong growth, internal priorities have also taken place. The Nordic region is the main strategic focus of the Government. This has led to a consistent and active policy since the change of government, and on Friday, the Northern Region of Regeningen was presented. It is a follow-up to the work started, but with the addition of a number of concrete projects to be carried out. It is very important to involve Russia in the development of this area and in general. Unfortunately, there seems to be some negative developments in Russia at the moment. Of course, it is important that we point this out in all contexts where we are dealing with Russian powers. Norway shall not take tactical considerations in relation to issues of speech and press freedom or other fundamental human rights issues. But it is also important that we keep the dialogue going. One must avoid the isolation of Russia and the rebuilding of a wall between East and West in Europe. Norway must play an active role in those forums where it is possible, whether it is in NATO, in the OSCE, in the Council of Europe or in other bodies. We have to note that there is a great deal of upsurge in the Great Britain about the budget presented by the Government and the policy mentioned in the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e160	The head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs stated that we should not be so preoccupied with quantity that we do not look at the quality of the aid, and that was an important and good signal. I would like to ask the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee whether he and the government parties, the prevailing majority, are ever in doubt when you look at the impact of the aid policy that has been in place in recent decades, if you don't see that it hasn't produced the results that were promised. Isn't there any reason to make some drastic changes and admit that popping on with ever-increasing crowns isn't the way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e165	I have no doubt that the aid will work. I would say that internationally is one of the biggest problems that too few countries present in the same way as Norway is both in relation to international organisations such as the United Nations and other relief organisations and in relation to the state-to-state assistance. This does not mean that there are not enough examples of things that have failed. That is why it is crucial, especially for those of us who believe that assistance is important, that we have a good control, that we make sure that we evaluate every now and then, and that we not least take lessons from the evaluations, so that, if there are projects that are not successful, we ensure that in the future, we prioritise the areas that are successful. But when that's said, I think it's absolutely crucial for the further development in the world that several countries do like Norway and set up. Should we get to e.g. The UN's Millennium Goals, it is not possible if we were to lead the Progress Party's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e172	I think the representative Aksen should think through the word 'cut'. The draft budget proposed by the Right involves 2.5 pst. increase in assistance in relation to the current year, and based on the Government's attempt to claim that it did not cut it when the reduced appropriations last year in a number of areas compared to priorities set by the Bondevik II government, because it was more than one year earlier, one should perhaps be consistent. But the most important and radical thing we do in our budget option is to address the third part of the demands of the international world from developing countries towards the Western world, and that is to do something about our customs barriers. It's a much more radical move to get development in the Third World than it's spending 1 to 1.5 billion more on aid. What does Akssen mean by the need to do something about customs cuts, also bilaterally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e179	It is obvious that the way in which a comment is cut, I have noticed it varies a little over time. But the thing that's quite clear is that when it comes to the common goal we've had to reach 1 pst. by GNI, right in this budget takes a step in the wrong direction, and, as far as I understand, they also do not support the idea that this should be a goal. That's why I think there's a basis for saying that the Right Cuts in this case. When it comes to trade, I totally agree with the Right that trade is decisive if we are to get the poor countries with us into the world. That is why I am also a strong supporter of the WTO. I thought that Norway should play a very active role there and that through the WTO we should outline what our solutions should be. But I have no faith that one can cut humanitarian aid, as Right does in its budget, and at the same time outline that one will remove some customs duties in Norway and thus help the same people. So the most important thing for me when it comes to trade is to support the work done in the WTO, and Norway, of course, must also be there and take the consequences of what will be the end result when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e186	The chairperson of the Committee was concerned with the need to strengthen efforts in Africa. The Ministry has informed the Committee on Questions from the Christian People's Party that Africa's share of Norwegian aid in 2005 fell below 40 p.m., mainly due to exceptional relief needs in Asia following the tsunami and the earthquake in Pakistan. At the same time, we know that the G8 Group has signalled that they will double aid to Africa between 2004 and 2010. In the committee position, there is a note in which the majority emphasises the importance of the strong concentration of Norwegian bilateral aid to Africa, that it must continue. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway cannot have a weaker target for Africa than the G8 countries, the world's richest country. Does the Workers' Party agree with this? Can we assume that the Labour Party too would like Norway to aim for a doubling similar to that set by the G8 countries as its ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e191	What must be decisive for the assistance provided by Norway is the needs of the beneficiary countries, and unfortunately, the situation in Africa is such that everything indicates that the assistance there will go up. We in the Labour Party, and to the extent that the majority in the Committee, have been somewhat skeptical that we should already commit ourselves to percentages of what will be aid next year, or for that matter in five years' time. That doesn't mean we're downprioritising Africa, but as we've done before, situations in other parts of the world may arise that make us need to prioritize those areas either in a single year or over a period. But what I feel pretty sure about is that the distance between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party here is very small, and at least I want to hope that we won't make him bigger than he is by having a discussion about these questions. Because I think that when it applies to the device otherwise, we should be able to get some.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e196	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e200	I know the representatives of the other parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee so well that I know with certainty that there is a great deal of goodwill, commitment and strong desire to solve the poverty challenge among all these parties. Not only does everyone speak loudly about it, they show it by active action, and I am not a moment in doubt that my colleagues have the best intentions when it comes to promoting development. So the problem for developing countries is not that nobody cares, or that nobody tries to help. On the contrary, many times the giver's joy overflows. The problem is rather about results and willingness to pursue an effective and targeted policy that not only limits damage but addresses the long-term structural problems. Now you might think that after a few years or decades with the same prescription and getting results, you would change the policy. But no, then you just increase the dose. I am impressed by this perseverance and the willingness to give politics a new chance, year after year. Now it's not the voters in the recipient countries who put together the Norwegian economy, and it's not easy to know what the people who actually feel the effect of the policy being pursued feel. Perhaps some of the challenges lie here: Are we able to add to old stuff of thought and ingrained habits in order to listen, learn and develop? Measured against the results, perhaps some could be tempted to blame the problems in Africa on those politicians who have been in power, among others. Norway. But it would be deeply unfair, because we know that it has never been in the interest of any Norwegian politician to extend the difficulties for Africa. Unfortunately, though, the reality is brutal, it's overwhelming, and it challenges us. It challenges us to go in ourselves, to look at what we're doing, and of course what we're not doing. When the Progress Party in this debate in post-intervention speeches will be met with hard attacks, then spend some time reflecting on the impact of your own policies. When was the last time an idea was accepted outside the established aid environment? I would like to commend the Minister of Development and the Government parties for addressing some of the challenges we have pointed out. The UN and the role of the World Bank must be looked at. This is good. One should start making demands, and then it was with a certain degree of arrogance that one noticed that the Christian People's Party was quick to criticize the Minister of Development in order now to make the necessary demands to the United Nations. One is offensive in the fight against corruption – very good. We actually experience under this government a willingness to think new and lift some rocks. But unfortunately, the basic steps that could give a new boost to development policy are lacking in our opinion. I would like to briefly point to four elements in which we believe it is right to bet. The first is trade. Much remains to be done here, and if Norway wants to be first among those who care for the interests of developing countries, heavy concessions should be made in the field of agriculture in the WTO negotiations and encourage the EU, the United States and others to follow suit. In our view, hiding behind is not. It is not possible to hide behind the heavy actors. We should go ahead and show way. The second is indebted, where the government has done some good, but where it is possible to bet more. Here we refer to good and offensive committee comments. The third is industrial development in developing countries, where we believe there is a need for new approaches. The fourth is microcredit, which, in our view, is a great way for poor people to be integrated into the market and thus create development for themselves, their families and therefore also the local and big community. We therefore promote our own proposal asking for microcredit to be given a greater place in Norwegian development policy. Our alternative budget is offensive and undoubtedly shows a new course. Now, in such a proposal, you can probably find individual elements that, with the background of current policies, are dramatic, and for many, perhaps also incomprehensible. We feel that, through comments, we have made a thorough presentation of our vision. But communication is demanding, and in some areas we could probably have been even clearer. Our cut on top. 164 concerned the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it's serious. We don't dismiss such criticism. On the contrary, we take it with us for future work. But that the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going to make peace work the closest to an overall objective and – as I say – a very high-priority Norwegian sport, we do not necessarily have a sense of it. We believe Norway should take on tasks where we have natural prerequisites to contribute. But we cannot get there that we are constantly looking for conflicts to engage in. Now it's not necessarily so that the more money we spend, the more peace we get. My impression is that there are very many places where there is no money. When we make a sharp priority, we must also ask for respect for it, without getting the characteristic that we should be peace-friendly. Nor are we of the general opinion that there will be more peace just more Norwegian politicians and diplomats putting on the mediation hat and trying to talk to different groups. But this is a serious topic, and it's not a black-and-white answer. As I said, we have constructive advice in mind and will seek to find solutions that take care of both basic Norwegian interests and that promote peace and stability. At the same time, we cannot fail to record that questions are also asked in academic circles about the role Norway plays in the international arena, whether it is natural, whether it is constructive and whether it produces the results that we want it to deliver. The Northern Region bet of this government, which is a continuation of the work of the previous government, is good and important, and we hope words become action. Russia and our relationship with this country are one of the most important aspects of such work. We believe it is important to anchor our relationship with Russia on the basis of competence in geography and history. There is a lot of expertise in the U.D. and it needs to be preserved and strengthened. It is not necessary to give the impression – whether it is right or wrong – that north-eastern policy is now in the process of ‘outsources’ to academic institutions or others. It must be firmly anchored in the Office and, above all, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Progress Party is not opposed to the bet being made. We're asking for more. There's one area where we spend more money. Our priorities include: more for health work in Russia, not least as regards those affected by multi-resistance tuberculosis. Nordic policy must become more than a barnt regional policy. Norway must be visible and clear. This requires a broad range of activities in diplomacy, industry and research and other relevant activities. We must work actively in relation to the relationship with the United States, Canada and Russia, which is very important in this way. It requires a national effort and, in our opinion, a focus on foreign policy. It is not that there are tasks to engage in internationally. A lot is important, and a lot is exciting, but maybe we should dry up a tougher priority debate. It'll never be that it's only right to focus on your own neighborhood and your own backyard and to forget the rest of the world. But it can't be wrong to look at your own neighbourhoods first and then address challenges in other parts of the world. Now it's claimed that Norwegian involvement at different international arenas gives us access to e.g. Washington, an access that should theoretically be used to promote Norwegian views, for example: in the north. This argument can be used to stop any debate, and it is not, in our opinion, that this is necessarily correct. In any case, it is wrong to claim that the more we are engaged in, for example. Latin America, the stronger the Norwegian positions around Svalbard. We believe in a stronger priority and a stronger focus on core tasks, and we are addressing that kind of debate in the future. In conclusion, I would be allowed to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on what has emerged today in connection with a new NATO request for a troops contribution to South Afghanistan, whether it is right that such a request has been made, and whether it is right that the Government has once again chosen to say no to such an enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e241	First, I want to correct the misunderstanding that there is a majority in the Norwegian economy that has an influence on international aid policy. On the contrary, it is the Progress Party which has international support for its policy. That's why I think it's going to be wrong to measure developments in Africa based on what's happening here in this room. But I have a question of a more strategic nature. I pointed out in my post that China is now increasingly active in Africa. They drive, among others. with oil exploration in 17 countries. They have 80,000 Chinese workers building port facilities, roads, etc. We know that China has completely different values than what we have, and they also share in keeping alive some of the despots that might otherwise have got a worse destiny. We also know that in the Middle East, Iran still wants to develop its influence. My question is: does not the Progress Party see that if the West withdraws from these countries, there are entirely other types of political systems that will fill the vacuum that will then arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e250	We are also concerned about the impact, among other things. China has in Africa. Now, fortunately, we see that in several African states there is a reaction to the grip that China is trying to attach, and one looks around in different directions. We believe – and I have mentioned this in this Chamber earlier – that an opportunity is to be in a closer energy policy dialogue with China. We are pleased that the Government has chosen, by prominent state councils, to visit China and look at cooperation, try to address China's concerns, namely energy supplies, and look at their own efficiency, among other things. in the case of coal-fired power stations, so that they can come into a position where they do not have to behave like that in Africa and Latin America, which unfortunately we see a lot of examples of today. So we believe there are several ways to the goal, and that maintaining Norwegian aid policy as a buffer against the Chinese is not necessary what leads to the best result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e259	The right is pleased that emphasis is placed on the importance of trade in what comes from the Progress Party, and it is also reflected in the common comments in the budget. One thing, of course, is to discuss how much of the big profit we have in this country, we're going to spend in this budget. But if we see that these are active things, such as: opening up to trade that will sting a little bit for ourselves and do a little harm, but which is useful for others, it becomes all the more important to find that consensus. My question to the Progress Party will then be, as a follow-up to the joint comment: Where in the budget will we find support for the customs cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e268	It's quite right, as the representative Vallersnes says, that we're with the Right on these questions. We have in this room constantly raised the desire to be more offensive in terms of trade liberalisation. There has been a red thread in our policy as long as I have been sitting on the Stortinget. I think we're very offensive here. We were offensive, we demanded more liberalisation under the previous government, represented by the representative of Vallersnes, and we demand more liberalisation now. We are pleased that the Right agrees with us on these comments now, and we hope that we can continue constructive cooperation on trade for the benefit of developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e275	Høglund said that one must address the long-term structural problems, and showed, among other things, that there is a need to address the long-term structural problems. to Africa. Now most African countries are the most obedient to neoliberal demands, among other things. IMF and World Bank. The situation is shown, among others: in Mozambique, where cashewnut production has been destroyed, and in Uganda, where they have complied with the requirements. But that's not what I was going to deal with. It is important to ask whether the Progress Party as a large and serious party will prevent conflicts, or whether the answer is always bullets and powdered. Let's go to Afghanistan. There, Siv Jensen assured that it was not going to be on civil contributions to the construction of Afghanistan. Now the Progress Party in Asia's regional allocation cuts, so that there's less to it, among other things. Afghanistan than that used in 2005. Didn't the Progress Party seriously mean when there was a unanimous agreement that there was more to bet on civil development in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e282	First, I will be allowed to comment on the World Bank and neoliberalism. We have been, and are still, strongly critical of the role of the World Bank and share so far many of the concerns raised here. I don't necessarily have much to do with how the World Bank has ranked in many contexts. I believe that what is produced as neoliberalism here, at least has not produced the results and has not been the kind of neoliberalism and market thinking that we necessarily support. So we will not take responsibility for the World Bank's policy. We mean what we say in relation to Afghanistan. We have tried as best as possible to shield the allocation to Afghanistan, and this is also evident in the budget position. We see the need to build civil society and constructive NATO operations go hand in hand. We are trying together here to provide a basis for a positive development of Afghanistan. We mean what we say, and we've tried as best we can to do it through our budgetary settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e289	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e292	Like the Government's budget proposal, the Right's proposals represent growth compared to 2006. As the mandate of the revised national budget, we will help to maintain the level of the aid budget, but without committing ourselves to the percentage. Our proposal represents an increase in the aid budget by 2.5 p.m., or 720 million. kr more than in the aged budget for 2006, a total of DKK 19.3 billion. This gives an aid rate of 0.9 p.m., while the government, which grants SEK 1.5 billion more in aid, ends up at 0.97 p.m. In both cases, this is far more than the UN's 0.7 pst target. of GNI and place Norway at the top of the world. So the Foreign Minister's statement in today's Newspaper that the Right Cutters in the Assistance falls on their own unfairness. For the treatment two years ago of Stmeld. No 35 for 2003-2004 on a comprehensive development policy showed a number of committees consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party to the Communication, where it was established that for most developing countries, improving market access for their goods and services in developed countries would be more important than the overall transfers of assistance they receive. The right is prepared to take the consequences of this. We are committed to getting people from social security to work, that they can get their own income – get a place at the table. We want the same in development policy. High customs walls and assistance do not belong together: you take with one hand, and give with the other. The MUL countries already have tariff exemptions, but one third of Norway’s customs revenue, between 300 and 400 million. kr a year, comes from other u-country. The right will therefore cut all customs duties on developing countries during 2007. Some in this room look at market forces and development policies as if there were oil and water. We see it as important that developing countries open up to international financial markets. If entrepreneurs can only raise funding nationally, it can easily feed corruption. Competition with cheaper loans from the outside can discipline the entire economy. Norway should take a pragmatic view of the UN. Right is a member of a United Nations that works, a UN that delivers. The last UN needs uncritical support. It is now important to give clear information to the United Nations Member States about what Norway wants with the organisation. Prime Minister Stoltenberg participated in writing the report that threatens the loss of the world's poor and weak unless the UN is streamlined. Several countries do not want the report to be implemented. We think the Soria Moria policy of the Government is permeated by a romantic ideological view of what the United Nations is and could be. The UN reform process will take time, but before the organisation shows clearer signs of moving in the right direction with the reforms, implementing better coordination, target-oriented governance and significantly better evaluation of the results, the Right does not participate in further increase in the UN allocation, which is still our main aid channel with over DKK 4.3 billion. Then we have cut off in line with the Government's proposal, and partially re-prioritize it for the benefit of the World Bank. In the Right’s view, the World Bank has shown positive developments since the mid-1990s. As the Government's own investigation also shows, the preconditions are being reduced, and the requirements for liberalisation and privatisation are being replaced by recommendations where conditions are conducive to it, and increasingly in line with the country of destination. The Bank is also distinguished from multilateral institutions with a systematic evaluation of its own activities, supported by a dedicated development programme for evaluation methods. Demonstrated will and ability to transform and improve is something that gives us confidence. Enterprise development in developing countries is a priority area for the Right. In that work Norfund is an important tool. We observe with great turmoil the situation in and around Norfund. We take the consequences of this and reduce the allocation, but at the same time we propose a sharp increase in other nutrient-oriented budget lines. Now the Storting must demand that the Council of State clean up properly. All the facts must be on the table. There shall be a high focus on target management, results, revision and efficacy evaluation. It is important to remember that continued political will for high aid needs to be anchored in a broad understanding and motivation of the population, which will naturally ask: Are the funds being used correctly? Is the money in the pockets of the rulers and middlemen? Do we get the power? There is reason to warn against the naivety that can follow if idealism overshadows reality. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Dagbladet today asks which way to go Right, the answer is that we want to further develop Norwegian aid policy, but with a sharper eye for results and anti-corruption than the Council of State seems to be concerned about. Last week, prosecutorial councillor Solheim's political adviser Right to send many AIDS deaths due to lower budgeting of some UN posts. It would be interesting to know whether the adviser gave an opinion on behalf of the Council of State or whether this is also a result of ‘each man’s own foreign policy in SV’. The adviser’s claim is horrendous and abuses a patient group for the benefit of short-term political gain. The aid budget is not a Norwegian championship in surrender. There is a different approach to HIV and AIDS to the right than the Government, and we are more aware that, in addition to curative measures, there is a need to focus significantly more on prevention, among others. in the field of sexual health and reproductive health, nutrition and also institution building in the health care of countries. After the radio debates with the consultant last Monday, I have been contacted by a research community in AIDS that indicates that ongoing studies indicate a strong mutagenic long-term effect of the drugs used and that a particular problem in some African countries may be increased susceptibility to the virus due to particular nutritional deficiencies. Probably we should be several times less oblique about the value of purely curative treatment. If the next generation is influenced by mutations, we have charged them a high price. Time does not allow us to address important issues such as North-West Russia's situation, our rejection of the ideologically justified request for assistance from the Council of State to Latin America, or our joy in supporting the Committee's support for our comment on political killings in Russia. I would like to conclude with some views on the foreign policy situation and the challenges that may arise. In the Middle East, it is becoming increasingly clear how the Israel/Palestine conflict is related to the situation in the Great Region. Kofi Annan describes conditions in Iraq as worse than civil war. If there is a full-armed conflict between the three peoples, we risk the attempt to establish a Kurdistan draws Iran as well as Turkey. At the same time, Iran's regional major action ambitions are a growing headquarter for Saudi Arabia and Egypt, which in turn can see the merit of resolving the Israel/Palestina conflict in order to keep the infiltration from Syria and Iran at a distance. There may be new conflicts and wars here, but also openings for new political initiatives. Afghanistan is NATO's first priority. It also has to show again our willingness to deliver. If Iraq shows how difficult it can be when ex ante analyses do not take due account of the political and civil consequences, then Afghanistan has taught us how vital it is to ensure a balance between civil and military action on an ongoing basis. Both are necessary and mutually dependent. Hopefully, the West has gradually learned that the focus of reformers and moderates is also crucial in the face of Islam. They exist. That is why it is so important to ensure that the militant name of the fight maintains channels for dialogue. Another theme is Russia’s development, China’s growth and increasing international solstice, or increasing protectionism in the wake of the collapse of the WTO so far. I choose to end with how important it is that the fight against terrorism is not allowed to become a war against terror. War justifies the violation of democratic rules and the principles of the rule of law. The challenges are great, and how we meet them can be crucial for the future of our own value-based, good society. The large Norwegian aid budget is partly an indirect result of a number of wars and conflicts in the world that affect millions of people. Norway is probably a clear war profitor, whether we like it or not. War drives up the oil price and generates increased revenue to the country. We should have a humble relationship to this, and we should be careful with superlatives of the type we have seen in newspaper headlines as late as today, as ‘human superpower’, ‘peace nation’ or ‘largest give to one or the other’. Our active development policy should be coupled with a good portion of modesty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e338	During the Bondevik I government, the Right came seriously into the aid fold and contributed to a very broad majority of development policy in this Chamber. Now the right has signed out. Not only does the Right Dramatic Cut work, among other things. to vulnerable UN organisations – with some disastrous consequences – but what is perhaps equally interesting is that they are now, together with the Progress Party, outside ideological and fundamental remarks on development policy. So the right-hand side boasts that they're adding 10 million. The United Nations Women's Programme, but at the same time they cut 50 million. kr to the women-related assistance programme. So the net loss of women-related assistance is 40 million. kr with the right. My question is, was the Right Aid Williness in the last period only part of having peace with the government? And how will the Right relate to its former partners in terms of development policy below?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e347	As the statement showed, it is a deliberate misuse of terms, including: by the word ‘cut’. What we're talking about here are two alternatives to the budget that represent different degrees of increase compared to the previous year. I think it's going to be a little unworthy of it if someone from the Labour Party starts here into some kind of championship in who can add to the most. There is also an increase in the Right's budget. It was, as I said, at 2.5 pst. It's a good thing about the inflation effect. That we have a different device and distribution by the posts than the Workers' Party, I'm really taking quite a rest, because overall there's more money in the budget than it did the year before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e356	Kiving about the aid budget is often in volume – it is an endless debate – and, of course, whether it can be better. I can see that if a cut to improve a budget – if one is able to justify why it gets better from cuts. We are, regardless of social systems and ideology, largely a few of the two principles that should apply: human rights and the rule of law. If we look at what the Right has done in the budget this year, I'm a little scared: those who really are between the bark and the wood, those who are outside the TV channels, those who live in refugee camps, those who are outside all the negotiating tables, they want to cut right. When we see what Right Cuts – 350 million. kr for humanitarian aid and human rights – a question needs to be asked: How can the Right invent such a thing? In any case, it is not a contribution to making the assistance better, so that it reaches out to those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e365	This is going to be a pretty stereotyped and a little strenuous attempt to characterize a budget increase from our side that focuses on things other than what the government side does. For my part, I am all the more surprised that there is no support for the government parties – here SV – for the additional element we have brought into the debate, which concerns the trade side and bilateral commitments. I wish we could come to the conclusion that even the government parties would be willing to take action that might mean more to the development of these countries than our assistance, even if it would sting a little at home in relation to the support groups in the Norwegian society on which the parties depend.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e374	When the Christian People's Party and the Right took part in the same government, we agreed on a stepping up of aid towards 1 pst. of GNI. In the budget adopted today, we see, unfortunately, that the Right is not part of what we can call a broad aid package. Just as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party agreed that the new government cut off research in relation to the Bondevik II government, we must be able to agree that the Right Party actually cuts aid in relation to the government's proposal. I know the Right as a consistent party, and that's probably a consistent argument, I would think. That's why my question to the Right and the representative Vallersnes is: What does the Right want to go forward? If you want to maintain a goal of stepping up to 1 pst, or you want to go down against that representative himself, namely 0.7 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e383	It will hardly come as a surprise – if you were to join the debate on the revised budget before the summer, but also on the basis of what has been presented in this budget by us, and as I have explained from the Chair today – that we are still committed to strengthening and further developing the aid budget. It's reflected in that we're increasing it by 2.5 pst, or 720 million. kr, compared to our last year's alternative. At the same time, we have avoided defining too many targets, including the aid rate. The percentage of assistance, which neither the Government has managed to get into 1, despite the expressed willingness to do so, is very dependent on a number of other factors, including: oil price and oil income to the country. I think it will be a lot more difficult for us to get a further increase in the budget when the oil price goes down. It's going to be a challenge when we get that far. The problem we have today is probably a luxury problem in terms of what it will be when the revenue in GNI drops.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e390	The cord shift is over. The President will give the floor to Mr Høglund to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e395	I would like to address the suggestions we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e400	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e403	The red-green government has given Norway a clearer voice for a more cohesive foreign and development policy. We have a foreign minister who takes the initiative and is a voice to which it will be listened, among other things. before the Riga Summit. We're on our way to what we promised, 1 pst. of gross domestic product for assistance and development – 1 pst. of our abundance to the poorest in the world. Human development is about giving each individual the opportunity to choose the life he or she wants to live. When Norway, together with 188 other countries in 2000, promised the world's poor to have freedom to live without poverty by 2015, with education and work, and with the possibility of good health and a long life, we committed ourselves to following the Millennium Goals. This is why the increase is up to 1 pst. the importance of gross domestic product for development. We have cleared the shameful debt that is a consequence of the shipping campaign, a debt that has burdened the poorest in Ecuador, Egypt, Jamaica, Peru and Sierra Leone. The principle of solidarity must not prevent unilateral debt cancellation. What it means for those who fight every day for a more solidarity world, I realized at the opening of the Globalization Conference here in Oslo this fall. Our development minister was given a pamphlet for this action. Not only is it a great inspiration for these, it was said, but it is also a challenge for other countries and institutions — such as the United Kingdom. The World Bank, which through liberalisation requirements contributed to the ruin of Mozambique’s cashew nut production – to take responsibility as borrowers. It is good to know about all the organisations, both nationally and internationally, that have given feedback and have shown joy over the efforts of the Government in relation to women and gender equality. Women’s appropriations are back in the external budget — a special appropriation to intensify work with women and gender equality. The evaluation of the U.D. Women’s Strategy showed the need for targeted action for women and gender equality. The woman's 200-million-dollar budget. kr is an answer to this evaluation. It shall be part of a comprehensive strategy and not replace a process of integration. If the world is to achieve the Millennium Goals, something must be done to stop the feminisation of poverty. 70-80 pst. of the poorest in the world are women and their children. Young girls and women need to be offered equivalent education and jobs to boys and men. Efforts must be made to strengthen women's reproductive and sexual rights and health. Worldwide, 19 million uncertain abortions are carried out each year. 97 pst. they occur in developing countries. Every year, 68,000 women die from abortion-related complications. Poor women, in many cases, cannot afford to pay for the abortion they want to commit for various reasons and have been commended without health education. The fact that the government is now working internationally to decriminalise abortion and to give women the right to safe abortion is an important signal from a country such as Norway. The support to the Global Fund for Safe Abortion and to the International Family Planning Organisation is important and contributes as a counter-power to the Bush, Vatican and the most fundamentalist Islamic forces. One of the consequences of the Democrats' victory is hopefully that the United States is getting out of this anti-female alliance. As a follow-up to the discussions on the serious and complex situation in Afghanistan, it is important that the budget for 2007 is strengthened by the United Kingdom’s humanitarian and civil efforts. If we are to be able to help the Afghans and Afghanistan succeed in democratic development and construction, we must be clear spokespersons to ensure that the conflict is not won militarily alone but with increased civil commitment. A report from The Senlis Council earlier this autumn showed that over the past five years, the international community has spent ten to eleven times more on military efforts than on civil construction and development in Afghanistan. We have to turn this around. The objective must be to use 11 times more on development. Here I want to give feedback to the Progress Party, because it is not that they maintain the level of civil construction in Afghanistan. The cuts they make mean that the total regional appropriations allocated to Asia are less than that used in Afghanistan in 2005. An interesting article in the International Herald Tribune describes the arms rest agreement between the British and the Taliban in Musa Quala, Helmand Province — an initiative taken by the elderly in order to strengthen the forces against the Taliban. There are probably different opinions about this agreement, but people use at least the time now to strengthen the community. I believe that these are processes built on Afghan traditions and that one must look at them more closely. In Afghanistan, too, it is important to focus on women-settled measures. A possible backlash for women in Afghanistan is now reported. The thinking surrounding Resolution 1325 must be put into practice in an even stronger way. There must be a women's effort in all areas. This may be an important contribution from Norway to women in Afghanistan. Norway has a leading role to play in advancing an international ban on classammunition. This makes Norway a credible player in the work on a ban, because we have made sure to clean up our own home before asking others to do the same. The objective is an international ban on the types of Class Ammunition which have unacceptable humanitarian adverse effects. It is important both for humanitarian reasons and to contribute to the reconstruction and development of areas of conflict and war. This is something that people in Laos, Afghanistan and Lebanon can teach us. The government is betting on Norway as a peace nation. That is why we are providing financial support for peace building processes in other countries, and we are supporting the peace movement's work here at home. Norway has a diversity of peace organisations that contribute both to debate, to international knowledge and to a broad public commitment. For SV, it has been important to strengthen this work. We are therefore pleased that the cuts made by the previous government in support of the peace movement are now not only reversed, but that we have got an increase. There's actually a group committee behind it. When the UN Development Fund, UNDP, published its annual Human Development Report earlier this autumn, it focused on power, poverty and the global water crisis. Access to water and good sanitation have proven to be a prerequisite for human development throughout history. Today, 1 to 2 billion people live without clean water, and every year 1.8 million children die of diarrhoea and other diseases caused by lack of clean water. The water crisis of the world is not only caused by scarcity of water, but poverty, management and crooked power make water an even scarcer good. Those living in the slum areas of Nairobi and Jakarta pay more for their water than the inhabitants of New York or Oslo. Norway, together with Bolivia and NGOs, is in front of the right to clean water, to water as a common good. And it's not random that it happens with Bolivia, because it's just where poor people have been paid the price for large multinational companies taking power over water resources. In the environmental action plan prepared by the Government, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable natural resource management is priority no. 1st@item: inlistbox Barriers are local participation, strengthening the rights of local people to natural resources, a partnership between organisations that can environment here with us, and the environmental movement in both our neighbourhoods and in the poorest countries. Not least in the context of environmental cooperation with Brazil, where the conservation of biodiversity in the Amazon region is a major effort. But here, too, we're celebrating for our own door if we're going to have credibility out in the world. While poor Brazil has protected 20 pst. of the rainforest, and Rwanda requires the authorisation of those to trap trees, we have protected only 1.4 pst. of our forest. The seriousness of climate change is beginning to rise to global decision-makers. ‘Best parents require a responsible climate policy’, we could read in the paper yesterday. Action is required, especially by us and all other rich countries, if generations after us are to have a future. Climate change has the greatest consequences for Africa, which is 70 pst. liver of agriculture. The Stern report, which has made a mistake in most, shows that this must be taken seriously if the world is not to go against a greater misery.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e433	The NATO resistance of the Socialist Left came up to the surface earlier this fall, when the Government rejected the request from NATO to send forces to South Afghanistan. Several from SV stood up and claimed that this was a victory for their vision. That the government sends unclear signals in this matter, is no exaggeration. This weekend there were positive signals from the prime minister, and today we can read that the government has once again refused an enquiry from NATO. Even more unclear is it far from SV. In the setting we are discussing today, we can read that SV believes that the stabilisation of Afghanistan is a very important task for Norway as NATO ally, and that the countries involved, including Norway, need to increase their total contribution – which also implies military contributions. Has SV now turned 180 degrees in this case? And does this mean that SV now supports sending Norwegian special forces to South Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e440	SV is a party opposed to NATO. There's no doubt about it. But we are part of a government based on NATO accession, and we loyally support that. The stabilisation of Afghanistan is about something much, much more than sending even more soldiers. It's not that we can just send more soldiers, and then this war is won. The Progress Party must also gradually begin to understand. There is a need for a concerted effort here, where political processes and developments need much, much greater space. There has also been a message from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I understand has been well received, that the world will eventually see that the Afghans will succeed – for that is what this is all about – it needs to speed up political processes, develop, and then the military contributions must be there to support these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e447	It could have been tempting to follow up on the previous question and ask whether SV has now changed its position in relation to its batch programme in terms of withdrawing from NATO, following the positive review in the joint opinion. But I can leave it at this point. I remember that in the last growing-up period, SV would throw the governor out of the IMF board. Earlier in the fall, the Right asked the Government about whether this was the government's policy, and was told that it was not. Has SV changed its mind on this matter and is it now satisfied with the way we represent ourselves in the governing bodies of the IMF?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e454	It is a goal of this government to get a fairer participation from all countries in the IMF. There's a process going on, and we're going to work on this. But the most important thing is to see if the IMF and the World Bank really follow up on what is going to happen for development. Then we have a government that also says that there should be no support for programmes requiring liberalisation and privatisation. And that's a very important requirement, in relation to, for example, developments in Africa. Now the government has also taken an initiative to look at the so-called conditionalities of the World Bank and the IMF, and it turns out that there is a improvement in, for example, the situation. The World Bank. However, liberalisation and privatisation are still required. This is a process that this government is going to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e461	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e464	Norway is perceived by some as a nation, and we are enough of ourselves. The first part of the claim is unquestionably true, we got confirmation during the financial debate. Private consumption, when new record levels, is increasing almost as much public consumption. Norway is one of the richest nations in the world. Our gross national income is expected next year to rise to a staggering NOK 2 150 billion, nearly half a million per. the population. So it was statement number two, we're ourselves enough. Today's treatment of the foreign budget gives us a new opportunity to dismiss that claim. Destructive governments have contributed over a number of years to increasing aid to the poor countries of the world. We are approaching the escalation target, that Norway should provide at least 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. Norway is not self-sufficient. One hundred percent of our wealth isn't much to give up, but it's actually enough to raise Norway to the top in international aid statistics. There is no reason for self-satisfaction. Nest love is a moral obligation. Development policy is not about charity, but about justice. The contrast between Norwegian prosperity and poverty in many cooperating countries is unimaginable. We have far over a hundred times more to route per. the population. Never has the need for international solidarity been greater. Norway has never had a greater chance of showing it. Therefore, there are two things that particularly please me in a larger aid policy perspective. One is that development is producing results: the proportion of poor people is falling. The second is that a certain amount of helplessness before the turn of the century has been replaced by increased ambitions of the world's most powerful. The World Economic Act, the G8 Group, has committed itself to doubling aid to Africa over the six years from 2004 to 2010. It gives a legitimate hope that we can eliminate extreme poverty in our lifetime – if we want to. Everyone with insight knows that there is a variety of factors that determine whether countries succeed in social and economic development. Success is counteracted by factors such as conflict and war, poor governance and corruption, infectious diseases and epidemics, climate deterioration and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, droughts and desertification. Progress is encouraged when the framework conditions are improved, then international assistance, trade, investment and the efforts of the population themselves can make returns and growth easier. Especially then, what we really get to see the results, see that assistance is useful. Valuable progress has been made: The dangerous disease of cups was eradicated in 1977, a target that the world community set itself in 1965.Children's mortality due to diarrhoea was halved from 1990 to 2000.The proportion of young children vaccinated increased from 30 pst. in 1980 to 80 p.m. In 2000, the proportion of the world’s poor fell by 6pst. from 1990 to 2003. Many of our cooperating countries have had difficult conditions. Nevertheless, there is progress to track: With microloans for the poor, many millions have managed to become self-held. This is now appreciated by the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to Muhammad Yunus in a few days.In Tanzania, the proportion of children in school in a few years has increased from 59 to a total of 91 p.m.Vaccination programmes and strengthened health services are saving more and more from life-threatening, contagious diseases. Aid alone is not enough. But when someone claims it's not money it's on, reality shows something else. World-renowned economist Jeffrey D. Sachs has written a thought-provoking book called The end of power, in which he draws a heartbreaking picture of the situation from Malawi — one of the countries completely at the other end of the scale where Norway is at the top. In a hospital clinic, 450 people receive effective treatment for HIV/AIDS. They're getting fresh. Right across the hall, in the bed room, there are those who can't afford to pay the one dollar of the day it costs to get treatment. They lie on top of each other, up to three in each bed. They're there to die. It's the one dollar that makes the difference. Money counts. Assistance is beneficial. We Nordics belong to the rich minority of the globe. But most live in developing countries, and there are most poor people. Through the assistance we share with them. This is why the aid deserves the term ‘most people’s policy’. For this reason, aid escalation also deserves the support of all the parties of the Storting, not least from those who most often claim to fight for ‘most people’. But it's not like that. I just have to say that the Progress Party will give more to the richest and less to the poorest – who are most people in the developing world. Even if the Advance Party gives itself 23 billion extra oil at its disposal, they choose to cut down 10 billion dollars on the aid budget. Understand the one who can. It's almost a halve, and it's actually a fury. I'm sorry, I'm not surprised. That is why I am not disappointed with the attitude of the Progress Party today, just infinitely sad. The negative surprise in today's budgeting comes from someone I had expected more of. For four years, the Right-wing Solidarity was behind the increase in aid by the Cooperative Government, year by year. The Court’s national meeting last took a decision on aid policy that pointed out and raised. Now the political direction indicator has a break. Now the arrow is pointing down. EUR 1.5 billion will be cut right into the aid budget adopted today. Measured as a percentage of GNI, it will reduce the aid escalation by about a decade. I just have to note that the Right is moving not only away from the aid goal, but also away from the political center – and away from the Christian People's Party. In this budget, the Christian People's Party has chosen to give priority to one issue first: an increase in the position of voluntary organisations. We're glad that we've been through, both the government parties and the left are involved in creating a majority for this. Let's add up to 40 million. additional to the assistance of voluntary organisations. What makes the disappointment of the Voting Right today extra big is that the Right will grant at least everyone the assistance of the voluntary organisations – even less than the Advance Party. Still, it's a lot positive to focus on. The addition of voluntary organisations corrected a weak point. It does, to quote Jon Lilletun, a good budget even better. The government’s proposal meant that the allocation item of their long-term assistance came out with a reduced real value. Forty million. In addition, it is our hope that we will avoid being cut short in the multiannual framework agreements that NORAD will conclude next year with important and good cooperation actors. I would like the Minister of Aid to confirm this. This concerns the Norwegian Mission Council’s Department of Assistance, the Atlas Alliance for Assistance for the Disabled and Focus, the Women’s Organization’s Assistance Body. We are pleased that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee specifies that we should keep up the concentration on Africa – the world’s poorest continent. On questions from the Christian People's Party, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that Africa's share of Norwegian aid in 2005 fell below 40 p.p., mainly due to acute aid needs in Asia. Now Africa's share has to rise again. The world's financial powers promised at the Gleneagles meeting in 2005 to double Africa's aid in six years. Norway, in the view of the Christian People's Party, should not be worse, we should have the same ambition. I've used most of this post to talk about the south, but I also want to talk a little bit about the north. We will give our full support to strengthening and coordinating cooperation in the north. We must have great ambitions in the north. It is of particular importance to ensure sound resource management. We have a common interest in reducing vulnerability to environmental disasters and nuclear accidents. We have a common interest in combating infectious diseases and stopping cross-border crime. Voluntary people-to-people cooperation, tourism and student and cultural exchanges are positive contributions. It can provide additional benefits in terms of mutual trust, security and the development of civil society that strengthens democracy. The representative Jan Sahl will examine the views of the Christian People's Party on this part of the budget. Finally, I would like to stress that we must actively meet the major challenges we face, both in the south and in the north. The budget takes important steps in the right direction in both of these areas. We are the generation that has the greatest resources at its disposal in relation to what some generation of northern men have ever had. We have historical opportunities to do something about the great injustice in the world, and in our view we have a moral duty to do what we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e528	The representative of the Højbrätten goes into a massive attack, and we can live with that. If the representative Højbrätten had gone through our remarks – and I am sure the representative has done – and looked a little on the back porch, it is not, as we experience it, lack of solidarity with the people most of the poor countries. It's just people most we want to take seriously. Does not the High Commissioner agree that, at least at the macro level, the results of the aid policy that has been pursued have been disappointing? Child mortality has not declined after many years of bilateral Norwegian assistance to countries south of Africa. The promise for the poor has not happened. Does not the representative, Højbrätten, then agree that there is a need to re-enter the terrain?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e535	I showed in my contribution a number of good results that show progress in the fight against poverty in the world. That there are examples that we have not achieved our goals, we are fully aware of. But the answer to that is to halve the effort, halve the ambitions in an economic sense, is completely incomprehensible to me. I would like to take a discussion about how we can make assistance more effective. I would like to take a discussion about how we can even more effectively combat corruption, and will praise the Government for strengthening and continuing the work that was already underway from the previous government there. When you have an extra NOK 23 billion to spend, it is incomprehensible that you should also halve the assistance, to spend all of this extra money in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e540	I understand that the representative Dagfinn Højbråten is disappointed with the Right Alternative Budget, but I want to draw attention to the main measure to lift people out of poverty. Over the last 16 years, we have lifted millions of people out of poverty in the world, not primarily because of aid, but because of increased international trade, and it is countries that have managed to lift people out of their own way because of increased economic growth. Our option is about three different pillars that are important. The three pillars, which are also occupied by third world countries, are firstly debt relief. We follow what the Government has done and think it is a good initiative. Secondly, there is increased assistance. We're not increasing as much as the Government and the Christian People's Party are doing, but we're increasing the aid compared to the Bondevik II government, which we both sat in, delivered last year. The third is that we take a radical step in trade that will help build up the ability of countries to increase growth in their own countries, by giving them market access to our markets. My question is then: why will not the Christian People's Party participate in more market access, as we have proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e547	It is apparent from the setting that the Christian People's Party supports all three elements of an offensive development policy. We have done that in common government, and Erna Solberg knows that very well. We have agreed on the policy that has been pursued in all three areas, in government. There's nothing new about that point. What we want is that when we stand in the middle of WTO negotiations, the main steps in improving market access to goods from poor countries should be taken in that context, and I actually thought that is the right desire. What is new is that the Right breaks a continuous series of budgets, with years of emphasis on stepping up efforts in relation to what Norway serves every year. Norway is now serving a great deal, and the Government is to be commended for having managed to escalate the assistance also in relation to Norway’s level of service in 2007. But the Right will no longer be involved, and we are very, very disappointed about that. Right doesn't like to increase relative to GNI, they're actually down to a level that's ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e555	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e558	Norway’s foreign policy has always been based on a humanistic tradition, on contexts and on the whole. We've had a cross-political consensus on the big issues. I'm glad that we also have such a consensus in some of the most central challenges we face, in which the government intervenes. The UN track has always been the main international track for Norway. The 2007 government budget has again turned our main effort towards a strengthened UN, while helping to streamline and strengthen the World Organisation. Norway is a small country in the number of inhabitants, but in international policy we are no small country. Norway's role in international society lies, not in muscle and physical or economic power, but in the humanism, principles and quality that we can deliver. Therefore, Norway can take important initiatives, as we have done in development policy, in the World Trade Organisation and in the North. The Central Party is pleased that the Government has so clearly highlighted these fundamental and historical lines of Norway’s foreign policy and the external budget for 2007. The foreign policy lines have and should, in the opinion of the Centre Party, reflect who we are dealing with. In symmetrical conditions, such as in the polar regions, and in relations with the EU and Europe, we can and should take advantage of our advantage, for the benefit of the population, the environment and future generations. Developing countries, especially in Africa, and other net food-importing countries and commodities-dependent countries, should benefit unilaterally from Norway’s foreign policy – of our aid resources and our experience, if desired. This does not mean, of course, that Norway does not benefit from the interaction, but we cannot assume that cooperation contributes to economic benefits in Norway in the short term. The Soria Moria Declaration of the Government Parties has stated that we should increase aid beyond 1 pst. of GDP during this period. We're not quite there yet, but we're now up to 0.97 p.m., and Norway's contribution to the international community has never been higher than what we've been up to in 2007. The values of the Centre Party, internationally as in Norway, are related to living democracy, the right to resource, the right and obligation to produce food for their own population, the space for action to pursue their own active business policies, and the space for action to pursue offensive welfare, distribution and environmental policies. We assume that other countries will have the same rights and opportunities that we have had and that we want to preserve. We know what has created well-being and prosperity in Norway. We have had a political governance of the country for nation-wide construction and distribution and settlement throughout the country. We have strong producers and entrepreneurs and strong organisations who have fought to ensure that growth is evenly distributed. It is therefore essential that financial support from Norway does not involve liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation. We have to assume that every country will find its own way and its own speed in terms of this development. Here it is democracy and human rights at all levels that will be the building blocks, both in peacemaking, in national construction and in the fight against corruption. The focus on investment and the organisation of foreign investment alone has not strengthened production capacity and long-term employment in the poorest countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. For this reason, I am pleased that an overall committee supports the focus in 2007 on production and employment impacts in the industrial strategy for developing countries. The statistics show that, despite the fact that the least developed countries have free tariff and quota access to Norway, Norwegian imports from these countries have increased only to a limited extent. From 2004 to 2005, the maximum increase in meat was only 4,5 pst., or 133 tonnes. However, the explanation is not surprising. Should a trade, must have goods and services to sell, and should one be able to produce long-term, the close markets are central. That is why we are pleased that the Government supports the developing countries' demands for the right to political space and to protect national markets. The centre party is also pleased that an overall committee asks for the Government to have a special focus on the action plan on agriculture in aid. Norwegian businesses have important knowledge and experience that can benefit from. However, for the Central Party, it is important that we have transparency about the results of our business-oriented assistance, as of all other sectors of aid and society. This is why we need to evaluate the resource flows of support we provide for industrial development in developing countries, so that we can see what remains, what is being created in the countries and regions we are looking for, and, if necessary, how much ends up in Norway and Norwegian business. With regard to industrial development in developing countries, it is the effect in the country of destination that has to count, and we need to know if it works. We are pleased with the government's preliminary handling of the Norfund case and await the consideration of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The main objective of the Centre Party is to achieve an offensive North-South action. I'm not talking like a regional politician from the north, I'm talking like a national politician. The Northern Territory Strategy of the Government is an important starting point for long-term work. Norway is the country that has set up viable, sustainable and efficient communities in the north. It's these societies that give Norway the power and legitimacy of the role we're going to play in the future. There is no reason for North Norway to become a force centre for the countries in the polar region. This requires long-term work for distribution, welfare and infrastructure development, research, environmental monitoring, regional agreement development, etc. The lot of the centre assumes that ring effects on land are facilitated by the planned petroleum activity related to petroleum-related products and services. In other areas such as travel life, long-term resource extraction, the harvesting and management of marine resources and the further development of generations' experience and knowledge of Arctic agriculture, Arctic community research and Arctic conditions, a conscious political and economic commitment is required. North bets point beyond the period of petroleum activity and help to ensure Norway as a supplier of quality products from the sea, harvested by a sustainable regime, strengthen a stable and preferably increasing settlement in the area, with sustainable resource utilisation, and resource management that provides local ringing effects and has good local anchoring. The Central Party believes that such a result, such activity and continued diversity of residence will help to strengthen and consolidate Norwegian jurisdiction and legitimacy in the north, for the benefit of the whole country. I am pleased that, in our cooperation with neighbouring Russia, we have managed to increase the budget by 5 million. kr, for cap. 118, where health, environment and knowledge are important. It's dressy to be modest, but it's allowed to be a little proud that we've been told from all over the world that the red-green government has made a groundbreaking decision to cancel illegitimate debts related to the shipping campaign. This has been a black spot in Norwegian aid policy, and I am happy to say that this is history.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e597	The centre party is most well-known for caring for Norwegian agricultural interests through the work on major transfers to the industry. What is not so familiar to most people is the protectionism that the party stands for, among other things. imports from developing countries. At one moment, developing countries will be prevented from exporting goods to Norway, and then at the next moment, passive development aid will be sent to the same. I do not know whether double standards are a parliamentary right expression, but I have not found anything else that is adequate for this. Is the Central Party really comfortable with a policy that directly impedes positive development in many poor countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e604	I am not completely familiar with the description given by the representative. I mentioned in my post that we have proposed open borders, but that the trade from some developing countries has not had the increase that we wanted, among other things. – to which I referred – because the neighbourhoods may be more important than long-distance exports. But I must be allowed to point out that there is an international report that shows that a reduction and liberalisation of trade will favour the major countries, such as Argentina, Brazil, India and China and some of the ASEAN countries, while the many poor, small countries do not benefit from this kind of trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e611	It's too tempting not to drill a little bit further on the same topic in terms of trade, since it's the Center Party that's in focus. Samuelsen highlighted the importance of industrial policy in developing countries and those agricultural policies in particular, and how important it is to have a local market and regional markets, and we fully agree with that. It is about strengthening these and helping them to have a quality that makes them enter those markets. But that's one more step, and that's qualifying for the international market. That means they have to sell to us, and we have to start buying from them. And here we have today a proposal to build up the customs barriers. However, the question needs to be addressed in the light of the common observation that the Central Party did not participate in the suspension of the aid notification two years ago, emphasising that the importance of trade for these countries may be greater than the overall assistance they receive. What's the Central Party's attitude to that? Do they disagree with that claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e620	I guess I can't be quite specific in the answer to that, as the representative might want. However, there is a balance between the right of countries to self-production for their own population to ensure the necessary food supply and trade with other countries. We have seen reports that some developing countries actually find it more useful to sell self-produced food rather than to supply their own population. This is a very difficult and complex question, to which there is no simple fascist answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e627	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e630	Hardly any development minister has got as much new and fresh money as Development Minister Erik Solheim will get to next year. 2.2 billion kroner, or more than 10 pst. increase is formidable. It allows the government to give more for many good purposes, and a little more, and most of the government's friends and many of the critics can feel their fields of action taken care of. With such framework conditions, tough choices and difficult priorities are often avoided. The left will warn against looking blindly at percentages and quantities in the discussion on development policy. The content of the assistance is the most important. However, I will not avoid attaching any initial comments to the objective of giving 1 pst. of gross national income for development purposes. The left is among those who believe that this objective should be maintained and have noted that the level of the budget submitted will be 0,97 p.m. Next year. We expect the Government to follow this goal, as it is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration. Even if in the years that come, we should not experience the same growth in gross national income that we have had in recent years, we should reach this goal. It can have an important signal effect in relation to both other donors and recipient countries. This objective seems to have a clear majority behind it in this Chamber. For its part, the Progress Party has presented a budget in which aid is halved. Together with a number of marked political markers in the budget setting, the Progress Party places itself in this somewhat on the sideline of Norwegian development policy. The goal of using 1 pst. gross national income on assistance has also been tried and tested from a completely different point of view. This can be summarized in the well-known slogan ‘trade not Aid’. The left does not fully agree with this, as it sets up assistance and reduction of customs duties aimed at imports from the third world against each other. By reducing customs duties, funds should not be ‘released’ from the aid budget for entirely different purposes. It seems that the right hand side is on such a line. As a social liberal party, the Left believes that Norway should do both: ‘trade and AIDS’. We believe that we are parallel to increasing the aid to 1 pst. of gross national income should reduce barriers to trade aimed at imports from developing countries. This is behind a recognition that development is a complex process. Norway, as a very prosperous donor country, should contribute in a variety of ways, including among others. by facilitating market access to our markets. The left has therefore entered into the position of the Financial Committee in order to grant duty-free and quota-free access to all imports from the poorest developing countries which are not categorized as least developed countries, so-called MUL countries. This concerns, among other things: on the African countries Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Indonesia, Cameroon, Kenya, Congo, Mongolia, Nigeria and Zimbabwe. On some uncertain basis, this is intended to result in a loss of customs revenue of about 40 million. kr. Since the WTO Doha Round, which would be the round of developing countries, is currently raging, such a measure would have a positive signal effect internationally. The right-hand proposal to grant customs duties to all developing countries, with the exception of certain sensitive goods, and countries with repressive regimes consider the Left to be somewhat problematic, as it would include large middle-income exporting countries. In the budgetary position, the abolition of customs barriers is rejected by the government parties. It is described as a ‘malicious development policy’, with reference to the fact that MUL countries have already had this opportunity, and only to a limited extent have benefited from it. This reaction is most understandable given that the Centre Party is in the Government. There appears to be different perceptions of increasing tariff and quota-free access for more developing countries. They extend from the rejection of the Government Parties to the Right which will grant customs freedom to large exporting countries in the Intermediate Income Group. The left has therefore gone into the budgetary position to ask the Government for a more detailed assessment of building down the customs barriers vis-à-vis developing countries. In particular, the government is asked to look at how this can contribute to the promotion of the objectives of Norwegian development policy. Such an investigation could have fostered a common understanding of the importance of reducing customs protection against imports from poor developing countries and prepared the basis for implementing such measures as an integral part of our development policy. The left will therefore continue to work towards carrying out such an investigation. Microcredit is another keyword that I would like to dwell on. It challenges traditional assistance and has received much more attention after the Nobel Peace Prize went to Muhammad Yunus, the man behind the Grameen Foundation. Microcredit is a type of assistance that promotes personal responsibility, private initiative and value creation. And not least, microcredit shows how people grow when they show confidence. In many cases, women have shown themselves to be worthy of this trust and to have a new life, a self-value. This makes good sense in a socially liberal party like the Left. But before we in pure enthusiasm grant new funds for microcredit, the Left wants to answer some questions. The adoption of a stepping-up plan in the 2007 budget is considered premature before we have seen through 15 years of experience with micro-credit in Norwegian development policy. The Left has therefore brought the Foreign Affairs Committee into the budgetary position to ask the Government to provide an assessment of the possibilities and constraints associated with the use of micro-credit and micro-finance mechanisms. This assessment should consider how micro-credit can contribute to the promotion of development and the fight against poverty in line with the objectives set for Norwegian development policy. Furthermore, the assessment should take a closer look at the importance of guarantees and the relationship between state-supported and purely commercial dissemination of micro-credit. Although microcredit has the ability to reduce poverty, commercial banks see this as a business opportunity they can make a lot of money on. Microcredit is a loan to those who have nothing to pledge, most of them are illiterate, and they have no knowledge of the banking system. They can easily be the victims of replacement. There are examples of them being subjected to discretionary interest, humiliation and collective punishment in the event of default. Depositaries may end up in very difficult situations. The left wants to get full clarity about these problems. The objective should be to contribute to the resolution of structural problems that we see and that may help to weaken microfinance as a means of assistance in the future. In the case of civil society actors in the field of assistance, the Left agrees that they should be required. They must be able to add value to development cooperation, which can be made visible through a thorough reporting of results. At the same time, the Left believes that we should not impose ever new requirements on Norwegian non-governmental organisations. As a matter of principle, the requirements for their use of means of assistance are stricter than those for the much larger allocations provided through multilateral channels. The left wants to strengthen voluntary organisations. They have a high level of competence in providing practical assistance. Through a reasonable degree of predictability with regard to transfers, they should be allowed to further develop it. The objective is to remain an effective and attractive channel for future assistance. They include: the possibility of channelling assistance to difficult and conflict-affected areas, including, inter alia: the Palestinian Territories and Sudan. My next key is small and medium-sized enterprises – an important issue for the Left. In its budgetary position, several parties have stressed the importance of investing in business in different contexts. This applies, inter alia, to: to strengthen business in the north and to invest in business in development policy. For the Left, it has been important to stress that small and medium-sized enterprises should not be excluded. We believe that this part of business – and then we mean down to one-man businesses – is important to create a diverse and less vulnerable basis for nutrition. Furthermore, the emergence of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, including women in particular, will contribute to promoting economic and democratic development. It could create social cohesion and generate political stability. Finally, I would like to point to a central, but not always equally sensitive, dilemma in development policy. The left considers that one of the pillars of aid policy is ‘own-initiative ownership’. This principle was broken down in St.meld. No 35 for 2004–2005, which was presented by the Bondevik II administration and which received broad support. This presents us with a difficult dilemma. We want control and control, while we want to promote ownership for our own development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e686	So the Norwegian economy goes down, and we're still reminded that we live in the best country in the world. That, I believe, also implies obligations to provide greater assistance for development and for the poor in the world. Today's vote and the proposal for a decision on appropriations are an expression of this. It's not charity – which also Dagfinn Højbrätten was in on – but it's about justice. I record that the leaders of the Right and the Advance Party are talking about forming an opposition front, an alternative to the red-green. If you go below the surface, you don't see much of the foundation for it. It also applies to today’s setting and comments. I don't have a question, but I want to express a joy. I am pleased that the Left is with the Red-Green and Christian People's Party on greater assistance and increased objectives in relation to the world's poor, against the option, which is the Right and the Advance Party, which will cut considerably in the aid compared to the majority that wants to do today. If the Left is satisfied with that, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e696	The left is perfectly clear to have the target of 1 pst. of gross national income. We believe we are such a rich country, and we must distribute our goods. We will continue to be at the centre of this aid policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e701	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e704	I will first be allowed to state that it is positive that the main speakers from all parties have confirmed what is in the committee position, namely that there is still a broad consensus in Norway on the main features of Norwegian foreign policy and development policy. It's worth fixing before we go into those areas where there's disagreement, and they've become important. But I believe it is a strength that we have a common course in the main direction. Nevertheless, at this budgetary round we see clear signs of an alternative course. That's basically good. We never have to be paralysed by a consensus that the way we've done it in recent years is the right way to do it. We must never idealize our own efforts, and we must never close the doors to new ideas and new ways of doing things. I believe the Minister of Development, the undersigned and the Government agree that there must be a fundamental position in this area: look for new contexts, try new things, see the line in our international work from a crisis to a peace agreement, to reconstruction, to development – not least on the prevention work to be done in both development policy and foreign policy. I also believe that this government has shown during this year that we are looking for new ways to do things – to learn and evaluate what we are doing. In particular, we need to be able to meet new challenges for foreign and development policy arising from climate, health, migration, crime and terrorism. It challenges us, and there is no map to follow in this area. So we have to have both the resources and the political will to try out new ways of doing this. I think the representative in his speech, Højbräten, illustrated well how innovations in development and foreign policy also produce results. Then you can believe that the Advance Party and the Government agree on looking for new solutions. Much of what the representative, Høglund, says, invites to such a critical approach, and it will not reject the Government. But there is nevertheless a deep gap between the overall approach of the Progress Party and that of the great majority, when the Progress Party goes in to halve everything we do in aid. And in the area for which I am responsible, we see that the Progress Party will cut the appropriations for peace, reconciliation and democracy by 63 p.m., our efforts in the Balkans, which is still a critical region for Europe's peace and security, cut by 76 p.m., in measures for disarmament and to prevent nuclear material being put into use in developing countries, cut by 87 p.m., and support for countries in the OSCE area that can receive development aid – the representative Höglund has just visited Kazakhstan and been committed to including these countries – is proposed cut by 65 p.m. I believe that this is an expression of a completely different approach to how Norway should behave in the international community, and I believe that part of the contributions that came from the representative, Høglund, is also based on a lack of knowledge. The representative, Højbrätten, who I do not want to repeat, is the documentation of all the areas where modern, wise development policy – both in the area for which I am responsible and in the area for which the Minister for Development is responsible – is producing results. The representative, Højlund, says, "The problem is that the giver's joy is overflowing." That's wrong. 0.7 pst. for rich countries, they are down in the 0.20s somewhere. It is true, as has been said in the debate, that the rich countries have set themselves targets for growth, but that is a long way to go. The representative, Høglund, says, "We're just increasing the dose. No, we're changing the dose. But we don't cut it at the same time as part of the action to help. We're focused. I believe that the Minister for Development has fundamentally renewed development policy, which has also been supported by the majority. The representative, Højlund, says, "When was the last time you accepted a good idea?" We do that all the time. Let me just take a few examples: within climate, we are now working to see how we can develop cooperation with China and with India in new ways. Microcredit is mentioned. The vaccine initiative is a new issue that Norway has been supporting. We do that all the time. The right hand side is in another division. But we notice the fundamental and political reality that they are now releasing the ceiling in the 1 pst. goal, which they have been able to reach. Then I remember that the right in 2001 went to the elections on a Norwegian development aid cut of 25 p.m. They did not deliver it to their voters in that period, because they were on the increase in the Bondevik II government. Now they're still in the open field, and they're putting forward a budget that's going to increase in the number of dollars, but it's only supposed to be missing when Norway gets richer, but they're at 0.9 pst. I noticed that the representative Vallersnes, in his resistance to hanging up in percentages, would set no goal. And then the question is, where is this going to end? If Norway continues its prosperity development, even the marginal increases introduced by the Right will lead to their falling, falling and falling, and they will soon be in division with the Progress Party. Then I think there's going to be a pretty marked difference, primarily between the Progress Party and the great majority, but also the Right. We can look forward to a scenario in which these parties would have a majority, and a Norwegian Prime Minister, a Foreign Minister or a Development Minister will knock on the doors of the United Nations and in the countries with which we have cooperated, saying: Good day, I am from Norway – the world's richest country, which is just getting richer. We have decided to halve the effort for development. I have a lot of sense for the Right proposal on trade. We're evaluating this. But I think it is important to clarify that there is now a significant effort in WTO trade. That's where our efforts belong. We should follow that closely, while continuing the assessment of the previous government, to consider how we can continue the policy of giving preference to the poorest countries. But it's still a bit scary when the trade prospects are going to help explain why we cut the aid, that we're going to say to the children's soldiers in Uganda: No, there won't be any education for you that we want to support, but you can deal with Norway. Or we cut in the money of UNAIDS, and tell an AIDS-related person that you can handle yourself without drugs, but you can always trade with Norway. I also noticed that the representative of Vallersnes asked basic questions about the curative around AIDS. It's going to be interesting to have a debate about, because I just think that the offer of treatment, which UNAIDS contributes to, is a main strategy in the fight against AIDS. In my view, this attitude comes a little near the old historical concept that if they don't have bread, they can eat cakes, when they say, "We cut the aid, but you can always trade with Norway." The Right Party and the Advance Party are on a different course, and I will praise the Christian People's Party and the Left to hold on to the goal. It's in opposition, when the lots are released, that you recognize them. So the right has returned to where they were before 2001, and come out of that influence – positive, at my discretion – they were under the Bondevik II government. So I'm going to comment on a couple of other points. Afghanistan – the question of a new referral: No, it is not my opinion that we have received a new request for troops to Afghanistan. We've been given a repetition of the same enquiry. It has come beyond the harvest as part of the power generation of NATO operates. In response to the various enquiries, the government has repeated that we are maintaining our high contribution to strength. We focus that effort on the north. We take responsibility for the airport in Kabul. We have taken initiatives to improve the coordination of development assistance, civil assistance. We are continuously assessing our military efforts. There is nothing in principle to prevent us from one day ending up contributing in the south, and there is no particular obstacle to any kind of troops we can contribute to, or not contribute to. It is evaluated on an ongoing basis. In the case of the northern regions, which have been mentioned: I appreciate that there is broad support for the efforts made by the Government in the northern regions. The overall strategy was presented last Friday, and I think it has interesting prospects ahead. It will then be followed up in budgets here in Stortinget, building on the broad consensus that is in Stortinget about it. Now the state, the Government, has reported its maps on where it will invest, in particular on knowledge, industrial development, the environment, climate, resource control, energy and relations with Russia, and then we get to develop this further from year to year. I think it's going to be an exciting bet, and, as I said, the Government's strategic main initiative. So the relationship with Russia. There I think it is important that we underline what is the time horizon of the Northern Region Perspective, that is, the long perspective. Today, there is a worrying development in the political environment in Russia. The different episodes that we are now seeing, with opposition critics who have been liquidated, are still under investigation. But it builds up under the impression that Russian democracy has in no way the country. I think it's important then that we are long-term in our policy, that we are to recognize, that we address the Russians in different contexts our critical remarks, as well as that we want to deepen our cooperation. But it can't be that we let some episodes throw at what's our policy. I have noticed that many people believe that Russia's choice of the Shtokman expansion has totaled our investment in the northern regions. No, we probably have to live with disappointments and enjoy each other from a generation perspective. The fact that Russia is making a choice around one field, large enough, cannot change our perspective on how we will continue to work in the north. We have to work long-term and take advantage of the benefits we get when there are opportunities for deepening cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e742	There's a lot of things to think about, but to take two elements: We get criticism to cut in the OSCE area, among other things, and the foreign minister named Central Asia, Kazakhstan. It's an excellent example of a country that doesn't necessarily need money. They are building up their own oil fund, boasting that they are able to meet their budgetary challenges now without touching the oil fund. It is also the political dialogue, the political inclusion, that may be missing. That's what we're trying to signal. It is not necessarily to raise money in the type of project that promotes development. In the absence of knowledge of the development in the area of aid, it is possible that we deal with different types of reports, but there can be no doubt that the overall impact of the assistance that has been provided – and there has been a great deal of assistance, there have been many billions of dollars in total, which have been provided for assistance – has not had the desired effect. That's what we're pointing at. And we give a thorough account of our sources and our choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e751	I think it might be wise to now give Kazakhstan the opportunity to develop, and that we cooperate with them politically, but there are other countries in this region, for example. Moldova, with Russian forces on its soil. We have the whole of the Western Balkans, where Norway has now been able to play a role in connection with Serbia. Just because we've been there with project funding, we've been able to play the role we have. Cutting this will put us back dramatically. So I'd like to mention the same thing I said in my post, that we have to learn from the examples and constantly evaluate, renew and improve. Today, there is an interesting item in the Evening Post, where journalist Tove Gravdal, who was an EU election observer during the elections in Congo, writes: «The implementation of the referendum where, in the case of a new constitution a year ago, alone, has cost nearly three billion kroner. [[...]] Just about 5 pst. paid by the Congo.’» Norway has paid with 135 million. kr, to combat what was called the World War of Africa, one of the greatest threats to peace and security in Africa, but also in the world. With the Advance Party budget, we cannot do this kind of work. Then we have to say that the Congo is going to be okay. It is not a threat to peace and security. But it has all the other countries, including the United States, with which the Progress Party is committed to deepening cooperation with, seen, and they have invested massively. The progress party will go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e767	First just quite short. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is trying to find a contrast between our position on a more moderate increase in the aid budget and the commitment to trade. But it's a question of doing both. I think you should admit that. I notice that both the representative of the Workers' Party and the foreign minister in their speeches emphasise their distance from the worsening of what is happening in Russia in terms of democracy and the MR. The more strange it is that this is not included in the new Northern Region Initiative of the Government. I have to tell the Minister for Foreign Affairs that MR is also a long-term matter. Reactions have come from many sources, including: of the Helsinki Committee. We hope this does not mean that the theme will fade when it can counteract Norwegian offensive interests, for example. in business cooperation. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs ensure that our view reaches management in Moscow, and perhaps more offensive than what we heard from the Riga Summit, where I understand the Minister of Foreign Affairs asked his colleague if he was uncomfortable with the criticism that is being raised internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e776	That's how these percentages are more than numbers. They are also important symbolism policies. Right goes from 0.97 pst. to 0.9 pst. My question to Vallersnes was: Where will you be next year if Norway continues to be rich? With regard to the Northern Territory Strategy and MR, I recommend reading on page 15, where it is mentioned in the section on relations with Russia that – as I said – Russian democracy is in a development that we do not see the end of. There are worrying features and Norway must maintain its critical dialogue in the fields of human rights, democracy and political freedoms. I did that 48 hours ago when I met the Russian Foreign Minister in the OSCE in Brussels. There will be a new day when the Russians do not experience that Norway regularly addresses critical questions. It is part of our profile in relation to Russia, both in the regional dialogue in the north and between Oslo and Moscow at government level. So there's no discomfort in doing that. It is part of delivering Norwegian messages, and it is also part of the Northern Region profile in relation to relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e783	I want to follow up on Norway's voice on human rights issues. The Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister were not quite lucky in meeting with the Indonesian President. There was no mention of a situation related to the death penalty. A week later, the penalty was enforced. I am concerned that Norway is dampening its message regarding human rights and criticism of regimes in given situations. That's why I'm very concerned that the Foreign Minister can tell Stortinget what Norway's message is to Russia in the situation we're now seeing. An overall committee expresses concern in the budget setting about the restriction of the space for action of the free press and the free organisations, congregations, etc., killing journalists and other critics, and the impact this has on freedom of expression. What is Norway's message to Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e790	I was at the outset, that Norway's line there is to stress the commitments Russia now has as a member of the Council of Europe. They have the Presidency of the Council of Europe. They are responsible for living up to the protection of human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of association and political rights. We're dealing with this at regular intervals. I mentioned that no later than two days ago, there was a theme in my meeting with the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs. During my visit to Russia earlier this year, I focused on including in the visit meetings with non-governmental organisations, civil society, environmental movements and independent groups. It is the kind of message, political message face to face, but also through action. We also have an assessment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of how we carry out our human rights work aimed at that part of Europe. There we have experience from the time it was the Soviet Union. There has been another period for a good part of the year now. I've wanted to review how we use our instruments. We have stepped up support for Belarus, among others. through the Helsinki Committee. We must now also look at how to work against the free and independent environments in Russia, which is an important part of Russian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e798	The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in his speech the North Region Initiative and was concerned with areas such as sovereignty, energy, business and research, while people and living conditions had become dependent on it. The internal weighting of the different bet areas in the North Zone bet should perhaps be adjusted? Norway will not be served with a large and sustained welfare gap in relation to North-West Russia. It is important to bear in mind that this gap is not only a welfare gap but also a barrier to infection, because infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV are on the rise in North-West Russia. The total government bet in the north areas is approximately 500 million. kr. This is the sum of the Northern Region measures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Northern Region of the Government. Of this, only 17 million are expected. to go for health and social purposes. The left considers this to be a very small part and believes that it should be increased. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about these priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e805	Now it's like there's a separate chapter on the people-to-people cooperation in the Northern Region Strategy. That's a very important part. We're doing a lot through Barents. We have a long experience of a number of measures over the last 10–15 years. It's not that it takes a lot of money to stimulate. We have e.g. now used 10 million. kr on the press, culture and information work, targeted towards Russia in the north. We maintain the commitment to health to which the representative refers. At the same time, I think it is important also to develop cooperation with Russian institutions. We must not forget that Russia has no more debt today. They're building up big currency reserves. So the idea that we're going to contribute classic aid money, if I can say it that way, might not be the right track. Transfer of competences and more contact is important. Therefore, in the context of the Northern Region Strategy, we are increasing the number of scholarships, the number of opportunities, so that Russian students can come to study in Norway – building up that kind of contacts. Today, 110,000 people cross the border of Storskog in the year. There were 3,000 people in 1990. The interpersonal contact is an important part and a support beam throughout the North Region operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e816	I'll get hold of another relationship. Many people feel that the Norwegian model of peace work has gradually been given quite a place in Norwegian foreign policy. There are many aspects to it. So essentially, there's a lot of good and positive sides. But what is the result, the effect, the impact on other efforts, etc.? I see that the government is evaluating, that they want to go through different kinds of policies to look at what's working, and what's having an effect. In this area, would you try to stop a bit, look back, evaluate and, if necessary, adjust to find out if you are on the right track, whether this is a natural role for Norway to play – be the humanitarian power that we have the impression that the ambitions are that we should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e823	The representative, Høglund, will notice that we do not use the words 'humanitarian power'. Those are words that don't dress us. There are two approaches to answering the question. The first is very simple: yes, we're still going to evaluate and strengthen the mechanisms to check that our efforts are important. On the question of whether this is Norway’s role, I think the answer is: we already have that answer. Yes, it's Norway's role. It is Norway’s duty and it is Norway’s responsibility to play such a role. Although we do not have the road map and all the answers, it is Norway's role to work to find them, because we are a rich country. Does this give results? I mentioned Congo as a current example. Norwegian officials and women who travelled with money on the inside to support the ANC in South Africa’s difficult years were engaged in new work for peace. Erik Solheim, through his efforts in Sri Lanka, has taken up a glove, a very demanding and difficult one, and continued a peace process. He has continued to do so under this government. If the option is to say that this is not Norway's role, I think history will show that it was a crazy approach. That's the way it is in many other areas where we're engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e832	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e835	In our opinion, Norwegian foreign policy must be based on the interaction between Norway's strategic and economic interests, respect for human rights and respect for the interests, security and security of Norwegian citizens, both domestically and abroad. One of the most important pillars of foreign policy is committed international cooperation, aimed at decoupling, lasting peace, free world trade and respect for fundamental human rights. An indispensable foundation of the Foreign Policy of the Progress Party is the importance of good transatlantic relations. For many years, the United States has been — and remains — Norway’s most important allies. It is therefore essential that we establish our foreign policy so that we do not weaken this good relationship, but rather deepen and strengthen it in the future. The Progress Party considers transatlantic cooperation to be so important that we also strengthen the budget to promote it. It's not so big sums, but seen from our side it's important now to give a political signal exactly in that direction. We must be clear and clear that NATO is a necessary and positive basic element of Norway's defence and security policy platform. It is therefore important that we set up this important cooperation when we are asked to do so. There has been a broad political consensus on this for many years, but the government's course of action with regard to South Afghanistan is unfortunately cracking in this. Opinions from the Prime Minister last weekend were positive. They gave hope that the Government had made sense and would restore our credibility as an alliance partner in NATO. Today’s press release that you have once again turned your thumb down for NATO is alarming. The Minister of Foreign Affairs claims today that no new enquiry has been made, but that the same enquiry has been repeated. I think this seems somewhat unexplained. I had actually expected the government to learn from the previous round we had, and orientated the Storting before the representatives of Storting read about this in the paper. If the Government does not focus on the United States, it can certainly be argued that the focus is increasingly directed towards South and Central America. The government’s draft budget represents a significant increase in aid to Latin America – almost 62 pst. increasing assistance to Latin America, or three times as much increase as to the other regions. The government's embrace of left-wing radical regimes in Latin America, which show little or no respect for democratic rules of play, nor human rights, is beyond me incomprehensible. I would like to remind you of the Minister of Development's presentation in the spring session, which was really a very good account until he came to the government's large bet area, Latin America. Unfortunately, this led to the loss of all credibility by a good and thorough account. I thought that respect for human rights, democratic rules of the game, such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press, had to be based, regardless of whether party-political friends of the Development Minister are in power. I therefore hope that the Government will now take this into account and make clear demands on these regimes with which a cooperation will now be developed. So a long run from Latin America to Svalbard. Our sovereignty over the archipelago must be followed by the presence and activity of the area. Mining has so far been the main source of nutrition, and the authorities have previously realised that specific taxes and tax rules for the area need to be in place to maintain the activity. The majority of the population decided for the current year to remove some of these benefits and increase the income tax from 8 pst. to 12 pst. The government has now apparently got cold feet and tries to remedy some of the negative consequences of this, by introducing its own swallowbard deduction. On the part of the Progress Party, we cannot support the introduction of such a bureaucratic system and will also this year call for the tax rate to be reduced to 8 pst. I am pleased that all the non-socialist parties are following our example this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e856	The budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee clearly and properly reflects what is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy, security policy and development policy, namely to focus on promoting the values on which our own society is based: democracy, well-being, equality, working life, justice, distribution and popular participation. Or to quote from the Foreign Minister's statement on 8 February of this year: ‘The centre of foreign policy, as for all other policies, is the value and well-being of man.’ This is also in many ways the Nordic dimension of policy: foreign policy becomes relevant to most people, because it also applies to a meaningful and humane life. A small country such as Norway is dependent on participation in and cooperation with international and regional organisations. It is important for us to have a UN-led world order, so we want to strengthen the role of the United Nations as a global player. That is why we are also participating in and supporting the further reform process of the United Nations – this in order to make the UN more effective, both as an aid organisation and as a conflict prevention and resolution tool. Also in NATO it is important to be an active alliance partner. This means, among other things: seeking influence on NATO policies and operations. One of the more unknown success stories in Norwegian foreign policy — and Norwegian diplomacy — became publicly known last week when NATO’s summit took Serbia into the Partnership for Peace. This is Norwegian diplomacy at its highest. Norway has long been a driving force to involve Serbia in partnership cooperation in the alliance, in order to strengthen democratic forces and show Serbs a better way than nationalistic isolation. Our northern regions – our neighbourhood – have also become a new dimension of Norwegian foreign policy. The Northern Region Strategy of the Government states that long-termity and predictability are important qualities of Norwegian Northern Region policy. I would like to underline here the importance of strong living people-to-people cooperation, with a significant commitment to culture. That's 10 million. kr for cultural purposes. Cultural life in North Norway and in the North Calote is internationally oriented and multicultural, and networks have been established for several years across borders between cultural actors in the northern regions. Nevertheless, development policy dominates the budgetary position. Everyone, except the Progress Party, points out that extreme poverty is the greatest challenge to human rights in our time, and that the world community must follow the UN's binding Millennium Goals. The priorities of the majority are a consequence of this. We are also following up the debate after the Minister of Development's statement that development policy must be an integral part of our foreign policy. In the context of assistance, Norway shall pay particular attention to areas where we have a comparative advantage, including: equality, the environment, energy, good governance and education. The majority also believe that a key prerequisite for achieving the Millennium Goals is to ensure their own food production and focus on food security and the right to clean water. An overall committee believes that Norway must help to improve access to our markets for developing countries. It might be a good thing that it's also underlined by my side. It has been an important part of the debate before today that the Progress Party has declared itself entirely out of the aid policy. Reducing the aid budget by $10.15 billion, i.e. a reduction of 44.2 p.p., shows that. If the proposal of the Progress Party had been adopted, it would have meant termination of international contracts – bilaterally as multilateral. In the case of Afghanistan, 85 pst goes. of the appropriations for assistance from budget lines for which the Progress Party proposes a cut of up to 80 pst. Nevertheless, the most interesting thing in this setting is the split between the previous government parties. While the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, the Right makes several large cuts. It's going to be exciting to see how it's going to develop, which has also been discussed by several other speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e880	You world how delicious it was to hear Dagfinn Høybråten's posts earlier here today – a big-time representative and party leader who is really engaged in the fight against world poverty, who is personally affected by it, who thinks this means something, and who thinks it's useful to do something about it. It was an article so good that I would have been very proud if I could keep it myself. But the article shows to the full what is the division in the hall here today – on the one hand the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, which agrees on almost all the essential issues, on the other hand the Progress Party, which has a completely different policy, and then the Right – which we now do not know exactly where we have – at full speed from one to the other. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs fully pointed out — if the Right continues to increase the budget by 2.5 p.m., while Norway’s economic development continues as it is all possible reason to believe, but as we do not know for sure, it is only a matter of time before the Right is not only in line with the Progress Party, but has brought Norway down to a completely different international division in terms of assistance. Nevertheless, the difference between the government parties and the Allies and the Advance Party is the significant difference here. This difference is about a different view of the world. Our view is that Norway can make a significant contribution to peace, to combating poverty — in short, to making this world better. The point of view of the Progress Party is essentially that we should sit quietly here, see what is happening in the world, and then try to make the best of it for Norwegian interests in such a difficult and tumultuous world. It's active exposure versus passive adjustment. What this would mean for Norway in the world is well illustrated by the answer I received just a few weeks ago – perhaps a month ago – the American ambassador in Norway asked: What is the main priority of the US Embassy in Norway now? His answer illustrates how far we have come since the Cold War. He said: The most important thing for the US Embassy in Norway is cooperation with Norway on policies in a number of remote countries, such as Afghanistan, Palestine, Sudan and Sri Lanka. Then he came to the cooperation between the United States and Norway when it came to education, economic questions and other things. What matters most to the United States – and this is the country to which the Progress Party considers it most important to have a good relationship – is what this government seems to be most important, not what the Progress Party seems to be most important. The same goes for a series of other countries that we want to have a good relationship with. But this isn't just about our view of the world, it's also about our view of what Norway is going to be, and what kind of impression the world is going to have of Norway. There are two alternatives: either the world will view Norway as rich, but generous, or as rich, but greedy, and persistent. To be honest, which of these two impressions the world has of Norway, will affect Norwegian business opportunities, how Norwegian tourists are received abroad, and it will affect the relationship of Norwegians with the rest of the world in general. For people will respect and appreciate a small, rich oil country that is generous, but they will not receive with the same kindness a small, rich and greedy country. After going through this main difference in the convergence between the Government and the Advance Party, let me also say that the representative Höglund draws up a number of reasonable individual points of view that I want to have a dialogue on. He pulled out four things the government should do more of, and the answer is yes, we'll do more of all four things, not unlike assistance, but in addition to assistance. The Minister of Foreign Affairs went through the issue of trade in detail. Yes, we want to open up Norwegian markets for more products from developing countries, and we want to find ways to organise it, but it cannot replace helping the world’s AIDS, for example. So the representative pulled out a debt cancellation. Yes, but the cross of thought is that it is this government that did what the Greatness and former governments have been talking about for 15 years now, to use the Nike slogan 'Just do it'. The cross of thought is that all those who said in advance that this was impossible to do, they muted when it was just done. There have been objections to this. Most have objected to the cancellation of the debt done by Norway, but when it was done, almost all the objections were muted, and it is good. But it shows how often it is in politics – if you just do it, people will be satisfied. The Progress Party and the Right are drawing up a proposal here that more should be done in the field of industrial policy and that we should report back to the Stortinge on that. Yes, I will, regardless of the outcome of the vote that had to come at this point. That makes sense, because economic development is essential in getting out of poverty. How in the world is Burundi, which I visited last week, going out of poverty if they don't get proper banks, get some industry, get some service industry that works? Of course, they need to develop their businesses, and Norway needs to look at how we can contribute to it. Together with the Minister of Industry and other Governments, I will look at the sum of our instruments – GIEK’s schemes, Norfund – all the guarantee schemes we could set in motion, and look at how we can get this system more effective. Then we'll see if we can manage to improve it, and then of course we'll report back to Stortinget once we've completed this. Höglund drew up the system of microcredit. Yeah, also there we'll see if we can do more. But there I also think the Progress Party should take its own ideology seriously, because it is an area where the private sector should be able to do more. During Yunus’ visit, I will attend both an event held by the Society’s Main Organization and one held by Kolibri Kapital, a small microcredit company, and challenge Norwegian finance companies, brokerage houses, banks and insurance companies, unless they can do more. They are in the expertise in banking that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not have, nor are small, Norwegian non-governmental organisations necessarily attached to. They can contribute to the transfer of competences, but they also have resources that should be able to be mobilised in microcredit. It's not possible to answer all the questions, but let me say something about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' anti-corruption bet, because it's a theme that's very in my heart. Corruption kills. Corruption is theft, and it's not a hair better than bagging, shoplifting, ran or whatever it might be. It's taking money that legitimately belongs to poor people, to use it for their own power or personal consumption. When money is stolen in a country like Nigeria, from people who need drugs, who need school places, who need roads, and who are put into Western banks or tax havens, killing people. We're going to do what we can to help people fight this. Yesterday we had a visit to Nigeria's leading anti-corruption fighter. He says that he and his people alone over the last three years have taken back more than 30 billion Norwegian kroner from corrupt Nigerians and brought it back into the treasury or back to the legitimate owners of this money. So this is half the time the Norwegian development budget – in three years. That kind of people need support from Norway. I am also pleased to say that he is part of a Norwegian-supported international network of corruption hunters, where Eva Joly is a driving force. In short, what we'll do about corruption. We want to do what we can to follow all the money Norway gives directly through the UN, through the World Bank, or in other ways, as far as it can be done at all, so that corruption becomes impossible. Just before I got here, I spoke to Ashraf Ghana, former finance minister in Afghanistan, who tells a horror story about how the UN's use of money in Afghanistan is not transparent. You don't know where the money goes, and they'll of course go into corruption very easily. Everything in our own system we're going to have zero tolerance for, and we're going to be the engine of transparency everywhere we work. Secondly, we are going to support countries in combating corruption through support to Transparency International or other non-governmental organisations, through support to Ecocrim-like institutions or state lawyers and national audits. I am pleased to announce that 16 embassies have now reported back that anti-corruption will be a central part of our aid portfolio next year. Through our ‘oil for development’ programme, Norway is making a very great effort to combat corruption in the oil sector. Then we will take international initiatives. I want to attend the next week at the Conference of the Parties on Corruption in Jordan, which is based on the UN International Convention on Corruption, which the Stortinget was quick to adopt. We will participate in a group of friends for this Conference of States Parties, and we will work through the World Bank and the African, Asian and Latin American Development Banks to support their anti-corruption measures. Finally, I would like to say that the Eva Joly network and some others have contributed to bringing up this area, which gives protection to individuals who are in the fight against corruption in countries where this is deadly, may in itself have the same meaning as many of the great things we are working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e919	The Council of State's observation that we should take our ideology seriously in terms of microcredit, and engage the private sector, must be one of the more constructive things I've heard in this debate. So that's what we're taking with us. But when you talk about our alternative budget, including the part we have on our foreign budget, which is almost NOK 16 billion in total, like putting Norway back into a passive role, it becomes more rhetorical, we feel, than reality. SV says that they may be concerned about the relationship of the Progress Party with the United States with the aid policy we have. That SV becomes a good friend with the United States, we just think it's nice. But the question is, there was a report yesterday on the question of whether some developmental means of indigenous people had gone where they were going. I haven't gone deep into that matter. I just want to challenge the Minister of Development to say something about whether there is any hold in the information that comes out here, that only 19 pst. has gone to what they were going to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e926	I believe that this is a problem in the way we disrupt assistance. Let's take a theoretical example: if we started a program for Indians or indigenous people, female entrepreneurs, in Bolivia, then this program could almost certainly be considered as business support, as female-oriented assistance, perhaps as environmental assistance if it had an environmental component, such as outreach and three or four other similar components. So you connect a lot of these things up. The programme is on its own and must be assessed for success or failure. But this way of counting it, almost in an infinite number of times, is a problem. Voluntary organisations are also pushed into the same pattern by disrupting their projects in all these dimensions because all of these things provide an international census of assistance. That's why I think it's true that a lot of things that are indigenous have a small indigenous component that's why it's convenient to pull out, while there's a lot of other things in those projects, too, naturally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e932	The Council of State used Afghanistan as an example of the non-transparent use of UN funds. Unfortunately, there are some examples of this. That is precisely one of the reasons why we would like to make stronger demands for reform and improvement of UN procedures before we are in the process of further increase. I commented on Norfund in my post, and I am not going to go further into the challenges of getting all the information about the organisation and the procedures. We await what is happening in the Control and Constitutional Committee, but also the handling of the Council of State. On the other hand, I note the essay in the Evening Post today: «Common front against tax havens». It is the State Councils of Halvorsen and Solheim who ‘declar war on tax havens’ and ‘promise to take up the fight in all the international forums they can’. Then I would like to ask if the Council of State is comfortable with Norfund's placing its funds in tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e939	First, something that has to do with terms. Tax havens are not really the right word, because the main problem with tax havens is not tax evasion. The main problem with tax havens is that you can hide everything. It may also be an additional problem not to pay taxes, but some of those who have their money in tax havens pay taxes to the country where they operate. It's paradise to hide something, because it's almost impossible and impenetrable to know who owns the money that's there. It is a place to hide drug money, to hide terrorism money, to hide international crime and, of course, on a large, dramatic scale to hide international corruption. That is why we want to put a completely different search light on this, and I invite Stortinget to join in. I think the time now is ripe, because Wolfowitz has made this a major theme for the World Bank. The fight against international terrorism has put this problem on a different agenda than only in the issue of tax evasion. These tax havens are a very international problem in terms of crime and corruption, and that is why we want this on the agenda. Then we'll get back to the question of Mauritius when we get a more detailed statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e944	Let me first thank the Council of State for the strong recognition he expressed with regard to my post. He wished he had kept the post himself. I can then offer him a copy of my manuscript for later use! It won't be anything that pleases me more than if the Council of State says the same thing as the Christian People's Party leader on these questions. I am also pleased that the Council of State responded positively to the request of the Christian People's Party to increase the allocations on top. Item 160 is 70 in order to avoid cuts in the framework agreements for the long-term assistance of non-governmental organisations. There are organisations with a high level of experience and competence to renegotiate their multiannual framework agreements next year. They have strong popular anchoring and broad membership base in Norway, and they also have good networks out there. My question to the Council of State is whether he will contribute to NORAD's renegotiation of the multiannual framework agreements with non-governmental organisations next year can be carried out without prejudice to important and good umbrella organisations such as the Norwegian Mission Department of Assistance, the Atlas Alliance and Focus, based on the changes that have now been made by a majority here in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e951	I just have to admit that I don't know the details enough in relation to the last one to give a clear answer to that. I should like to come back to that, but at least the answer is that I'm going to go into the issue with NORAD to look at how what the Storting has now decided, will turn out for these organizations. I must also say that I have supported very warmly during the collection that the Norwegian Mision is now carrying out this weekend, with the hope that it can bring in a large number of new crowns from the general public to their business. We've also contributed $10 million from the government. kr for that collection, but the goal is for most people to contribute. In terms of our willingness to enter into a dialogue with the Christian People's Party in this area, it reflects something more important than the matter as such, namely, from my point of view, the very clear point that without the Church, Christian organisations and the movement of labour, we would never in Norwegian society have the force of solidarity that we have, and that the Christian People's Party and the Government stand together, and that we are proud of. It is the two pillars that have created the solidarity tradition of which we are bearers, and we are best able to continue it together between the Christian People's Party and today's government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e958	The UN reform is still a topical issue. The Left believes that deep-seated reforms need to be implemented in order for the UN to address the major challenges facing the world community. Unfair requirements should not be imposed on the reform process, including, where appropriate, an enforcement requirement for specific Norwegian views. on several Norwegian employees and that it should be linked to threats of cut in contributions. If all contributing countries were to do so, it would be an impossible task to carry out the necessary reforms. The Left realises that reforming the UN will be a long and difficult process. It will be crucial to set in motion a move in the right direction in close cooperation with like-minded countries and not to require short-term results. How does the Minister for Development view the specific Norwegian requirements and the long-term reform process of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e963	This is a very important area, Vallersnes was also in the same area. The government, I believe for the first time, as opposed to the previous government, has very clearly said that it is legitimate to make demands to the UN. We're a very important contributor, we're a number. 5 to 7 in almost all dimensions in the UN, and then it is quite reasonable that we make demands. If we don't make demands, it just means that those demands all the others make will be what gets through to the UN. So, yes, we have to make demands. Of course, Norwegian staff requirements in the UN are not the most important. For example, a much more important question is what I was talking about instead, that the UN is now facilitating transparency in its systems, so that there is full opportunity to see how the money is spent, and that one can thus follow the flow of money, as well as issues related to UN efforts for women and the environment and issues related to what is on the Stoltenberg Panel, namely to get an effective UN at country level. These are the most important questions. However, it is also legitimate for Norway to engage in a dialogue with the UN organisations on the Nordics in these organisations. It will strengthen our influence to have Nordics in leading positions. I'm glad to say that the head of the UNDP called me last week with good news about his great work to get more Norwegians into leading positions in the UNDP.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e970	I took up in my post the criticism that was made in the VG on 4 December against the Right's policy against HIV and AIDS – from the Council of State adviser – and that our budget line should lead to more people dying of the disease. I take a great deal of distance from using that kind of assertions to, I'll almost say, pausing the debate. I have explained in my article our different thinking and bet on the work to combat HIV and AIDS. There was a special number that we had reduced the UNAIDS post by 10 million. NOK 160 million. NOK 150 million. kr. I have to admit that the budget proposed by the Government is also the status quo in relation to the same budget line the year before, so that is not a special effort. But I would like to know, as I asked in my post, whether the Council of State is behind the kind of criticism – and the content of the criticism – that came from the adviser.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e975	I think the Right must tolerate that kind of peak formulation in the media. When choosing to cut significantly in areas as important as HIV and AIDS, it must be borne in mind that such expressions are used in a politically tough debate, eaten by tabloid language. There is no more than what is common in the debate here in Norway, as the members of the government experience every day, and as the Right also have to endure. That's the reality of the media, so I don't see any reason to complain about this. At the same time, I would like to use the opportunity to answer a little more specifically the question that Vallersnes asked the previous time, namely, in the case of Mauritius. The general view of tax havens, i.e. hidden paradises, as I called it, are very important. Where Mauritius is in this, we need to go closer, and it's not just a question of Norfund, either, because the institutions of a number of other state funds have investments in countries like Mauritius and parallel countries. So we need from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance, perhaps also the Ministry of Industry and others, to address these questions and see if there are any alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e982	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e985	No debate is able to promote moralism in the same way as the debate on development aid. To the last line change, I would like to say, we can take it with moralism and moral valuation of human life, but everyone sets a limit to just how much they spend. That means that, on the other hand, it would always be possible to use a little bit more. So if you want to talk about how many people had to die – in one area – with our budget, we can ask: why didn't SV 10 million spend. kr more, so maybe some less would die than those who die today? It's a dangerous relativistic way of looking at things. I think that Norwegian development aid and aid debate would have grown better if you picked any of this and let it be to put such moral boundaries and use moralism in this way in the debate. I'm e.g. not so much about whether we give 1 pst on Norwegian terms. GDP. We might as well have given 1.5 pst, 0.95 pst. or 0,85 pst. of GNI. What I'm most concerned about is that it works, and that our economic policy towards developing countries in terms of aid, debt relief or trade provides a result that contributes to the goals that we have jointly set across the world, namely the Millennium Goals. I am convinced that what is contributing today is a balance here between providing more assistance and debt relief and opening up more trade. Our position is that when WTO negotiations seem to have stopped, we should agree to take positions – and perhaps a little more than what we did in the WTO to the developing countries – on our own cloak, and not just hide behind a multilateral organisation. In fact, we have to contribute – so that we contribute to the most important means of lifting people out of poverty, what has been proven to have worked best in the last 20 years, namely economic growth and market access. All the history of developing countries shows that access to the market contributes to economic growth, and that is what once again ensures that we are able to cope with poverty in many countries. But that doesn't mean we're just going to do it. We also need to provide debt relief, and we need to provide assistance. So we're increasing aid, but not as much as others. But when it comes to moralism, I could start to measure how many other parties will shut out. I don't, because I think we should respect that we actually have different balances as to what we think helps best to help the countries out. Let me also deal with two other issues that I think are important issues, which are not so much affected. First, last week the government presented a north-eastern strategy, which I perceive in large part follows up what was in the staging message from the previous government. Despite large words, we are largely in agreement on where progress is to be made. Nevertheless, I might ask for a little more concrete and clear follow-up on some points, for example. The question of whether research work on the railways between Kirkenes and Nickel is now really under way – an exciting project, but we can, of course, do so per year. the current date is not concluded until better determined. It is a little unclear after reading the message. The second point that I would like to make is that the criticism that has been addressed to the Northern Region Strategy from outside organisations is particularly related to whether or not human rights issues have been addressed in Russia in a good enough way. I do not want to sign that this will necessarily be part of our Northern Region Strategy, but it will be part of the Norwegian strategy towards the Russian authorities. Today’s attitude gives us a clear signal from a committee that has joined the Right, that the development of human rights is worrying, especially in relation to what seems to be politically motivated – without knowing who is behind it. It is therefore extremely important for us in the future that we insist that, no matter how close we are to Russia and no matter how important Russia is in our Northern Territory strategy, we should be equally fundamental critics of human rights, of the lack of a rule of law and of transparency in Russia, as we are to countries that have less economic power and are perhaps further away from us. In fact, we have a greater responsibility to be principled in all our meetings and our dealings with Russia in just these areas. Unfortunately, it seems that Russia is moving from a communist dictatorship to a much more perhaps nationalisticly restricted and restrictive system than we would wish – based on the developments that have occurred recently. I hope that the Government will also follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1002	Let me first say something that many people have underlined in today's debate, namely that there is a rather broad consensus on the long lines of Norwegian foreign and development policy. Both the government parties, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right agree very much. Next year's aid budget is over 20 billion kroner and is the biggest aid budget we've ever had. When we see how much distress and poverty there is in the world, we can see that there is a need for every penny. The assistance budget also includes specific priorities related to women and gender equality, environmental development cooperation, peace and reconciliation and assistance for the fair management of petroleum resources. This will be an important contribution to combating extreme poverty and developing a more equitable world. Here, too, it is clear that the divisions in the policy are taking place. The Progress Party cuts about half of the assistance in its alternative budget. It's not possible to get away from the fact that this would actually have a dramatic impact. This would include, inter alia: means smaller vaccines that can save children's lives, less health care and less schooling to the most needy in the world. Today’s debate has also brought forward a new page at the Right – perhaps it is an old Right page that is coming up again – namely that they have also cut the aid side in this budget. It's really quite disappointing that the Right falls back to -- let me say -- old sins. Right-handed and aged their budgets in their previous opposition situation just by implementing quite powerful cuts on the aid side. Some of the Right cut proposals are directly alarming and therefore deserve the attention they have received in today’s debate. I think, among other things: on the proposals for UNDP, UNICEF and UNAIDS. Then it might be that right-wing cut proposals can only be interpreted as a shift in development policy, in view of the years right-wing government. The representative Højbräten put words in the debate earlier in a striking way about what this really is. We see a Right that goes a little further to the right and gives a clear signal of a break with the political centre of development policy. On Friday, the Government, with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs at its head, presented the Northern Territory Strategy of the Government. The strategy is a concrete follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. It is a national strategy of international ambitions that covers both foreign and domestic policy issues. The government will make more use of the northern areas. We will create more jobs, better environment, secure Norwegian sovereignty in the north and build on the neighbourhood of the other countries in the north, not least Russia. The North Region bet is not just a project for North Norway. It is a project for the whole of Norway and for Northern Europe, with significance for the whole continent, not least in terms of energy supply and supplies of fish and seafood. Of course, the government’s positive focus on the north has created a great enthusiasm in our northern part of the country. We're going to build on this. Let me mention some of the main points of the Northern Territory Strategy of the Government. First of all, it is to exercise our authority in the north in a credible, consistent and predictable way. It is precisely such a major and important coastal nation that Norway has to act. It is to place Norway on the international front as regards the development of knowledge about, for and in the northern regions, and it is to ensure that Norway is the foremost manager of the environment and natural resources in the northern regions. And that is to facilitate the further development of the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea and to help secure the livelihoods of indigenous peoples, industries, their history and their culture. The common denominator of the North Sea Strategy is knowledge development in a broad sense. Knowledge is the very hub of north-eastern policy, with analyses for value creation, resource use and environmental management. The strategy attaches great importance to strengthening knowledge of the northern regions. Several of the projects launched in the strategy will be part of the knowledge initiative called Barents 20/20. The relationship with Russia is naturally central to our north-eastern policy. The policy towards Russia shall be pragmatic and cooperative. At the same time, of course, Norwegian authorities do not escape addressing sensitive issues such as human rights and freedom of the press with Russian authorities. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also clearly underlined this in today's debate. The biggest global challenge today is the climate change we see coming. Future climate change will have a strong impact on the north and the Arctic. In our North Sea effort, we also need to focus on the climate challenges and how we best meet them. I am therefore pleased to note that, under its presidency in the Arctic Council, Norway will have climate issues and climate change very high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1033	The Northern Region Strategy of the Government, presented on 1 December in Tromsø, underlined that it is ‘a project for the whole country and the northernmost Europe — with significance for the whole continent’. The Christian People's Party agrees with the current government that the northern regions are very important also through foreign policy glasses. In the presentation of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government last Friday, the fine words of the Soria Moria Declaration were repeated that the northern regions are Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. But this time we were also to hear what concrete measures the government would follow up this slogan with. In this connection, the Christian People's Party gave commendation to the Government for the announcement to strengthen international cooperation in the north. There is every reason to stress that Norwegian administration and invitation to cooperation are a prerequisite for stable and sustainable development in the northern regions. However, the Christian People's Party expressed disappointment that the concrete national measures were missing in the overall strategy. Our expectations about a rise in Nordic travel, infrastructure, agriculture, fisheries and industry were not met. Just to take two examples, when it comes to the Nikel track, which is already mentioned here, you say to figure out the possibilities for it. In the case of New Corridor, an important route through Narvik, it is said that consideration should be given to supporting it. This is relevant in the foreign debate because the national and international are closely linked, which is also underlined in the foreword to the Northern Region Strategy: ‘This is more than foreign policy and it is more than domestic policy.’ It is true that Norway will have little credibility in promoting opportunities in the north if we do not also show a clear and clear commitment to national efforts in the same areas. That being said, the Christian People's Party will give praise to the Government for the efforts being made internationally to put the northern regions on the agenda. This concerns the further development of our neighbourhood with Russia, the EU and the Nordic and Western Nordic countries. It concerns the fight against illegal fishing and the management of renewable resources in the Barents Sea. It concerns the management of oil and gas resources. We are going to put the environment and climate on the agenda, and we are going to develop good living conditions and take responsibility for the rights of indigenous people. Norway continues to face a number of actual and potential security policy challenges. Regionally, this is particularly the case in the major Norwegian sea areas in the north. Both Norway's objective of sustainable management of living resources and our petroleum activities can pose challenges that can have a security policy character. The lack of international acceptance for Norwegian jurisdiction in the fishing protection zone, the unexplained dividing line with Russia and the fact that the northern regions still have a high military strategic importance for Russia are important factors in this respect. A stable development in the north is the objective, and defence is one of Norway’s main tools for achieving this goal through its ability to monitor, enhance sovereignty and exercise authority. Cooperation with Russia is important. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, when presenting the Northern Region Strategy last Friday, stated that Norway will continue to have a clear voice on issues relating to the development of Russian democracy, respect for human rights and freedom of expression. There was otherwise repeated in the article today. From the new year Norway takes over the presidency of the Nordic Council. I am pleased that the party leader of the Christian People's Party and the incoming president of the Nordic Council, Dagfinn Høybräten, is burning for the northern regions. The summit has stated that he will do what he can to strengthen cooperation in the north, and to make the northern regions higher on the international agenda. In addition, there is also reason to boast by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who on a broad front makes a powerful and effective effort in this area. The North is becoming increasingly important in global terms, and we have many common interests in the North. It is important now that we try on a broad front to change the focus – from focusing on the Baltic Sea region collection to turning northwards towards the northern regions and the Barents region again. I would like to say that, based on a common interest in the Nordic region, we can work together. We need good alliances in the face of the major acts of Russia and the United States, and not least in the face of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1056	The UN is being criticised by many teams. We've heard that several times in the last year from this pulpit. It's almost one year since the Progress Party went out and demanded a halt in all transfers to the United Nations, just in complete dissatisfaction with the organization's bureaucracy. It is right to demand improvements in the UN, but in all criticism it is important to bear in mind the fact that the UN will never become either more or less than the wishes of the Member States and is willing to change. If we sign up and don't contribute, the UN will only be weakened. The UN was established after World War II, and more than 60 years later the UN plays a crucial and outstanding role in world security and development, but the tasks of the UN have increased and the challenges have become more complex. Poverty creates unworthy living conditions for millions of people. Violent conflicts bring bad ground to both human and economic development. Exploitation and crooked structures of power make the few rich at the expense of the majority. The UN has tried to respond to precisely these challenges, and because the UN has taken on the task of doing so, a task that has become more and more complex, and is becoming so, it has now reached a point where the need for reform is evident. Therefore, some of the most important things that have happened recently, the comprehensive reform work of the United Nations is now in progress. On the same day that Norway was elected six years in a row to the world's best country to live in, our own Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg presented proposals for comprehensive reforms in the UN. The proposals will make the UN more effective in development, assistance and the environment. In short, the UN is now to organise itself as one UN outside, with one programme, one budget, one leader and one office. More predictability, simpler administration and greater trust in processes will bring better results to the UN and the Member States. This year the UN also elected Kofi Annan's successor. In my opinion, the new incoming Secretary-General from South Korea described very well the main challenge of the United Nations when he said the following: Our key now is not to construct more goals, but to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. I fully agree with that. The reform of the UN is precisely about achieving goals, and most importantly – the Millennium Goals. Reform of the UN is precisely about making the UN a stronger sword in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment. This is also why Norway is one of the most important and major contributors of the United Nations, both financially and politically, and today we are increasing support for the organisation. That's because we want to see a United Nations that's best able to achieve the Millennium Goal. Not everyone in this room agrees – on the contrary. "When I was fifteen, I stole money from such kids in Ethiopia, and I stole one thousand eight hundred twenty-seven dollars and fifty cents. My friend Tom was in on it. I could claim that he was the brain behind it, but it would be to disclaim responsibility. We were together about it, Tom and I." This is how the book Emergency, by the author Are Kalvø, begins. The main character and the comrade Tom – they've been tempted, and they've used the collection money that was actually going to poor children in Africa to buy candy and Beatles music records. I can't help thinking about these two main characters in the book of Are Kalvø when I read the budget proposals for the Progress Party and the Right. The advance party also steals money from poor children in Ethiopia, and the comrade Right is on it. I had hoped that they would do as the young main character in the Kalvø book, that they had taken responsibility for this today and admitted it – admitted that they have actually spent the money that was actually going to poor children in Africa, on tax and asphalt, instead of to people elsewhere. When right cutters add up to 550 million. In fact, they steal money from hungry, AIDS-sick and orphan children in Ethiopia and elsewhere in the world. When the Advance Party cuts half the aid budget when they cut over 90 pst. bilaterally in Africa, and when they propose to halve support for many UN organisations, they do exactly what the fifteen-year-olds in the book do – they steal from hungry, orphans and AIDS children and adults in Ethiopia and elsewhere in the world. It is therefore very disappointing to see the Right moving towards the Progress Party in Development Policy. Saving the world wasn't for my comrade, says Kalvø's main character at the end of the book. – I wish I knew before we went so far that we stole from the kids in Ethiopia. I hope that the Right too thinks about, to stay on and stay on the Progress Party line in development policy is really not a step towards saving the world. After all, when we go home from here tonight and get laid and think about it, that's actually why we're sitting on the Stortinget. Isn't that what it's really about every single day -- saving not all of it, so at least a little bit of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1095	International cooperation is important in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, but it is also important for the values on which we believe that international solutions and development should be based. We're going to use all available arenas, Nordic, European, transatlantic and UN levels. I have noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not want to use the term ‘a small country’ about Norway. Results in relation to our ambitions also require an active attitude. I would first like to commend the Government for the clear and visible increase in activity internationally, whether in the north, transatlantic, UN reform or initiatives in different conflict areas. So some points of view that relate to our closest neighbours. The government has really put the northern areas on the agenda, specifically with regard to the North Sea initiative launched last week, bilaterally with regard to cooperation with Russia and the revision of the northern dimension of the EU. This means that there is an agreement between the EU, Norway, Iceland and Russia that provides opportunities also in the north to develop cooperation with other stakeholders, such as the United States and Canada. In the north, we have national, own interests, but obviously also common interests with our neighbours. Here we are not going to look blindly at budget sizes, but also at the increased cooperation itself, which has led to a great commitment and a great optimism in the north. It involves resource use and management, which are of common interest. It also applies to the environment and climate. When the ice melts, we have a common problem. But it also involves direct people-to-people cooperation, culture, business development and addressing health challenges. In short, we are experiencing an old cooperation with our eastern neighbours. It is not surprising, after suspicious deaths to regime critics of the Kremlin, that we also today stress that we must follow our traditions of keeping the tab high on democracy and human rights. The government has an offensive European policy to protect Norwegian interests and to influence decisions in the EU that we know have implications for Norway. We are members of the internal market and the four freedoms. We want common standards and common legislation to be developed, but it is becoming increasingly difficult in an EU that includes more and more with its own interests, and an EEA agreement that does not cover development in all areas. The government has presented its own big message on European policy, which is now being discussed in the United Kingdom. There are key words ‘clear and past priorities’, ‘coordination and coordination’, ‘skilllessness and openness’ and ‘debate in Norwegian society’. There is a holistic approach beyond being expertly represented in committees. In general, the call for proposals has received positive support in the hearings. Membership is not on the agenda. It is the EEA Agreement that is our contact with the EU. But it also provides an opportunity for a debate on the issues. I note that reports from the recently established European Forum highlight the fact that it is now possible to discuss EU/EEA matters without getting into the trenches. The government has invited the Stortinget to a stronger involvement from two important perspectives: a broader anchoring in the EU/EEA Squad and early involvement in the process. I have registered that all parties have an interest in such increased participation. The development of common legislation also means difficult issues, such as the service directive. I encourage the Government to have an open and inclusive process in terms of the effects of the final product currently available. I would also like to underline the need to involve more bilateral cooperation actors in the significant contribution we are going to make to new EU Member States. Finally, let me mention the importance of the Council of Europe in the overall European architecture. It shall contribute to democracy, legal certainty and human rights on the European continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1121	The President will point out the previous speaker's accusations of stealing. Such expressions are not used for their colleagues. The President feels the need to point that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1124	We want the North, because they have so nice cars, they said in East African villages 20 years ago. This was one of the conclusions of an evaluation of the efforts of the African Peace Corps. The shape of peace corps no longer exists. I think it indicates that a teacher of them failed to do so, and that one changes the map after the terrain. It's a big budget. In total, the grants to foreign aid amount to DKK 25 billion. Yesterday, we are dealing with the defence budget. That's $31 billion. We're almost getting balanced here. In Afghanistan, there is probably a proper balance between civil and military contributions. What does such a large budget tell us? Of course, it gives enormous influence, not least to the Minister of Development. We give a lot of money and we're going to continue to give you a lot of money. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is not here right now, but it is clear that the political influence we so much want is also involved in developing the policy that is needed out there. That's the combination of these two hands in hand that must be the sum that we all should work to reach. It may be discussed academically whether it is a kind of Norwegian good idea. But what does that do? I have never heard that someone has been hurt by having good intentions. And of course, it'll be so that we don't always succeed. But the Progress Party and the Right also know that it is important that we can influence politics here in the Grand Duchy. In the previous period, Højlund and I were in Brazil. We were at a great meeting with a rainforest organization. We got to see that maybe there should be a better order of the environmental aid there. We brought this up when we came home to Norway, together with voluntary organizations, and we got a co-conspirator's committee on this. The previous government began work, and this government is carrying out the work so that there are changes in how we implement environmental policy in aid policy, i.e. more of an action plan. We're asking, are we really doing what we said we were going to do? Then, of course, we have Norfund and the indigenous people, and we have to get this right. But I believe that in general, the government listens to what the Storting says, when we, together with voluntary organisations and other practitioners, say that the course needs to be adjusted a little. At least the Minister of Development, as I have heard him today, is very positive to the recordings that we had to make, because it is clear that it can be better. Everything can get better. I'm not going to put myself up in the volume debate, because I'm sure we'll discuss that many times later. But then it's so that it's not always they want us, if we never have that much money and never so many flags. In Sudan, where perhaps the greatest crisis in Africa is now, they will not have us for political reasons. It should make us think through why, and what political processes are going on. We should be careful there. We should follow in the work of the United Nations, where one actually challenges the historic fact that states are sovereigns. However, through Canada's work on the «Responsibility to Protect» report, it is quite clear that we have a responsibility to protect, to protect the civilian population and to protect individuals. This is set reasonably firmly. It challenges old sovereignty policies, but with this, we can see that both yesterday's budget of NOK 31 billion and today's budget of NOK 25 billion actually benefit those who play the most. Then we get to make sure that both the civil and the military efforts benefit those who like the most, and that is what we achieve with our policies. We can't possibly adopt this here in the house, but we can all be involved and contribute, whether it's the officers who put here yesterday, or the NGOs that are present today. But we can all help to make us feel better. It will be the Georgian knot in international operations, which it is called in the military, but also in relation to that we want to mean something, we want influence. So just short of microcredit: what has happened to the cancellation of debt is of course very good. Microcredit lucky for a reason. That's because we have an interest rate of up to 20 pst. Why does one do this better with microcredit? Well, because one warrants for each other-- either for the neighbor, for an aunt, an uncle, or a grandfather. The problem with it is that if you don't get this right, it can hit back hard. If a cannot pay the debt, it can affect an entire community. We've seen some trends, but in general, microcredit is good, just because one gets the interest down, and one gets security. When we delete debt, and we have to delete debt, it's because security was too bad. Maybe the loan was too bad thought. At least there is no doubt that both the Nobel Committee and the Stortinget are some of the microcredit has ahead of them in the future. We can do more on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1145	Yesterday's debate on next year's defence budget showed a broad consensus on Norwegian defence and security policy, with a few minor exceptions. Today's debate shows that there is broad agreement also on Norwegian foreign policy, with some exceptions also here, among others. in the view of development assistance. Norway, as a small international actor — let me use that concept because the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that we should not say that Norway is a small country — is completely dependent on bilateral and international cooperation. At the same time, we should not underestimate what we can contribute, despite the fact that we are initially a small player. The fact that Norway is now in the driver’s seat to modernise the UN is very good. The UN must be able to have the function and position that the United Nations should and should have. The UN is one of the pillars of Norwegian foreign and security policy and will continue to be so in the future. The second pillar is our NATO membership. Norway’s relationship with NATO for nearly 60 years has been crucial for peace and reconciliation throughout the North Atlantic region, including in Norway. But the world has changed, and Europe has changed. That's why NATO is also changing. There is a great deal of focus on the EU and enlargement of the EU. I also want to underline the extension of NATO that has taken place and that is going to continue. Both in advance of, during and now after the NATO summit in Riga, it becomes clear that there is a great deal of interest in joining the alliance. That's understandable. NATO is no longer just a defence alliance, as many have traditionally seen on the alliance. NATO is today just as much a guarantor of peace and reconciliation in Europe. To put it a little tabloid – NATO has gone from bullets and powdered to peace and reconciliation. In many of the countries that may become NATO members in the coming years, Serbia, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania, perhaps also Georgia and Ukraine – it is difficult to predict the future – a future NATO membership is seen as a great opportunity for stability and reconciliation. It makes the impression – a strong impression – to meet politicians from countries in the Balkans and from countries in the Caucasus, who are almost on their knees and ask Norway to be positive for their country to become a member of NATO. Norway should be open and constructive here, as we were, for example, in relation to Serbia at the Riga Summit, for which I would also give the Government the credit. Enlargement of NATO to the east is not unproblematic with Russia. More people today have been involved in the relationship with Russia. Probably Georgia’s great interest in NATO membership is one of the reasons for the very acute situation between Russia and Georgia at the moment. However, this reminds us of the importance of dialogue with Russia. We can be as stated as we will, but we have to have dialogue with Russia. The relationship between Georgia and Russia reminds us of what minefield the Caucasus is. We may know best the unrest in Chechnya, but the Caucasus has many unresolved conflicts. And so this is right on the edge of Europe, or maybe in Europe, someone would say. After all, one will never agree on where the borders between Europe and Asia go in the area. There are unrest in the North Caucasus within the Russian Federation, in Chechnya, in the North Ossetia and in Dagestan, but also in the South Caucasus, in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, and the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh is perhaps the most urgent one to find a solution. I believe that NATO can play a role in the region, with Turkey in the south as a NATO member, with dialogue with Russia in the north and with the Caucasus in the middle. I hope that Europe can play a more active role and that Norway can play a more active role and contribute to promoting peace in Nagorno-Karabakh and in the long term create peace throughout the Caucasus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1174	Energy is an important part of the international challenge we face, and probably the most important challenge for the world in the long term. Norway as an energy nation should aim to participate and contribute internationally. Then we need perspectives that go far beyond our domestic energy debate on heat pumps and pellet stoves. The Northern Region bet for the Government is part of the contribution to a great energy effort, and the Advance Party is very positive to it. The Nordgebiet bet will be important for local business and housing. It is important for the domestic market of our supplier industry for the petroleum industry and will be the prerequisite for the leading technology development that our supplier industry has. For Norway as a petroleum nation it is important to have a bet on oil in the north, because we have great expectations of finding, and we know of very much of the remaining reserves are in arctic strokes. If Norway can be a forerunner there, we will have great business opportunities in the long term. For the world’s energy consumption, what Norway is doing with its potential petroleum resources in the northern regions is also of great interest. The government says a lot right when they talk about their bet in the north, but the substance is unfortunately missing when we go after the promises in the seams. For the petroleum activities in the northern regions, the most prospective areas are still closed. It was a little interesting to observe the government's great words when they put forward their bet last Friday, because very much of what was said about energy and the northern regions, is a pure repetition of what the government said when they presented the management plan for the northern regions. That means that you can already start to see how much you can trust the promises that were made. Unfortunately, in the case of the oil bet in the north, it is relatively small. We know that it is a difficult matter for the Government, where SV has been abastant against, and linked to most installations that were intended for petroleum activity, while the Workers' Party was usually positive, although it was the workers' party government that closed Northland VI. The compromise to the Government is known as buying time by identifying the major controversial areas. Nordland VI, Nordland VII and Troms II were to be mapped, not opened. On the other hand, industry and the local population were given the impression that this screening would not lead to a real delay in the progress of any petroleum activity. But the reality we see in the 2007 budget is that the allocations to the Oil Directorate to carry out this survey are too low to follow up the process. Obtaining information will not be available to the business community, and we may suspect that there is a deliberate training from SV in this area. My fear is that the Stortinget does not have the information you need in 2010, to carry out a new evaluation of the petroleum activity in the north, and a new delay in this will have a major impact on our North bet, and not least on how our largest neighbouring country looks at Norwegian management responsibility for energy resources. When energy is one of the important issues on the world’s agenda ahead, it is important that Norway deal with this properly. Then I hope that the state councils present today will see that you have to follow the promises you make. That's not enough with big words. Another area that I also challenge the Government to follow up is thorium bet. We know that the Danish State Council has promised to investigate this, but the Danish State Council has promised action plans ‘in cabins and rifles’, without having delivered a single plan so far. We know that there are 1.6 billion people without power on the globe, and if they're going to get a wealth level that's kind of in line with what we have in the West, it'll take huge amounts of new energy. Calculations estimate approx. four times greater energy consumption in 100 years, even with massiveincrease measures. The image is quite dark when you look at today's energy supply, cf. the latest IEA report. Energy prices are already under pressure, China has gone from being a net exporter to being a net importer of coal, and it has helped to push energy prices up globally. When we know at the same time that there is an opportunity to use thorium as an energy resource, that Norway has great competence in much of the challenges in this area, and that we have great resources, the Government, if it is serious about helping the poor world get out of the poverty trap, should look at the use of energy. Then thorium is a bet area that you should pick up. Finally, I note great criticism of the Progress Party on the aid side. It's not how much money we spend on u-help, but that things work. Those who have read the opinion of the Committee will see that we, among other things: have said that we want to bet on testing the biomembrane as a u-helper. There can be a few very much back for relatively little money. It will be much better than having a race about who spends the most money on u-help. I challenge the Council of State to follow up a possible testing of the biomembrane.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1198	Norway has a good reputation in large parts of the world for sharing and sharing with those who need help. For the Workers' Party, international solidarity is an important part of our historical-political stance. I would like to point out the responsibility we have to take care of those who are not so lucky that they live in Norway or similar countries, with our safety net and our health care system – one of the foremost in the world. As one of those lucky enough to be sent to the UN this fall, I see the importance of Norway's role in the fight against poverty, for better health and as an active peacemaker. This was also evident in the discussions we had with various organisations associated with the United Nations — how important it is that we participate in money, in order for other countries to participate in it as well. Norway has joined the UN’s Millennium Goals, and the fight to achieve the Millennium Goals can only take place with joint effort. This is done very well through UN organisations, such as the United Nations. UNICEF, UNFPA AND UNIFEM. In UNICEF, where Norway is the second largest contributor, the funds go mainly to children and to the protection of children, and we get good effect from the money sent. Norway is responsible for the Millennium Development Goal 4, which aims to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. This is ambitious, but absolutely possible – whether we contribute funds. Our participation in the vaccination programme and our Prime Minister's commitment to reducing child mortality are therefore part of the job for which we have taken responsibility. We have reason to be proud of this. When we know that more than ten million children die each year of diseases that can be treated, and that two thirds of these deaths could have been avoided with good and proper treatment, it is difficult to grasp the proposals of the Progress Party in terms of both transfers to the UN and for assistance. With a cut of 10 billion in aid, where almost all aid to Africa is cut, and where support to the UN is halved, the alarm clocks should ring. What kind of help is that Progress Party thinks we should give? How are we going to get to the individual without spending money? Usually, the Progress Party says that we have enough money. – Enough for ourselves, yes, but not for others, it is better to say. Many with me should be pleased that the Progress Party does not get a majority in favour of its proposal. For me it would rather be that we can grant money so that one more child survives, it's worth all the money we give. When an eleven-year-old representative from Sierra Leone at a conference we were at tells us what it's like to live in a country over 70 p.m. of the country's population lives on less than 1 dollar per year. today, and asking thinly that the world do something about the diseases that can actually be prevented, it is strong, and also something that the representatives of the Progress Party should notice. It is through UN organisations that we can reach the many, with a targeted action plan to achieve exactly what we want. We can agree that the UN should improve in many areas, perhaps especially in administration, and Norway too has an important driving role. A more efficient administration will give more money to those who need it. The question is, what is the alternative to the UN? Which other people are in conflict with each other, next to each other, and can talk to each other? In my view, there are few alternatives to what the United Nations is doing. Another measure of the red-green government is equality, also elsewhere than in Norway. The additional allocation now granted for that purpose, EUR 200000, will contribute to targeted support that does not naturally fall under other appropriations. It is in addition to the appropriations used for gender and gender mainstreaming in other development cooperation. Are there such measures that the Progress Party will cut, or are there peace-keeping measures, health measures aimed at women who have been abused or who have suffered severe birth defects, or measures aimed at children? Cut will, of course, be followed by reduced offers for all of these. In our small world, with Norway's good economy, we can safely support the measures taken by the United Nations and rather aim to increase aid. I was and am proud to come from a country that contributes to eradicating differences and helping those who have not been as fortunate as us!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1221	Let me first of all distance myself from the unparliamentary language that we heard here from the representative of Trettebergstien. I record that if you base the representative's argument, you steal money and money from the world's poorest by not using any extra 1 billion kroner, or reach your own target of 1 pst. assistance to gross national income. Let me then come to the important point, that we see a world in development, a world that is now more closely interwoven than ever, a world where even more people can take part in economic prosperity, a world where life in developing countries has gone from 30 years in 1900 to 65 years in 1998, where child mortality in the same developing countries has fallen from 18 p.m. from 1950 to 6 p.p. in 1995, a world in which malnutrition was so prominent that 37 p.m. of children in developing countries lived in constant malnutrition in 1970, while the same figure is now estimated to be about 12 pst. in 2010. All of this is very happy. To the Right, the fight against poverty is absolutely central, not only to the achievement of the UN's Millennium Goals, for which we naturally support, but also for human reasons. To achieve this, we need to combine different instruments. Our assistance needs to focus more on clean water, on accessing mosquito nets where malaria is extensive, on education and on improving infrastructure. Right-wing priority is given to assistance, which this debate has not been particularly marked on the part of the government parties. We're increasing the budget for assistance by 2.5 pst. beyond 2006 levels. The inflation adjustments are well above them. At the same time, the Right also wants to go further away from budget support. We see that in a country that Uganda represents about 50 pst. of the State budget contributions from non-resident donors, including Norway — which, of course, results in a democratic deficit. You get a president like Museveni, who is far more concerned with obtaining new gifts than with providing wealth created by his own people. Unfortunately, this is a problem, and we are taking it seriously. At the same time, the right supports the grip the Government takes, and some praise is deserved absolutely, especially in the case of debt cancellation, but more remains. Finally, trade: I want to quote the chairman of the committee, Olav Akselsen, who said in the debate today that trade is absolutely crucial. I totally agree with that. When hundreds of millions of people have only been brought out of poverty in countries like India and China in the last ten years, it is due to economic growth and trade. When a country like Zambia in 1964 was almost twice as rich as South Korea, and when it is seen today that the same South Korea has a wealth level with Western Europe, it is precisely because South Korea has participated in international trade. South Korea has put economic growth on the agenda, and has had a policy to achieve it. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of Zambia. In 1960, when you went from extreme poverty in Indonesia, at 58 p.m., to 15 p.m. in 1990, and even lower now — well and mark with a realignment during the Asia crisis — and when the same figures for Malaysia were from 37 p.m. extreme poverty in 1960 to 5 p.m. In 1990, and even lower now, it is precisely because these countries have been among the Asian tigers. They are tigers, not because of aid or debt cancellation, but because they have an economic policy in which they have opened up their borders to imports of goods, and not least because they have been sold their goods on the international market. That is why, unfortunately, the Government's budget is a disappointment in terms of poverty reduction. And for the sake of correctness, the first two points are good, but on the point of commerce, you don't do anything. On the other hand, the right emphasis is on not only using the possibility of duty-free access for the MUL countries, which was implemented in 2002, but we also want to include 90 new countries from next year. Many of these countries are just Norway’s main co-operation countries in terms of assistance. We know that economic growth leads to democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1238	I would like to elaborate on the part of the representative Alf Ivar Samuelsen's contributions on assistance. There are several happy features of the aid budget that are being agreed today. The budget has increased sharply, DKK 2.2 billion more than this year. That means that more women get access to education and work. It means strengthening health and environmental law work, education and good governance. The centre party is pleased to note that, with the exception of the Advance Party, all batches are united on a common note stating that an important commitment to achieving the Millennium Goal is to secure their own food production and focus on food security and the right to clean water. In sum: a wide range of individuals and local communities are given access to a better everyday life, to a new start. The award of the Nobel Peace Prize this year means a lot to those who are the most involved, but it will also mean a new grant for microfinance, a new understanding and an increased belief in, including in Norway, the Government's emphasis on stimulating grassroots levels. Not least I think increasing focus will also go on the importance of local anchoring in our aid work. From time to time, there are high-sounding debates about what resources from Norway actually go to. There have been some such recordings today. We've seen it in the media the very last time, Nordfund-saka is one example. It is good that the Minister of Development gives such clear notice that all aspects of this matter should be highlighted. Yesterday's report on assistance to indigenous people is another example. Focusing on consistency between targets and means is an important reminder at any time. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has announced the continuation of active cooperation with voluntary and non-profit organisations. Many organisations have a unique ability to spend extra time, and perhaps also to do the longest, in the applications they submit. But it is important to stress that sending out employees from many organisations also serves as extra good ambassadors in Norway when reporting on what they are doing. It is grassroots, members of the organizations at home, who follow and ask questions. Then the sum will increase the understanding and commitment of many Norwegian communities about the importance of assistance. Yesterday's reports underline the importance of examining both the project applications well in advance and the subsequent reports. The centre party is also content with the Government's strong commitment to countering and preventing corruption. Let me underline the dialogue between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian National Audit Office in order to contribute further to the strengthening of independent state control functions in our countries of cooperation. The National Audit Office announced in the 2007 budget the creation of a separate department responsible for developing its audits by other countries as part of Norwegian aid — exciting news. So in the end -- increasing funds, increasing commitment, being able to think new and creatively: let me just remind you of our wish that not increasing involvement in other fields will follow the major challenges that will continue for many years in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1256	I am very pleased that Norwegian assistance is now approaching a nationally sought target, i.e. 1 pst. of our gross national income. It is important that Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, takes its share of responsibility for the development of the poor part of the world. Norwegian political history and the little experience I have gained from Norwegian aid policy have taught me that two issues, in particular, which are interrelated, are crucial for all poverty reduction, namely: the way out of poverty is through working countries and the population has a functioning infrastructure Some of the explanation that some African countries have now actually had some economic growth is attributed, among other things, to the fact that some African countries have had some economic growth. a better functioning road network. The simple fact that the rural population is able to transport its agricultural products from rural to larger population centres, including in the rainy season, is an obvious source of economic growth. Last night I had a longer conversation with Jan Tore Odd, who runs a joint Norwegian and EU-funded project in Zambia. The project now approaching the end is about something as prosaic as the introduction of anti-corruption weight control on Zambian roads. In short, it is about preventing overweight vehicles from destroying roads, with the result that the road network needs to be rehabilitated and renewed after a short time, at huge cost to a poor country. It is not by chance that this project is led by a Nordic with a background in Norwegian administrative tradition. We have knowledge and competence in this field. And above all, we have a credible relationship with the fight against corruption. Nor does it happen that a country like Botswana is now using Norwegian road technology for its own account in the development of the road network in its country. Few here have heard of the Otta deck, an oily pit cover that was developed in the Gudbrand valley in the 1960s. This tyre is particularly suitable for low-traffic roads in countries with high temperature fluctuations. The Otta deck is good, it's cheap, and it's now being put on the roads in many African countries. In other words, Norwegian road technology of both old and new dates is in demand in large parts of the world. When I mention this, it's because the head of the Road Directorate's International Office, Kjell Levik, sent me a message of concern here by day. He is concerned that road and transport seems to be disappearing from the aid programme. I don't know if this is a political signal, but as I understand it, at least this is what is perceived by the government here and in the embassies. I think it would be sad if we now from the Norwegian side were to liquidate our engagement in an area that is obviously in demand, and where we are good. The beneficiary countries will have a way, and they need a way – away from poverty, to quote Tanzania’s vice-president. I also believe that Norwegian aid should be set up in order to contribute as much as possible to economic development and employment in the beneficiary countries. Most experienced in aid work have seen how bad it can be when major projects are launched in international competitions, without requiring labour-intensive production or the use of national and local raw materials and labour. I therefore believe that Norwegian authorities should consistently impose requirements on employment and industrial development when we are involved in financing developing developing countries. It could be a natural political consequence of the award of the Year's Peace Prize. I have experienced for myself what it was like when small maintenance contracts in Tanzania were awarded to women in rural areas, who for the first time had access to paid work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1282	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1285	I would first like to link that a few comments on issues that focused on concrete initiatives in the northern regions, among others. by the representative of Sahl and the representative of Solberg. It was about the Nikel track and Narvik. This is specifically mentioned in the strategy. We're very concerned about lighting the possibilities for progress there. As far as the Nikel track is concerned, we need to know more about the transport needs of such a path. We must not get hurt to build a path that will not be goods or people who want to use. Whether it should be at sea or on rail is one of the issues to be considered. The same with Narvik. There is still an investigation which we are now starting with a broader investigation into transport needs, the infrastructure needs of the northern regions as a whole. Then I would like to make a comment on what the Progress Party said earlier in the debate. In the setting, the Progress Party makes a big point about the relationship with the United States. It's said that we need to spend more time and attention taking care of the transatlantic connections, the relationship with the United States, than we've done now. But I just want to stress, as the Development Minister was also concerned, that if our message was that we halve or cut the effort for peace and reconciliation by 60-70 p.m., they're going to shut their eyes up in Washington. They will lose Norway as a very important partner in Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, the Balkans and Afghanistan, and it cannot possibly serve Norwegian relations with the United States. It's not to open doors in the United States that we're doing this, but at least it has a very important and recognised effect. The Progress Party has called for us to be critical of where we spend the money, and they are proposing to halve the aid because they believe it does not produce results. Then I have to ask: Has the Progress Party assessed organisation in its setting? They don't propose a cut at UNICEF, no cut at the World Food Programme, no cut at the High Commissioner for Refugees, but they suggest cutting at UNRWA – the organisation that helps Palestinian refugees – from 150 million. NOK 15 million. Have they evaluated UNRWA and found out that we won't get anything left for the money there? The Palestinians can trade with Norway, and then they will avoid the aid traps. So this cut, which is equal to 135 million. kr – will basically help the Palestinians. The same is true of the UN population programme, which cuts from 332 million. NOK 83 million. – a cut of approx. 250 million. kr. Is it based on an evaluation of the population programme? And is support for UNICEF maintained as a result of an evaluation of UNICEF? To me, it seems like you've moved on with the hare lab and picked up a few million from here and a few million from there. It would have been interesting to know if a thorough documentation and the type of critical evaluation that the Progress Party calls for, and we would like to welcome, namely a critical view of the outcome of what we are doing, or whether it is to raise money, a little here and a little there – and how the cut off of the Palestinian aid programme is particularly outrageous.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1298	I would like to take the opportunity to add something that was not time for my first post. I concluded by referring to a clothing modesty in connection with the fact that we have happily managed to remove a black spot in Norwegian aid policy. At the same time, I note that we have received a positive response to the clear position of the Soria Moria Declaration on the World Bank and the WTO. These are known and referred to by civil society and other actors from poor developing countries, who hope that Norway outside the EU can play an active role in a fairer distribution. I see that as a declaration of trust. Like previous speakers, I would like to make some comments about this with peace and reconciliation. The Central Party is very pleased that we have managed to maintain the level of budget presented, at a time when we are experiencing increasing levels of violence and conflicts around the world, and where we have seen that someone has resorted to military means to resolve conflicts. It was interesting to see the future U.S. Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, on TV yesterday. He clearly replied no to what he considered an American opportunity to win the war in Iraq. It makes me come up with an old Chinese saying that defines who's the best doctor. They start with the doctor who's the worst, he's the one who cures the disease. The second best doctor is he who removes the symptoms, and the best is he who removes the causes of the symptoms. I don't think a military, surgical intervention is the solution to many of the conflicts we're facing, because the cause is the distribution of resources. There is a gap between poor and rich countries, and there is considerable poverty in many countries that is creating the basis for these conflicts. That is why the means of peace and reconciliation are so important, they must provide opportunities for conflict resolution, they can start with the development of democracy, and this is above all a means of building society. That's why I think we can go a long way through these funds. I am sorry that the Progress Party chooses to cut just where it is so important to have an effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1311	The northern regions are important. They are actually our main economic interest in the future. They are important in research, security, transport, fisheries, oil and gas, they are important in relation to a people's people's cooperation with Russia, and not least a huge challenge in dealing with Finnmark and Russia as such being on both sides of a border that actually represents the largest social division in the world. If it had been so that the government had added up to a really strategic expansion in the north, I would have been very pleased. But for a year when we have the President of the Nordic Council, the head of the Arctic Council, it's Polar Year, and in addition to the Vice-Chairman of the EU's Northern Dimension, the North bet is the size of eight to ten one-dwelling houses. That's the bet in the north! The only part of this that I've seen is contentment, is actually the Sameting, which represents under 1 pst. by the population. They are satisfied – everyone else believes that this is too small a bet. That is why the Progress Party has invested 100 million in its alternative budget. kr more to bet on the north, and we have also increased the health dimension in our alternative budget. This is important, not only in terms of helping a small population group in Russia, but also in terms of ensuring the security of their own citizens in Norway. Is it so that we want economic growth in the future, too, so that we can best care for our children, actually Russia is a big key. We need to be involved in raising the social level in Russia if we are to achieve economic growth in Norway, Sweden, Finland, and ultimately throughout Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that an investigation had to be carried out on the railway. If he wants an investigation, I have two pieces in my office – one that was made early in the 1990s, and one that was made a year ago – so these investigations are very present today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1322	Much of this debate has been about Norwegian aid policy, and that is right and fair, because it is most of the budget that we will adopt later today. I have to say that the Right's defence for its change of course in the area of aid policy is alarmingly weak. It has been largely an attack on the criticisms of other parties, and the characteristics of this criticism as moralism. For my part, I would say that I argued against Right's new policy, and did not pursue any morality on my part. Peter Gitmark is the exception. He has shown some good examples of countries that have risen from poverty to growth and development through trade. It's positive. We agree that more countries must come to you. But the starting point for African countries is basic, basic needs that are not covered. Generations would be responsible for production in the country, which are eradicated from HIV/AIDS and diseases that can be treated and prevented. These are the countries we need to lift out of extreme poverty through increased aid. That's the broad international consensus on that. Then I see that I have to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because there is a ambiguity that hangs in the air after his posts. He said that, in his opinion, Norway has not received a new request for troops to Afghanistan. A letter that came to the Storting yesterday from his colleague the Minister for Defence shows an answer to the same question: ‘The Chief of Defence received on 1 November of that year. a letter from the NATO commander-in-command repeating previous requests by NATO military authorities for contributions. [[...]] This was a standard letter which went to all heads of defence in NATO, with separate attachments for each country.’ This means specific requests relating to Norway. I then have to ask: is it the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs who gives a correct information to the Stortinget? I recall the duty of the members of the Government to inform the Storting sufficiently, not misleadingly, not inconspicuously, but clearly, clearly and intelligibly. I ask the Foreign Minister, on behalf of the Government, to clear up in this disparity between the wording of his colleague, the Minister of Defence, and the wording he himself used in his speech here today from the Parliamentary Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1340	Let me finally comment on some issues that have come to mind in the debate. Peter Gitmark, in a very good speech, gave a very good overview of how some countries in East Asia have had a formidable economic progress, while countries in Africa have become lagging behind. I think we should agree that the most crucial factor in why this has happened is neither trade nor aid, but that the East Asian countries have well-functioning states – yes, they have problems, but nevertheless the well-functioning states – that have been able to handle both trade and aid to a degree that most African countries unfortunately are not. That's why one of the main purposes of almost all the assistance we're doing is to help build states. It is also the main challenge in Afghanistan, not letting aid go beyond the state, but letting it build a state, for without a state there will never be peace in Afghanistan. The same reasoning applies almost anywhere else. So Solvik-Olsen said that energy should be a focus of development policy. Then I'll invite him into the dialogue about this. This has made the government one of the four areas of activity, precisely because it is one of the areas in which Norway has natural advantage and historical competence. To the Progress Party: Get involved and discuss how we can better use Norway's energy competence in development policy. Then several speakers have been about China's role in Africa. I'm not that pessimistic there that some people have expressed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had its own study of China’s role in Africa. I think the main picture of this after all is positive. First of all, China is the country that's doing exactly what the right-hand side here is calling for, they're trading Africa first and foremost. China is contributing to cheaper goods almost everywhere in Africa. However, China also now has more and more elements of seeking dialogue with Western countries on how to positively influence African countries. I was just in Washington talking to Bush’s leading adviser in Sudan, Natsios. He was full of praises for how China has now contributed to pushing Sudan into the issue of UN force and AU force in Darfur, and how the United States and China, together with Kofi Annan, at a meeting in Addis Ababa a few weeks ago, stood as a common front, and not split, to the Sudanese government. Several speakers have requested that we continue to invest in Africa. Of course, Africa, as the poorest continent, should be a major area of development policy. Let me finally mention Burundi, which is a country we are now going to go into with considerably more weight. This is because Burundi, along with Rwanda and Congo, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs was in, is the most vulnerable area on the globe. Nowhere have so many people been killed in massacres and political unrest. Now there's a positive sign in Burundi. Norway has been given responsibility, through the UN Peace Building Commission, to direct efforts to contribute to the reconstruction of Burundi. We will take that responsibility through the UN. At the same time, we will start a bilateral aid programme in Burundi. The details about this we will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1353	Only a few comments on the Minister of Foreign Affairs' last post. A debate on what makes the Americans most upset in the Norwegian foreign policy debate could be interesting. We're not necessarily convinced that we're the ones who get short in this way, and believe that the government on several fronts, not least in relation to our NATO exposure, has not followed up the way you should. So to the direct claim that our cut is about to raise some money, and that we go with hare lab over the budget. We've done as thorough assessments as we could based on the information and the knowledge we have. Of course, it's probably possible to acquire even more knowledge in this area. I want to challenge the Government to present what the basis is, what the evaluation is, for the relatively large increase that the Government has introduced into the United Nations system of the various organizations, and what it is based on. Then we may get a focused debate on these things. We are quite willing to look ahead to which UN organisations it is important to build on. We have no static obligation in relation to the ones we're now shielding, far from it. But I'm asking for respect for making our assessments based on the knowledge that we have available at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1364	There is a growing recognition that a well-functioning ecosystem is a prerequisite for development. It should also be reflected in a foreign policy debate. When we face challenges like that in the coming hundred years we can change the climate and the average temperature of the earth more than we have done in the ten thousand years that have gone by since the last ice age, then the seriousness starts to come up for us. In my view, enabling economic development and growth in both rich and poor countries without risking environmental disasters locally and globally is the greatest and most demanding challenge for humanity in this century, as well as combating poverty. With a billion people still living on a dollar or under a dollar a day, we need growth, but it has to be sustainable. Zero growth is not a solution, but the decoupling of economic growth from the growth of environmentally hazardous emissions is essential. The challenge will therefore be to stimulate economic growth without any growth in the destruction of wetlands, biodiversity and rainforest and harmful chemicals and garbage. Every day, we probably lose more than 100 species. Over the course of a year, 40,000 species are likely to disappear from the surface of the earth. It's a bit of a will to leave behind. That is why I am pleased that, in fact, until next year, Norway will also spend more on environmental aid. I think that is a positive step in the right direction, but of course it has to do more in the coming years. In the UN-supported global study on the state of the world's ecosystems, it was well established that the economic development of the world has failed to take care of ecosystems' capacity to produce vital goods and services for the benefit of the world's population. It shows that half of all the wetlands in the world are destroyed. This disturbs the entire ecosystem. Norway should refrain from following such a ‘business as usual’ approach. Without changing today's trend, global greenhouse gas emissions will double by 2030. In this scenario, it is also important that Norway set a good example of investing in those countries that are now establishing a new coal-fired power plant every two weeks. Norway may be involved and influence in a positive direction through more environmental assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1379	I will be able to answer the questions from Dagfinn Højbräten. It is correct that Norway received a letter to the head of defence about 1 November with a call for contributions to Afghanistan. Of course, what the Minister of Defense writes is absolutely correct, and I fully support it. It was one of several recordings that came up against the force generation conference in NATO around November 20th. We believe that the same enquiry, the same type of enquiry, which then entered a military channel, has also entered a political channel through the Secretary-General and the NATO Council environment, and we had a relatively lively exchange of it in the middle of October. It's the same thing, nothing new. Let me also underline from this speaker: this was also mentioned by the Minister of Defence and me in meeting with the body of the Storting, the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, in mid-November. So it was our opinion that this was the same kind of enquiry, in a new channel. I'd like to say to the representative, Höglund, well, what the United States will respond to or not, you might have a lively discussion about that. I don't think they've seen the Progress Party in free dressage. When I met the US Secretary of State in June, her first question was, on the basis of Norway's active involvement in Somalia: Could Norway and the United States play a role together, in the critical situation there? If I had represented a progress party government, which is a total dissatisfaction, I would have to say, no, we can't do that anymore, because we've cut all those budget lines. We cannot follow up on Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro, in the critical situation in Kosovo now because we have cut support for the Balkans by 70-80 pst. It would have been noticed. Then the representative Höglund did not respond to what information has led him to cut, escape, support for Palestinian refugees – from 150 million. NOK 15 million. kr. Our attitude is not static, says Höglund. No, maybe we'll increase to next year? But it gives a pretty dramatic effect for very vulnerable people to do that kind of cut. And again, to the answer that this is a cut that the refugees can meet by exporting more to Norway, I have to say – Höglund asked for respect for the position of the Progress Party – that I do not respect this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1388	Let me begin by commenting on Dagfinn's characterization of the Highbridge to the defense of others for their budget. I still want to say that I mean some articles – not necessarily Dagfinn's articles – and considerations here have been marked by moralism. One says in a way that the relative truth is where the government was, and everyone else's suggestion is kind of a disaster, or, to use the unparliamentary expression of the representative Anette Triettebergstuen, we are "stealing" from someone. Then you could say that anything you don't do beyond that, and everything you give priority to other things, is the same degree of theft. I don't think it's a particularly ludicrous way of talking about other people's proposals. I also think you should go in and look at what we're actually doing. Yes, in some areas we are reducing in relation to what the Government has proposed. We're reducing by going into a lot of posts for what's the year's budget. So characterizing it as a disaster means that this year's budget is a disaster. The second thing we do is we do, for example. to say that we agree with both the development minister Erik Solheim and Dagfinn Høybräten said about Africa. That's why we have exactly the same appropriation as the Government and the Christian People's Party to Africa, because we know that the countries of Africa are not the first to get help by now helping to build up the trade barriers. They need to get help to raise their economy, so that in the next round they can actually do it. So there are stages and degrees in how we have set up our alternative budget. So to the Foreign Minister's answer to Dagfinn Høybräten on the question of what is being informed about. I think the Foreign Minister must decide whether it is the same kind of question, or whether it is the same matter, that letter of 1 November. It has come after previous enquiries, and after the previous discussion. That means it can't be the same thing. That it is the same type, I ask again about. When will there be another type of enquiry, if the situation is such that there are questions about sending special forces, and sending them to South Afghanistan? When will there be a new situation to inform the Storting again? The Minister of Foreign Affairs is now saying that he was informing in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. I hadn't said that, so far, when I asked this question, because after all, it's not allowed to talk about what we're doing in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. But the reason I have asked this written question is that the public debate has obscured what has been said to us in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It has put the opposition parties in an incredibly difficult situation. We know that there has been a letter, because we forced an answer in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. But what the government has done in public is pretending that the letter doesn't exist. It's almost impossible to relate to. Then it's good that we got away from the veil and got it open. I hope the government learns from this, because it's an unsustainable situation to put us in the opposition in – inform us about something, and then in the public afterwards pretend that it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1402	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1418	The goal of Norwegian Svalbard policy is firm, as confirmed here in Stortinget in connection with St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000. It involves consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, based on the Svalbard Treaty, peace and stability in the area and the preservation of the unique wilderness nature of Svalbard. It is also an objective to maintain Norwegian communities on the island group. The objectives of Svalbard policy are part of the whole of the entire Northern Region policy of the Government. Svalbard has been, and will be a central part of our northern regions. A sustained bet on Svalbard is in line with this. As indicated in the budget statement, there is a broad consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the proposed Svalbard budget. However, at one point there is disagreement, and it is related to the change in the tax rate on Svalbard. The Longyearbyen local government pointed early to the unfortunate consequences of the tax change, and this resulted in a working group that now assesses the tax system of Svalbard. In order to avoid a negative effect, as pointed out by the Local Government, especially for families with children, the Government has proposed two temporary tax measures for Svalbard while the investigation is under way, namely a separate deduction from the tax and a separate Svalbard supplement to child welfare. This is supported by the majority on Stortinget. It appears from the setting. I notice that the Right and Left, who were very well placed in the government that proposed the said tax increase on Svalbard, now, along with the Advance Party, are going in to remove the tax increase. So what was right in the past, when they were in government and had the Minister of Finance, now means the Right, along with the Left, who was in the same government, is completely wrong. I must allow myself to say that this reminds me a little of a bumper bucket and is quite striking. In addition, the Committee has noted that the Svalbard school from 2007 is being transferred to the Local Government in line with the assumption. The annual budgets must ensure that the costs of operating the school are compensated by transfers to the Local Government. The area of education and research is one of the pillars of the Norwegian presence at Svalbard. With the Research Park, we have facilitated the further development of this field. Svalbard can become a unique venue for international cooperation in education and research in the north. If we are to succeed, we must focus on quality and good coordination between research and development environments. UNIS, which is the University of Svalbard, must be given the opportunity to develop further professionally. Together with the New Ålesund research community, UNIS will be at the heart of a strong knowledge and research environment on polar issues. The international polar year 2007-08 is an exciting opportunity, which will provide a great boost to polar research. It is positive that Norway is strongly involved in this, and that 80 million are granted. kr for this purpose next year. Although education and research are growing — and have been over several years — in Svalbard, other industries are still crucial for the Norwegian presence. Travel life has become important on Svalbard. Although there was a small decrease in the number of guest days between 2004 and 2005, the tourism industry contributes to important value creation up there. But it's challenging to do travel life activities on Svalbard. The vulnerable environment must be safeguarded and travel life activities on the island group must therefore be adapted to the environment. Together with knowledge and travel life, as mentioned, the activities of the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS are still crucial to maintaining the Norwegian community at Svalbard. However, the problems that Great Norwegians have been through after the fire in Svea North Mining have been a great burden to the company. The Committee has noted that the company has come to the conclusion, on an independent basis, that it is fit for resumption. I assume that the owner follows developments in the company carefully, especially considering what becomes the final consequences of the insurance settlement relating to the fire in Svea. This was my comments associated with the option. By doing so, I present the Committee's recommendation to the 2007 Svalbard budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1446	I won't extend this debate very much. We've been on for hours. Since the President-in-Office made a visit to the tax system, I would like to show that it appeared quite clearly to us in addition to the winter and spring that the effect of the tax change that occurred in the 2006 budget was different from what we could imagine. We already recognised this in the review of the revised budget before the summer, when we called for this correction. We've thought that it's easier to go back to the original tax rate than to implement a bureaucratic system of special deductions, as proposed by the majority. I would like to acknowledge that we have turned this case around. But there's nothing new, it's been known since in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1455	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1471	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1487	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes – the president will refer to the process last year, and suggests that the Left Party in this debate will have a speaking time of 10 minutes – not 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1498	Initially, I will be allowed to thank the Committee for the work that has been done and which has now been put into the committee's position in relation to the budget that we are now discussing. There is also reason to note the efforts of all parties in fact to try to agree where it is politically possible to come up with agreed proposals and comments. This clearly shows that efforts are actually being made to be able to stand together instead of using every opportunity to point out the smallest degree of disagreement. I dare to say that the budget adopted here today is one of the budgets which has the greatest impact on the lives of individuals. It is also one of the budgets to which it normally attaches itself the most debate. It is a comprehensive approach by the Committee, with many proposals and comments in a variety of areas. This shows that a real desire to improve the health of the country’s citizens. However, there is no concealment that significant policy lines are also emerging. It should just be lacking – that's why we have political parties and different political views. The individual parties will present their own budgets and comments, and the undersigned will therefore concentrate on what is the budget of the Progress Party. I would first like to stress that there is an incredible amount of good work being done in the Norwegian health service. There's never been any more patients before. Let's get it fixed once and for all. In some debates, you can get the impression — and even after I have made some comments myself — that what is happening in the healthcare system is just wrong. That's not the case. That's all, most of it's good. But despite this, there are still major health challenges. This applies not only to the funding side, but we must also take on board that there are significant problems and challenges associated with the organisation of the healthcare system. One of the main challenges we face is how we can achieve a better interaction between the community health service and the specialist health service. There's something that doesn't work, and we see the numbers' clear speech, when there's a number of pre-treated patients in the country's hospital waiting for an offer in the home municipality. We need to find a solution to this, all the time a day's stay in a hospital is one of the most expensive in terms of care level, because that's exactly what you're talking about when a patient is in hospital. We have today something we call the Leon principle, i.e. individual treatment at the lowest effective level of care. That's why it's important that we have a lot of focus on this. The Progress Party is looking forward to us starting work on the care notification and the suggestions contained in it, so that we can look at the interaction issue, and not least make the municipalities better able to accept the patients that the hospital believes have been treated. Nor should we stick under the chair that some municipalities say that the patients they receive are not finished. Here we have to figure out a solution. Health undertakings are required to balance their balance by the end of 2006. The only exception is Health Mid-Norway, which has a deferral of 350 million. kr in its balance sheet requirement for one year – then for reasons such as: in the major challenges associated with the development of the St. Olav Hospital. However, it appears that regional health enterprises are heading towards a deficit at the end of 2006 above NOK 1 billion, if the figures just quoted are correct. I expect this from the Council of State to come up with its statement, and to give an explanation of the big gap between the balance sheet requirement for the current year and the actual figures. We also know that the heads of regional health enterprises have been called to a meeting with the Council of State. We look forward to the results that come out of it, and the state council at the corporate meeting gets the signals that are given. The large deficits also clearly show that the government's draft budget for the specialist health service is not enough to deal with the waiting lists, and the queues are going to increase. Furthermore, there is every reason to believe that we are entering a new alarming year for health businesses – with new proposals for dismissals, less patient treatment, summer-bound and/or holiday-bound food departments, reduced emergency preparedness and a functional breakdown that is financially justified, not justified on health grounds. One could get the impression of hearing the Minister of Finance's speech in Stortingen at the time of the submission of the State budget, that the Government provided a historic uplift for the hospitals. It was therefore with great disappointment and not least amazement a read content of the health budget itself and very quickly so that health was the great loser in the government's budgetary work. And the government's proposals for the health budget have not been received very well either. We receive daily reports of concern, and we see daily surveys both in the local and national media of threatened treatment services, threats of closures, number of days of operation, which one estimates to reduce from five to four, and reduced capacity in training and rehabilitation. All of this is creating a great uncertainty in the population about getting help when you need it, or if you don't get it, regardless of where you live and not least the size of your wallet. The appropriations allocated to regional health enterprises are too small to meet the needs of health services in society without the waiting lists, and thus also waiting time, increasing more than they already seem to be. It's not enough to add up to a race that says we're going to have about the same level of number of treated patients next year as it seems you got at the end of the third tertiary, as it's written in the budget. In fact, one sees that there are already cows and that the need for healthcare is increasing – the population is ageing, and we get more people who need treatment. Furthermore, we should not undermine the fact that we are still receiving new treatment methods. It will also increase the pressure on specialist healthcare with demands for treatment. This happens at a time when this government has had the largest economic space that some Norwegian government has had. The Progress Party proposes several measures in its alternative budget to meet the challenges we are now facing in the health sector. The Progress Party proposes that €1.5 billion more should be allocated in basic appropriations to health businesses and that the input-driven part of funding be re-established at 60 pst. This could result in a real growth in patient treatment next year, so that queues can be further reduced, sick leave can be significantly reduced, and health care businesses will be given the opportunity to change from what is reasonable health policy, not just in the light of a stressed economic situation. It is now important to calm down so that the population is confident that the local hospital will exist in the future, and that one is safe treatment regardless of place of residence and economic situation. In this context, there is reason to mention the requirement of, inter alia, friends of local hospitals, who have also demanded NOK 1.5 billion more for hospitals next year. The promotion party is concerned that only more money is not enough for health businesses, at least not without looking at the very organisation of this sector. In Norway, we spend a lot of money on health. We're most likely to have the highest medical coverage per. resident in an OECD country. But our organization and our long-term country are also precious. The Progress Party believes that it is now time to re-evaluate the model we have, with five health regions that are closest to managing at their discretion through the varying policies that are pursued at the time of conclusion of agreements with health care actors other than those that you actually own. In this context, we can mention private drug institutions, rehabilitation institutions, private non-profit and private commercial hospitals that are not allowed to fill up their facilities and are not allowed to enter into an agreement with any of the regional health businesses. Furthermore, there is reason to focus attention on the fact that a significant number of initial investments are planned in its own region, very often without deterring the possibility of a longer-term availability of capacity in the neighbouring region. The Progress Party, together with the Right, proposes in the budget position that we already choose to merge Health East and Health South. This could have a number of positive effects, both in terms of patient treatment and not least in terms of efficiency gains. The Progress Party also proposes that the Government pursue a work aimed at removing all regional health businesses, so that Health-Norway can be brought together into one kingdom, for the benefit of patients. It is only in this way that the free choice of hospitals can work. In this context, it is important that the money is paid directly to the institution, contract specialist or other health professionals responsible for the treatment itself. The Progress Party also proposes in its alternative budget to reduce the debt of regional health businesses by DKK 2 billion. This is a debt that has been restated to the State through investments made. The background to this proposal is the long-term deficits of regional health enterprises that have flowed from liquidity. Over time, there is a great need to re-establish liquidity in order to meet future challenges and investments. The Soria Moria Declaration reads that no local hospital is to be closed. The government has also announced that it will ensure emergency preparedness and food supply. The problem that has arisen, however, is that the content of local hospitals has not been taken into account. This is becoming a problem. Once one has addressed this issue in the past, one has been told that it would come back to this in the context of the national health plan. The national health plan has now been submitted in the context of the budget. I have to be allowed to say that in this area the problem is just as unresolved. The only initiative the Government takes there is that it will now set up a sample to make a recommendation on the matter. This must be said to be a solid stomach area for a government that has gone so high on the ground in the case of local hospitals. We're likely to experience multiple torch trains following threats of decommissioning and changing functions in the time that's coming. Unfortunately, there is still a great deal of uncertainty in the districts about hospitals and about what conditions you have to work under even in the time that comes. This could lead to major problems related to recruitment, sick leave and changing offers to patients. If there's one thing that local hospitals really need, there's stability and a secure framework for recruiting the professionals you need. This is not clear. That's why I see big problems in the time that's coming. Finally, I will also be allowed to refer to another chapter of the Soria Moria Declaration. It concerns excesses in the health care system. The Soria Moria statement says it's reading that you want to reduce the excess and keep these low. This is in stark contrast to what the Government itself is doing in this draft budget. Here, there's an increase in the health care costs of 160 million. SEK – 160 million. kr! The proportions of health care have now become so large that some people actually have to choose – I kept saying – whether they want food or medicine. In conclusion – I see that my speaking time is soon over – I will be allowed to present the following related to the proposals themselves: The Progress Party wants to draw proposal No. 14, which refers to cholinesterase inhibitors, i.e. problems with the prescription. That's what we want to draw because there's already some signals about how to organise this in the future. Furthermore, we want to reword proposal No. 9, on the youth campaign ‘Relax, now’, to a transmission proposal, as we do not want this to be voted down in the Chamber. During the interpellation debates we have had, the Council of State has also confirmed that it is important that this goes on. With this, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1553	The President has registered the changes to which the representative referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1558	After the representative Nesvik stated that most things are good in the Norwegian health care system, I stunned – and am stunning even more now – when I read the comments and suggestions of the Progress Party. At one point they are in favour of a total transformation or revolution of the Norwegian health system, i.e. that the current health-care system is to be replaced by a nationwide hospital bureaucracy, where the money is to accompany the individual patient. So you have to be able to get a nationwide shopping of healthcare. I would like to ask the representative Nesvik if he has any idea of how many thousands of annual works are needed in this central bureaucracy to handle all invoices, all bills and all the checks to be carried out. Does he have any idea what this will mean for our ability to maintain a nationwide hospital structure, with local hospitals in all parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1565	Actually, I do. Our system is to replace today's municipal health companies, which are already built up as a bureaucracy – a system where we see the patient being harmed. Our system will be compensated for this. This should be made easier: the money follows the individual user – based on the tariffs available – directly to the hospital or the private operator who performs, for example. operations. So the money has to go directly to you. I don't see the need to become anything more bureaucratic than what we already have through regional health companies. So we can get a saving, we don't have to spend a lot of money on administration, which we actually do today. In addition, I would also like to point out that even in the department, you already have an ownership department attached to the hospitals, so you can use the people who are already there and play on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1572	The party of progress often calls itself the defender of the little man. In the health care system, the little man is often the chronicler, the heavy rubric, or the heavy psychiatric patient with complex diagnosis and unpredictable treatment. Everyone, except the Advance Party, seems to agree that 60 pst. In particular, the ISF share will affect these patients, as will many local hospitals. There was also some reason why former health minister Gabrielsen put the ISF share back to 40 pst. Question 1: Why does the Progress Party again believe that everyone else is wrong, while they are always right? Question 2: Nesvik's party colleague Fredriksen says to South Varanger Avis on 25 November that the doctors think it's great with long cows, because then they have enough work to do. Does Nesvik support this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1581	First of all, I have said that the whole point of having an up-to-date healthcare system is that as many patients as possible should be treated and that the queues thus become shorter. That's what's meant to be. Regarding the first question, relating to the ISF bit, I have been in contact with a number of hospitals about this issue. There are more and more sick people who are actually asking for an increase in the ISF share, as they can plan for better. It goes on the activity at the hospital, and so you secure that piece. It turns out that when patients choose hospitals themselves, they very often choose the nearest hospital, you have faith in it. So I don't share the concern of the representative of Thorkildsen. But I understand her concern well, as she herself is now evading her own government budget and the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration in terms of prostheses in the healthcare system. They say you want more people to be treated, while in this budget you say you should try to maintain about the same level as last year. This is contrary to the Soria Moria declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1590	The budget position reads that the Progress Party is putting DKK 2 billion into new designated positions in the municipal health service pending a new funding scheme for the municipal health service, which they are planning to introduce. NOK 2 billion in new ear-marked positions, that's approx. 5 000 posts. My question is: How does the Progress Party intend to acquire 5,000 new positions in the municipal health service when we know that there are many vacancies both in the nursing home and in the community health service around it? Nor does the Party propose to strengthen the Chapter on Nursing Training or Auxiliary Nursing Training. So how are you going to get 5,000 new annual works for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1595	First of all, I would like to thank you for this question, because it shows that the government parties do not intend to follow up their own promise of 10,000 new annual works. Here you show a defensive attitude. The amount proposed by the Progress Party in the context of the Municipal Budget must be seen in the context of studies, including: in the Norwegian Nursing Association, on how many there are who want to make more use of their posts in order to make greater efforts. The study, to which reference has been made in the past, shows an enormous potential; in fact, up to several thousand annual works. In this context, it is important that the money is in place so that municipalities can implement their recruitment plans and ensure that staff can be increased. These annual works shall be earmarked for the care of the elderly. So we're serious, we need to increase staffing in the elderly sector. We're not just talking about what we're doing. That is why we are promoting proposals for financial measures, so that the possibilities lie with the municipality. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1604	I hope that today we can have a debate that is unusual, in that we who have become government parties now, and who could certainly be critical enough for the health care system in the last period, do not fall into the trap of believing that now everything is good in the Norwegian health system. I also hope that those who were government parties in the previous period, and who then had the Progress Party as a partner for three out of four years, in three out of four budgets, will not go into the trap of believing that everything was good in the last period and now believe that everything is going terribly wrong. I would like us to have an honest debate in favour of patients and Health-Norway, to present the constructive work that the Health Committee has now done in the budget setting – as Mr Nesvik also mentioned, but not so much in his contribution – where we have gone through the situation critically to bring about both weaknesses and problems and to point out positive results and opportunities. We in the Workers' Party, and I think I can also say we in the government parties, consider it important to continue to be critical also in position. Everyone who in this debate intends to beat us in the head that we haven't solved it and that it still lacks money to a lot of different things after a year of red-green government – and before eight years of Bondevik I- and Bondevik II-government – they have to do it, but such a common political problem doesn't benefit patients very much. What brings us further to the work of a good Norwegian health care system is to build a common long-term understanding of problems and shortcomings, a common position on sustainable efforts that could continue across any changing governments. Examples of sustainable health interventions that allow the health service to plan ahead are the psychiatry plan, which has been almost met in budgetary terms in the coming financial year, that is the first cancer plan, and that is the first elderly plan. Through those plans, different governments and sizes have been involved and have made significant improvements for patients and caregivers. We can be satisfied with that, but we're not satisfied. This is why the Government has now developed a new national cancer strategy for, among others. to improve the treatment of cancers that have not received enough attention to now, such as prostate cancer, which is the type of cancer in men that affects most people in this country per year. years. This is why the Government has also provided a care report – where we have received many good input, including: from the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties – to which we come back in January to February. In the same critical spirit, we are also about to create new initiatives where we see shortcomings and challenges. In particular, this concerns work on a broad escalation plan for drug treatment, i.e. to improve care for drug users and the prevention of drug use. Many might say that we could have stepped up even more in 2007, had an even clearer bet when we're going to make an escalating plan. We're not going to spend time in the defensive position in that number. We just want to say that we're adding $90 million. kr on the previous government's budget last year, and we have, together with the Christian People's Party, placed 20 million. kr extra in relation to the government budget this year, so that there is an increase of 70 million. kr in year. When the escalation plan comes, we are sure that this will be one of the main tasks of the next budgets beyond the period. The debates of the last few days here in the United Kingdom, Monday evening and yesterday, indicate that many here in the Committee and in the United Kingdom will be involved in such an effort in the future. Based on the same willingness to be critical also in position, we are pleased that several parties are now focusing on rehabilitation, on getting too many swing door spaces, on too many being disabled, and on too many having to live with a lot of trouble because the rehabilitation after treatment is too poor. A joint committee puts a finger on this in the budget setting. We may have our disputes about the lawfulness of the right to rehabilitation, but I don't think we should spend a lot of time on it. As you know, the Minister of Health has stated that this is a legal right under the Patient Rights Act, and then it becomes like many other health and care rights – that if it is a legal patient’s right, this does not mean that everyone automatically gets the good offer they should have, in a timely manner. This must be ensured through a better development of the offer, through an increase in capacity, through regulation, through letters of allocation to health businesses, through cooperation with the volunteer organisations that create offers, etc. In order to plan and implement a strong and lasting improvement in rehabilitation, the Government shall establish a national strategy to implement steps forward in future budgets. We heard criticism last day that this national strategy would be an action plan rather than an action plan. For me, the most important thing is not the name of it, but that something happens, that the result will be a lasting joint effort, and that it will not be that when politicians do not know what to do – do not have concrete proposals – they will require an action plan, a strategy or even a strategy plan. What is important is that there is no inflation in the major plans, but that we create them in areas that obviously require large and lasting efforts, such as rehabilitation and as a strengthening of care for drug users. A specific point that the Committee has given great attention to now is organ donation. It's heartbreaking to see that an average of 40 people die per. in Norway, due to a lack of organ donation, and to the fact that these could have been helped if the system had worked better. Since the High Council in 2002, the Commissioner for Health has said that we need to put in place special funds to ensure that the system of 28 donor hospitals, 28 donor doctors, etc. is working. Amongst the approx. 400 cases per year. in years where a donation could be made, 76 donations were made last year. There are many reasons for this, but if we get into a 130-140 donation, it's estimated that the need could be met. To succeed here, the 28 donor doctors and the 28 hospitals need to get free time to work on this. Training is needed for nurses and others to do the difficult job and to be ready in a short time to conduct difficult conversations with relatives in very difficult situations. At all, more funds are needed to build up the system at the 28 donor hospitals. The additional costs are calculated for approx. NOK 75 000 per year. donation beyond what is now available. We've adjusted it to 80 000 kroner, because it's been a while since the calculations were made, and multiplied by 130, and so we've been in the committee, along with the Right – i.e. the government parties along with the Right – set of 10.4 million. to build these functions at donor hospitals in 2007. In addition, we're going to increase the funding for the Foundation's Organ Donation, which is doing an important job, by 0.5 million. kr, and to the Norwegian organ donation resource group of 0,6 mill. kr. In addition, the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, which performs the organ transplants themselves, receives its so-called DRG rate for this. But according to the knowledge we now have, the main challenge is how to work in the 28 donor hospitals to obtain donations. That's why this is where we put the pressure in 2007. Then we need to follow developments closely and see if there is sufficient progress – and decline in the queues – or if even more new instruments are needed in the future. Another important point on which the Committee has put in focus concerns cooperation between hospitals in the Oslo area. Now we have, among other things, the situation that the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital is a special hospital for Health South, while 65 pst. of the patients here come from Health East and another 15 pst. from other health regions. Because Ullevål Hospital and the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital are managed by each of their health regions, it has proved difficult to implement the necessary professional cooperation and joint strengthening of competences and capacity. This applies in areas such as cancer treatment, skin treatment, neurosurgery, cardiovascular disease, food supply, etc. We are aware that the professional communities agree on cooperation solutions that have been worked with for a long time at these hospitals, but there are clarifications between Health East and Health South. I would also like to add that not only do these disciplines apply, but there is also a danger that health regions, if they do not cooperate better, can build up overcapacity in the capital area because they each set their own plan for the development and development of the offer, without thinking entirely across the regional borders. We are therefore asking the Minister of Health and the Ministry to follow this up in the budgetary position, in order to establish better cooperation solutions between the two regions. We are pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee are also looking at this issue. We want it to work with better coordination in the capital area. We want a thorough and broad approach to this matter, and are therefore pleased that the Progress Party has now announced that they will submit their proposal at this point for further consideration instead of getting it up to vote. The most important challenge in terms of constructive cooperation within the Health Committee for the benefit of patients and health care is to address the hospital economy, or the health business. For many years, there has been great concern and focus on problems and crises in Health-Norway during the budgetary procedure both before Christmas and in the context of the revised budget in the summer. It is almost expected that there will be large appropriations from the Stortinget on top of the proposals of the various governments. It has, whether we like it or not, become so that many in Health-Norway have had to relate to the fact that this turmoil has paid off. Of course, much of the criticism has been justified, but in the years of noise it may have been difficult to distinguish between legitimate criticism and what could be called crisis maximisation. The new thing is that we have a majority government and a large majority that are determined to create predictability and long-termity in the health and hospital economy. It's worth your while to run well. It shall be profitable to plan and improve resource use on the basis of agreed frameworks. Many hospitals and other parts of health care businesses have for a long time been driving such good governance and trying to achieve balance. For example, in Health South, we see that the Hospital Telemark, Ringerijke local hospital, etc. has demonstrated the ability to convert and to create a budgetary balance while at the same time taking good care of their patients. They and other good local hospitals show that good treatment, good competence and ability to make a proper diagnosis at the right level are also the best resource use, because it avoids the fact that too many patients are sent from farms to expensive studies and expensive stays in the central hospitals. Government parties will not shut down any local hospitals, as Stortinget knows, but develop them further. The government has therefore reduced a rapid selection. It's not a slowdown that Nesvik was in, it's supposed to be done by March 1st, so we're quick to make concrete recommendations. The selection shall include, inter alia: look at how we can add new functions to local hospitals. Claims about the collapse of local hospitals, made by various activists who operate well-known crisis maximisation during the year’s budgetary process, seem to be poor reprisals by people who refuse to see light in the tunnel. As I said, it has been difficult to distinguish between those hospitals that have problems controlling the economy, but are trying, and that have real reasons why they don't get it yet, and those that have been able to hide behind to some bad excuses. The reason is that we've had four main problems: We have had to deal with growing pension costs for which there has been no coverage.We have had to deal with the imbalance between health companies, where Health Mid-Norway and Health West have had less than they should.We have had a weak investment regime, where we have actually had coverage only to maintain and maintain 60 pst. until the last Bondevik government in the 2006 budget proposed to reduce the price of the 60 pst. until 40 p.m., we realised that the unit price was too much of the funding, and that it was therefore difficult to plan the economy. These four problems are now cleared up, i.e. that the pension costs have been allocated for the 2007 budget for a budget of DKK 1 billion, and the distortion has been corrected as a matter of urgency – we will continue to see if there can be anything more there. There is also a run up to 2010 to get a proper investment regime in place, which on average will cost NOK 1 billion more per year. years in hospital investment, and 80 pst. it shall be possible to maintain and maintain the building mass and equipment. And as I said, an ISF share is 40 pst. in place, making it easier to plan more stable. So now it's not so easy to blame for external reasons if you don't get to the management of hospitals and health companies. I am pleased that most of the parties in the Health Committee – with one exception – are involved in thinking and granting along that path to create a predictable framework. It is the main task of the period to be able to build a good, long-term, predictable hospital economy. When we know that since the mid-1990s we've been in Norway from lying in the middle of Europe to now at the top – it's probably just Liechtenstein that's ahead of us in the case of hospital buildings – we have a good starting point. If we want to create the necessary security here with regard to the hospital economy, it also means new security for patients and for their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1669	Harald T. Nesvik has asked for the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1672	It's to clarify a misunderstanding. The undersigned has not transmitted the proposal to merge Health East and Health South. The proposal we sent was what goes on in the youth campaign "Really now", because there were signals. The proposal to join Health East and Health South stands firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1677	Then we go over to the cord change after Jan Bøhler's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1680	This summer, Boehler went out into the papers and announced that there were going to be several billion in the rise to the hospitals. He urged the Prime Minister not to be greedy of the oil crowns. He expressed a well-founded fear that the Workers' Party would lose more voters to the Advance Party. ‘There are elections in 2007’ said Bøhler. ‘My concern is that we torture ourselves so much in relation to the rule of action that we lose the confidence of voters in our welfare promises.’ That's wise words. But it was not the patient’s need for treatment and rehabilitation that caused this piety. There was the fear of losing voters at the municipal elections in 2007. Now we see that hospitals actually don't get any big billion promises. And as long as the capacity of drugs and psychiatry is to be increased, the capacity spent on other patient groups will be further reduced. I then ask, is Jan Bøhler satisfied with the lack of effort especially in relation to those with somatic disorders, chroniclers and the elderly? Or does he see the same thing as us, that this patient group has good reason to feel failed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1692	As I said, it's not like we in the government parties are satisfied with everything. We are critical and want to improve things, which I used a lot of my post to mention. However, with regard to the increase in the hospital framework for the next year of SEK 2.2 billion – including the different parts – plus the announcement of another DKK 1 billion in hospital investment, which is escalating from 2008, it is a positive development and it is a predictable development. We see, as I said in my post, also a great danger by inflating this at too high a rate, so that you can't create a stable development in the services. So we're critical, but satisfied with the first steps the Government has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1699	There were many interesting invitations in the representative of Bohemian Post, which I will come back to later. But I have a question that goes on the financial framework for health businesses. The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘... that the entire health business investment regime needs to be reviewed with a view to finding good development/modernisation solutions without affecting patient provision. Depreciation shall be based on the real value of the building stock and be in line with the general provisions of the Accounting Act.» At the request of the Right Group of the Financial Committee, the Ministry of Finance has blackened that following up the real value means $8 billion. The budget proposal says to escalate to NOK 1 billion over the four-year period. So there's a difference of $7 billion compared to what is promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. What is the basis for achieving other results after a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1709	As for how the investment regime is going to develop in the coming years, we can probably get other and larger dimensions in addition to 2010, too, but in the first phase, we are pleased that the Government has taken this seriously and estimated that it could take care of 80 pst. of the hospitals and equipment to cost NOK 1 billion in this round. The development that we have in this area as to how much hospitals plan investments, etc., we intend to take seriously in the future, and I hope we can get back to the numbers of wages mentioned, and that discussion, later on in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1716	I would like to point out what the representative of Bøhler is talking about with regard to the health care operations. As we know, there's a lot of commitment around the country from people who care about how it goes with their hospitals. When the representative spoke about these, I felt that he was rather demeaning, he said something about those who are always crisis-Maximizing, in a familiar style. Then my question to Bøhler is: Does Meiner representative Bøhler say that local health wards cannot give constructive arguments in the most important debate for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1721	Well, I said we're aware that this is very legitimate criticism. We take local hospitals seriously, and we see that local hospitals have an important function in the Norwegian healthcare system that should be stepped up. I distanced myself from a use of words from some actionists who believed that the local hospitals were raging. It was that use of words, that form of crisis maximisation, that I brought up. Not in any way will I distance myself from the work done to preserve the local hospitals. That's exactly why we're taking this seriously. There is also active work in relation to the places where cuts have been mentioned. I take those who work to defend their local hospitals, seriously, but I take away concepts such as the "racing of the local hospitals".
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1730	First, two comments relating to the two previous submissions. I noticed that the representative Nesvik put a great deal of emphasis on the health system issue related to the breakdown of five regional health businesses, and I welcome the fact that the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that that structure is not appropriate in terms of the best possible use of the total resources. This means that we may gradually be a step closer to a majority in the Grand Duchy in order to do something about the very basic structure of the organisation of the specialist health service. So to the representative, Bøhler, who also had a constructive post, and an interesting post on a part of the same issue, which is related to the proposal that the Progress Party and the Right have jointly promoted, to merge Health East and Health South. It's obvious that it's that part of the regional system that most eye-catchingly shouts at an audit, because it's so obvious that it's an inappropriate cut-off. To Mr Bøhler's wish for the proposal to be converted into a transmission proposal, I would like to say that I have an open view of it in itself, but it requires that we get clear signals during the debate that the Government is interested in following up this and possibly returning to an assessment of this in the context of the revised national budget. In this case, it would be appropriate for us to turn it into a transmission proposal. When we are affected by disease, it is essential that we receive rapid health care and that this health care is of high quality. Today, too many patients experience a long waiting period and poor health care organisation. In our own alternative budget proposal, we have increased the appropriations for health and care by 325 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Together with the proposal for a more effective organisation of healthcare, the Right’s budget provides for some 20,000 patients to be treated more than would be possible with the Government’s draft budget. In that case, this will help patients get faster and better health care than they would otherwise have. The right priority is first and foremost rehabilitation in its alternative budget proposal, with a total of 500 million. kr for a stake in this area. Rehabilitation is about giving people suffering from disease or injury an opportunity to return to active working life or active participation in other social life. Today, a lot of people feel that they are not getting needed help for rehabilitation, and that they are therefore becoming dependent on the help of others and on social security benefits that they could otherwise have done without. Our commitment to rehabilitation is an investment in increased quality of life and increased self-driving for many people. At the same time, this effort provides a basis for reduced costs of sick pay and disability benefits. It will therefore also be a good social economy. Within the 500 million allocation. kr suggests to the right to set off 350 million. kr to the grant scheme to improve the capacity of the healthcare business offer. The purpose of such allocation is to strengthen the capacity of healthcare undertakings’ own offerings and to ensure that the available capacity of private training institutions can be better exploited. In the draft budget, the Ministry states that there is a lack of knowledge base in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. This was also the unique feedback from patient organisations during the consultation to the budget. So the right-hand side is suggesting a 100 million. to research to provide a better basis for assessing the impact of different actions in this area. It will contribute to a better treatment provision for patients. The remaining 50 million. Dr within the rehabilitation effort is proposed for work-oriented measures for the mentally ill. This will help to reduce the significant increase in sick leave among people with mental health problems. It is unsustainable that patients wait a long time for help, while at the same time there is free capacity of private providers. In particular, it is alarming that mentally ill children and young people wait more than three months on average for the necessary treatment.We are therefore in favour of health care companies purchasing more healthcare from private hospitals and specialists, so that patients can use these services for the benefit of the public. It's set at a total of 192.4 million. kr for the purchase of healthcare from private operators in addition to what the Government proposes. In particular, this will contribute to faster health care for children and young people in need of mental health protection and for patients in need of orthopaedic surgery, i.e. in all, the older population. Within the framework of the rehabilitation effort, it is provided for the purchase of several places in private training institutions. From the right, we're disappointed that the government is doing the least for those who need it the most. There is good evidence that there are failures at all stages of drug treatment and mental health protection. Despite this, the Government proposes to step down efforts in these areas in relation to the budgets submitted by the Minister of Health, Ansgar Gabrielsen, for 2005 and 2006. Therefore, the Right proposes to increase the appropriations for mental health protection by a total of 110 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. Within this framework, we propose to strengthen measures for children of parents with drug problems or mental illness. Right goes in to double the Government’s proposal for drug treatment, and facilitates the provision of such treatment to more people. The right considers that there is a need for strong efforts to improve the quality of care services, including care for the elderly. While the government just wants to set aside $25 million. NOK to this, put the right at 125 million. for increased competence, for more research on dementia-related diseases and for better care at the end of life. With the alternative budget of the Right, more skilled staff will be trained, more specialised doctors in geriatry, and more will be offered further education. This will help to strengthen recruitment, while at the same time strengthening the quality of individual supply. Through increased research on dementia, we can contribute to the development of an effective curative treatment that will lead to a significantly better quality of life for patients and their relatives. At the same time, this may be essential in order to reduce the need for care services and, in particular, for the development of healthcare facilities in the future. Right goes to increase the grant of palliative treatment in municipalities, so that more people can get a decent care offer at the end of their lives. Better treatment needs to be provided for those who want to spend the very last part of their lives in their own homes. The right believes that waiting times are still too long for many patients. That is why, as mentioned above, we are proposing to increase the funding for healthcare by 325 million. kr. This, together with better coordination of support functions in the capital area, facilitates an increase in the number of treated patients by around 20,000. The government boasts that it has made a historic contribution to the health business economy. But how many more patients will be treated next year with the Government's arrangements in relation to the level of activity of the year? As I read the government's budget proposal, you add up to the status quo, i.e. the defensive attitude to keep the same level of patient treatment to the next year as we have in the current year, 2006. Then there's the question that I raised in the line change with Jan Bøhler. There is no doubt that the Soria Moria Declaration provides for full coverage of depreciation costs, when it is said to cover the ‘real value’. So the government has come to realize after a year that it was unrealistic, and instead has settled on 80 pst. of the real value. If I have understood correctly, it is done on the same grounds as the former Minister of Health used, but as at that time was rejected with contempt by the present government parties as a completely useless proposal. Then it must be interesting to explain how, after one year, health companies can cope with $7 billion less than they thought when they wrote the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1767	I must say that I think it was a very positive contribution from the representative. It's obvious that rehabilitation is one of the areas of interest to the Right. That's great. I find it strange that the Right then, together with the Left, has isolated themselves from the rest of the Committee by saying that they do not want us to have a national centre of competence for vocational rehabilitation, a centre that can also show the best results in getting people back to work. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1774	I appreciate getting a question that's so far down on the basic plane at the level of detail, because I assume that that means that we're relatively close to agreeing on the more general perspectives, and that's very positive in the case. I have no other answer to that than that in the Committee's work we did not have a detailed discussion on this particular point, and that we did not find any reason either to take a position on such a detailed question through the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1779	It's actually an important question that Gunn Olsen asks, so I would recommend the representative's salary to take a closer look at exactly what is being offered there. In addition, it might be interesting to hear whether the representative has seen the inconsistency in part of what is in the budget setting. On some sides it says that you're going to give 500 million. kr more for rehabilitation, while elsewhere there are 350 million. kr. I want to ask about commercial, private health actors: does not see pay and the Right that increased privatisation leads to increased inequality, and that many private hospitals can lead to the draining of the best medical resources, disproportionately high wages, unfair conditions of competition for the public, and that there is a distortion in favor of the simplest diagnosis, while the heaviest patients risk waiting longer. Why can't we also invest the money on the public offer, instead of supporting offers that will also provide profits to the owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1786	To the first question, I don't think anyone has any problems figuring out what our alternative budget proposal is all about. If you read the table, and if you listened to the presentation I gave of the principals, I don't think it's a problem to figure out. As far as the second question is concerned, my answer is that our approach to this is pragmatic, which is, what do users do best to do? It is not a question of whether the provider has one or the other status, public or private. We consider that to be completely uninteresting. The basic premise is that it is the government that is obliged to provide the necessary health care for everyone in this country, regardless of their economy. Whether the government covers it by purchasing the service from a private institution or from a public institution is entirely subordinate. However, we have documented through quite extensive figures that if you buy training/rehabilitation from private providers, it costs approx. And if four patients get an offer instead of one patient, I assume that we can agree that that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1795	I will try to follow up No Marte Thorkildsen's question related to where the Right picks up the money. Is it not correctly understood that the Right calculates that a merger of Health East and Health South will lead to a saving of 400 million. And that it is this money that is in the budget and shows these investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1802	It is true that we have incorporated the impact of the implementation of the proposal we have promoted together with the Progress Party, but we have calculated the impact that is significantly lower than that in the reports and investigations on which it is based, for there it is estimated that there is a savings effect in the order of 900 million. kr annually. So the estimate we've calculated is a very conservative and conservative estimate of the savings involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1807	The cord shift is over. Before the representative withdraws from the Chair, the President will ask whether he will take up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1812	I take up the proposal and at the same time take on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left up proposal No. 3, which relates to the further distribution of the distribution of bias between health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1818	The representative of Inge Wohnning has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1821	I want to start where I started a year ago, with the welfare state. For the SV and for the Government, it is essential to ensure a strong and well-developed public sector, a welfare country that takes responsibility for all citizens, regardless of the size of the wallet. Knowing that we're not alone or being left to the family if things go wrong gives us enormous security. Paying by ability through the tax bill is incredibly much more fair and much cheaper than a solution based on private insurance. In addition, a large public sector has given Norwegian women financial autonomy and completely different options than women had only a few decades ago, as we also mainly based on family solutions where women took responsibility – unpaid. This remains a major challenge for many women in Norway, not least for those who provide older family members on a daily basis. That is why we want a further strengthening of the welfare state. The welfare state is our collective insurance, based on the idea of mutual solidarity and dependence. Today you need help, tomorrow it might as well be me. Or as my colleague Heikki Holmås tends to say, we are one team. An important promise on our part has been to turn the development from privatisation and ever-increasing differences between peoples into more community, more justice and greater social equality. We're about to come up with a strategy against social inequalities in health, we're coming up with an escalation plan in the field of drugs, and we're coming up with a message about education as a tool to balance social differences. I would like to draw up a chronicle that was in the newspaper yesterday, written by Professor of the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, Petter Kristensen. His message was that low social position and poor health are linked, and health is gradually better the higher the position. There is a link between social position and absenteeism risk. This is old news. Surprisingly, the connection is so strong. And he challenges us on the following: ‘Strengthening inequalities cannot be acceptable in a society where social equality and justice are a goal.’ Therefore, the reduction of social disparities must also be a central strategy for the prevention of sick leave. It might be interesting to hear the right-hand side's answer to this challenge. In Norway, we have been moving in the wrong direction for many years – we have had greater differences, we have become more materialistic, we have more privatisation, among others. in the health care system, and many experience being placed on the side of the community. That we have started on the big task of turning this around, not least by investing in local well-being, in care for the elderly, to exploit the capacity of the public and limit the commercial element, that we have invested in schools and kindergartens and a fairer tax system, has been important. 17–18 billion more is spent on the municipalities, instead of being distributed in tax letters – more on those who have the most from before. Health enterprises have been given increased resources, although the economy is obviously intrusive in many places, and many feel that they are being pushed into everyday life. Getting good and inclusive jobs within the healthcare system is absolutely necessary to prevent people from ending or not being able to do more. We're going to have to work to get rid of the involuntary part-time, to get more transparency about mistakes, for better HMS work, for employees to have more influence, and for better management. In the care of the elderly, we work for more people – we work for more skills, better management, more research and larger job breaks. The fact that older people should have an influence over more important questions than the choice of company logo is important to us. But they will not have to act as customers in a care market. We also want more art and culture and more valuable experiences into the everyday lives of the elderly. To feel wanted, to feel that you have something to contribute, that someone needs you and cares about you, can perform miracles, even for human health. In many places, lonely elderly people feel forgotten and parked. Building nursing homes with common arenas that can be used by many others in the community, investing in elderly centres and volunteer centres, health investments are good as some. I had a wonderful experience at the volunteering centre in Bø, where the idea was to create meeting places, across generations and for many different people. An older lady got help in snowmoving and supporting refugees who were living in Bø, while she in return packed food packages and made food on cottage tours. Everyone can contribute a little, the point is that the meeting places have to be found. With additional appropriations for the volunteer centres, better local economy and a new investment grant from 2008, we will create several meeting places. Last week I was invited to the Sidebuilding in Tønsberg, a creative sewing workshop for people who are struggling with social distress and poor mental health, and there they can come. through NAV practice sites. Here they can be helped to discover new and unknown abilities and develop them together with others, under the slogan ‘everything is possible’. In the Sidebuilding, the purest works of art are made. That skirt I'm wearing today is made by one of the girls there. I got it spoiled in gift. In the side building, they're talking about trampling on borders. Many who fall outside the ordinary A4 life are creative, sensitive people. That's what I've seen in the care of russians, in psychiatry and in prisons. To support offers with creativity and mastery in focus, such as Sidebuilding, Volunteer Centre in Bø, Amalie Skrams Hus in Bergen, Resurssenteret in Oslo, Tilja Follow-up Centre in Skien, Sjömverkstad til Kirkens Bymition in Tønsberg, etc. etc – there is a lot of good health in it! I think it is important to hold on to a holistic health concept, and that it is important not to leave the arena to the pharmaceutical industry and medicine alone. We're not broken up – the head and body are connected. There is an extremely high level of health in mastering, in experiences, in quality of life and meaning, in art and culture and in community. People with serious diseases can get healthier if they are well in other ways. Rehabilitation is faster when you have a reason to recover. It's great to see how people with great problems, who were previously defined as hopeless, have risen through processes where they were allowed to grow, allowed to master, allowed to triumph over their own fears, at their own pace. We have to organize it, without making such strict demands that people are doomed to failure. Many are impatient after change, and I understand that. Four years of right-wing rule and a few decades of market liberalism dominance and belief that most things can be measured and weighed and that the public sector can be controlled as an enterprise, have given us reason to become impatient. In addition, I believe that many employees in the public sector have reason to be provoked by how they are often referred to, especially on the right-hand side. Breed Prize winner Bent Sofus Tranøy shows in his book, the power of the market over the minds, how many have the attitude of public employees that they really don't create any values – they consume them. Any hesitated sales promotion, or the sale of coke and potato gold, for that matter, is value creation. In addition, public employees are often referred to as less efficient than private sector employees. This is unfair, it's wrong, and it gives answers that we don't need: like bonus pay, competitive systems and ranking lists that just help people get stressed and feel inadequate. We need more cooperation, internally, between subjects, between levels and between sectors. And we need to understand that not everything can be measured and weighed. I remember a Right-Rapporteur saying to me that if we had only treated the students as customers, we might have managed to make better schools. In the same way, I feel that many people think about the health system – as if we have greater value in terms of our purchasing power than by being citizens of a country, jointly responsible to each other! Unfortunately, some health workers choose to treat their patients as customers, as ordering their services. But health is a subject, with ethical principles, where those who need the most should have help first, and where health care can also be put down. Our policies must support this. We have to say that it's actually also necessary to say no sometimes, that the health care system can't do everything, that no one can be flawless and flawless all his life. Fear and concern provide poor quality of life, and this can lead to poor health. That's why, as politicians, we also have a responsibility not to blackmail the situation and to be honest enough to say that health services cannot solve absolutely all problems. Prevention is also important for us. We've been discussing this for several rounds this week, for example. in the case of alcohol policy. Prevention is also about the environment, and important efforts have also been made by the Government. Furthermore, as important as prevention, it is important to build — building children and young people to become adults with faith in their own abilities and opportunities, with courage, ability and willingness to care and to participate in society. Here organisations like MOT do a really great job. The same is true of outreach contacts, leisure clubs and anyone else who makes an effort to make young people feel comfortable with safe adults. In municipalities, it is important to build interdisciplinary teams at health centres, preferably with psychologists. I was so lucky to be allowed to sit one night at the health centre in Skien and listen to conversations between a psychologist and a youth who visited him – of course under the obligation of professional secrecy. It was clear how important it is to have offers where young people do not wait for winter and spring to get help for anything from what may seem as trifling for an ignorant adult, for self-harm, eating disorders, drug abuse and assault. We're going to bet on the municipalities in the psychiatry escalation plan, and we're going to provide a treatment guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 in areas like drugs and mental health. In addition, we provide funds to follow-up children from drug addicts and mentally ill parents. I am very pleased that a joint committee, on the initiative of the Christian People's Party, asks the Government to propose a law or regulation relating to the needs of relatives, children of mentally ill and drug addicts in the drug and psychiatric services. Finally, I would like to stress what a unanimous committee has said in the budget setting, that rehabilitation must be the next major health reform. Only in a coherent healthcare service, with user involvement and a place for relatives, can we get a proper health service. Therefore, we need more prevention, more cooperation, more user advice, more use of individual levels and more rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1857	After hearing the contributions of the representative Thorkildsen, I understand that the learning curve for SV in the government has been unusually steep. I want to grasp a little of the lack of coherence between what the representative Thorkildsen spoke about in his speech and the practical policy of the Government – and in particular issues related to the health of those who have poor advice. I would first like to refer to the Soria Moria declaration. On page 41 it is stated that the Government will ‘reduce and keep healthcare at a low level’. After the hearing in the committee where the government got quite a bit shut by all the user organisations when it came to this point, Thorkildsen himself went out into the media and said you had to have a review. So you're going to try to get away with rhetoric instead of action. My question is, Mr. Thorkildsen, is that 160 million. kr in increased excess amounts plus increases in food tax have an impact on those who can't afford it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1868	First, I think it's good that the Progress Party has an engagement at this point. That's an important point. SV still has an exposure in this regard, and the Soria Moria statement is firm. It reads under Chapter 8: Social policy, among others. that we're going to have a review of the probabilities – it's just looking up. So we're going to have to simplify them. We have done so, including: we have reduced Roof 2 by 1000 kroner. We have followed up on the exception for children under 12 in the case of excesses, as the previous government suggested. We have zeroed out the five-step app in terms of physiotherapy – fortunately. We have also ensured that there should no longer be excesses in outpatient outpatient outpatient outpatient services. To the extent that it should be lacking – this is an important work. We're going to continue with a review, for example. with a view to better shielding groups, but possibly also to transforming the systems. We'll look at it – and discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1877	I noticed that the representative Thorkildsen wants more user advice in the area of rehabilitation, but in the opinion of the Right, this should also apply in the area of rehabilitation. In particular, I would like to point out the need to strengthen the disability provision of children with disabilities. For these children and their families, a habilitation offer will be essential for their quality of life and everyday life. The right is pleased with the support of the other opposition parties to the proposal to establish a user-driven competence and resource centre for parents with children with disabilities. For parents in such a difficult life situation as this is, I can safely say that it will provide important support and information. Why can't the government parties – with SV – be involved in supporting such a centre? What is the reason why you go against a user council, a user-driven resource centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1884	I think this is a right and important question to address. As the representative Sjøli pointed out, we want more user impact and involvement from relatives. As I have said, this is related to what we write in the attitude, that we are going to get a proper evaluation and review of the various habilitation projects. We are really waiting for these evaluations and for an independent, professional review that will show us what it would be wise to bet on in the future. We're not going to reject this forever, but we're going to evaluate it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1893	First, I want to commend the representative of her great commitment to visiting different environments, institutions and patient groups. I think it's important, and I appreciate that we get this kind of posts in this room. We're all good at that. And the skirt was fine! I don't know if it's appropriate to mention it – I'll do it anyway. My one question concerns medically assisted rehabilitation. The Committee has joined many positive joint comments – not least those relating to the follow-up of LAR patients. Does the representative agree that medically assisted rehabilitation should not be offered as a first choice in treatment, but that other measures should be tested first? And then I wonder if the representative has made any sense about whether to reduce the age limit – which the Christian People's Party does not want – for when you get medically assisted rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1904	First I would like to say a thousand thanks for the roughness and for the very nice words of the representative Davøy. And then I want to answer the questions she's asking, and as I think it's very important: I think it's very important that we also focus on the non-medical offers, for reasons that I made up for here yesterday. Personally, I think it may often be a good idea to try offers that are of a non-medical nature before going over to the LAR. This has not been decided on in the Government – nor in the Swedish authorities. There are good reasons to try other offers first, including: because LAR will often be a lifelong treatment, which may have some consequences for the patients affected. As far as age limits are concerned, I may not think that is the most important thing, but rather that we are trying to give patients the opportunity to choose something else in advance, and that they are getting good information about what offers are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1913	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1916	Man must come first, both in terms of care in everyday life, and in terms of hospital treatment. Regardless of age, economy and place of residence, each individual must receive necessary and qualified assistance when needed. I will first refer to the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, which would collectively give approximately. 450 million. to health more than the framework now adopted for the Health and Care Committee — in other words, a much better budget than that of the Government in some areas. I will mention some of the main measures: 250 million. kr more for hospital treatment, of which 50 million. NOK 100 million for care at the end of life. SEK more for the Roadmap for Mental Health10 million. For patients with chronic disease, €20 million for treatment travel abroad. kr more to Health West in the case of rehabilitation reduction from 30 to 20 pst. in relation to people with high needs for care, what we today call resource-intensive users20 million. more to voluntary non-profit institutions in the rural area to provide services to more addicts. At this very point, there was agreement in the financial position between the Christian People's Party and the government parties, so that the framework for the Health and Care Committee was extended by 20 million. kr in relation to the Government’s original proposal. I am very pleased about this. In addition, some minor but important additions are made: cerebral paresis camp for young people, National Center of Competence for MS, Fjal Life Exam Centres, Muscle Skeleton Ten years, prostitution projects and organisations working for prostitutes, the Benefit Network and accompanying services for mentally retarded and disabled people. In the last two days, the Committee has had three different debates relating to the area. It is with increasing concern that we see increasing use and increasing abuse of alcohol, with its adverse effects, both directly and indirectly. The debates showed clear dividing lines between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Progress Party, the Right and the Left on the other, especially in view of alcohol policy instruments. However, in one of yesterday's interpellation debates there was a great deal of agreement between all the parties. This concerns the private non-profit drug institutions, which, as I mentioned, are strengthened by 20 million. kr in the 2007 budget. I am particularly pleased with the very clear position of the Council of State that these institutions need and that they need to have more predictable relationships than they experience today. Together with the Right and Left, the Christian People's Party is asking for the HUNT 3 population survey to increase its allocation so that the survey can be continued. The Christian People's Party for its part proposes a three-million-dollar allocation. for this purpose, by reducing equivalent amounts to the Institute for Public Health. I also need to mention the rehabilitation area in particular. There were many and thorough inputs about rehabilitation from several organisations at the Committee's budget hearings. And everyone was in agreement. The rehabilitation area is fragmented and different, and does not work at all in a number of situations. Nor does it help to have a patient rights law that appears – I would call it – gives right to rehabilitation, when this is not followed up with patient groups. In the rehabilitation code, I've almost made it easy with the magnifying glass to find out that it's actually about the right to rehabilitation. Now you may not be able to charge today's government for it, but the term "right to" does not exist here, but there is a part of it that municipalities and specialist health services have a care for responsibility. In addition, the provision of rehabilitation is very unevenly distributed, and many do not receive rehabilitation near where they live. For example, health west is far behind subsidies for rehabilitation, also based on objective objectives such as population, etc. That is why the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget proposes 20 million. kr more for rehabilitation in Health West. A very special disease group is Huntington patients. There are few good treatment and care measures available for this group of patients. However, the NKS Olaviken Age Psychiatric Hospital has developed a very good offer, and it is very good for this institution to expand its offer, in line with its own plans. I'm referring to the fact that the committee got a very solid impression when we were on an inspection here earlier this year. It is also provided with funds from the Government in the budget of this group. Many chronically ill patients benefit greatly from treatment travel abroad. They experience improvement in pampering, less drug use, community and exchange of experience with like-minded people. Together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party is promoting a proposal that pilot projects with new patient groups should be secured with fresh resources so that existing groups are not adversely affected. Both parties have proposed 10 million. to this action in their respective alternative budgets. Health enterprises are struggling, with more people involved. Within tight budgets, they shall reduce waiting times and make the necessary adjustments. The Minister of Health and Health has repeatedly said that this should be done by healthcare companies without affecting the patient’s services. Now, what we're seeing is that the patient offer affects a number of places. The increased funds proposed by the Government in the 2007 budget do not appear to be sufficient to allow businesses to maintain the same patient treatment as in 2006. Most of the fresh funds are already tied up, mainly in pension expenditure. The alternative budget of the Christian People's Party would give health businesses 250 million. kr more within somatic patients for treatment and 100 million. psychiatry, in particular targeting children and young people. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about the unexplained accumulated debt of businesses and proposes that the Government return to the revised national budget with a plan for health businesses to deal with accumulated debt after they have come into balance. This would ensure a prolonged predictability. Together with the Right and Left, the Christian People's Party proposes that the Government re-assess the need for changes in the allocation of basic appropriations to regional health enterprises in the 2008 government budget, in order to ensure a more equivalent health provision across the country. The need for guidance, help and information is great for relatives and children of mentally ill people. Today they have no declared rights. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the entire Committee has joined our proposal to ask the Government to assess the law or regulation relating to the needs of relatives and children of mentally ill and drug addicts — in the drug and psychiatric services. At the tamp I would say that it will lead too far to quote any suggestion that the Christian People's Party is behind either alone or with others. However, I would like to briefly mention a few suggestions that the Christian People's Party is all alone. It is a proposal to ask the Government to review the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities in a life-cycle perspective. The second is a proposal to grant a right to an immediate stay in a drug institution, pending treatment in the specialist healthcare service, defined as a right of access and put in a long waiting queue. This will prevent patients from losing the motivation they have gained from applying for help. If they are to stand in monthly queues, as many people do today and are going to do in the future, there is a great danger that they will not accept an offer on the day it suits health businesses to accept them. I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1983	The representative of Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1988	First, I want to start by thanking the Committee for constructive cooperation, not least in terms of these 20 million extras to voluntary drug institutions and organisations. But so it is that the Christian People's Party has not refused to cooperate with the Advance Party after the next major elections. Of course, the Party's alcohol and aid policy is a problem. In addition, the party has a completely different health policy from all of us, where the result must be a crazy increase in both bureaucracy and health expenditure. Prevention is small in the Progress Party programme, and an ISF share of 60 pst. combined with increased privatisation, we believe that there will be increased differences between patients and threaten the existence of many local hospitals. The question is, can it be a way to go for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e1997	I thank you for the question. I agree with the representative that we are far from the Progress Party in many areas of health policy. Not least in the alcohol debates we've had in the last few days, this has been made visible. In terms of input-driven financing, we are on the line that the Government is actually on. We're very worried about especially chronically ill if you were to switch to a different distribution than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e2004	I would also like to thank Mr Davøy for his constructive cooperation in many areas. The center of Lifestress is in Jölster, not in Fjaler. But it's a great project. That's what they say. But – when we read the main comment on the Christian People's Party, and go into the budget and see, we see that when they relate to the government budget, they've made one change, they've moved 3 million. kr, as the representative explained from the pulpit, to HUNT – i.e. this population survey – and took it from the Public Health Institute. My question is: does this mean that the Christian People's Party agrees with the priorities that this Government has made, within the framework given?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e2015	With my hand on my heart – I would have made a slightly different budget if I had been allowed to make it all by myself. I want to refer to some of the comments that the Christian People's Party either stands alone or is with some other parties about, that make it visible that we might have gone further in some areas. I would also like to refer to our alternative budget. Many of the proposals we have there have not joined the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-06.ana.ud2545e2022	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The regulatory time for the morning meeting is approaching its end. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
