ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e43	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative Eli Sollied Överaas from 6 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity, Oddbjørn Waterne, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e64	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is unanimously elected President of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e71	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of Tord Lien, Kåre Fostervold, Øyvind Korsberg and myself to review all the strange environmental requirements that could lead to competitive disadvantages for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e94	"We will live a long time. But we will never be old». So it's formulated in a text by Halfdan Sivertsen, and it hits pretty well today's cultural situation. The view of old age and ageing is not a constant one throughout history. It changes from society to society and from age to age. In the age of life that was rare, it was perceived as a good thing. Life expectancy is very high today, which is very common. It has become normal for people in our part of the world, and we consider it increasingly a political headache. Cosy enough, the word ‘old’ is about to disappear from the Norwegian language, because it is perceived as demeaning to refer to a person as ‘old’. That is why we have introduced the term ‘older’ instead, because ‘older’ sounds younger than ‘old’! There are thousands of ways to conceal reality through language, and it tells a lot about the collective unconsciousness that reigns in a society at all times. It's essentially important to underline... now I see the president has forgotten to start the clock. But that probably means that I have something to good over the ten minutes, so I appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e107	It has to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e110	This may be due to the President's advancing age. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e115	The president won't ignore it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e118	It is important to discuss the challenges of healthcare, to establish that old age and disease are not synonymous concepts. Because it is also of the cultural misunderstandings that aging itself is a disease. It is important to note that many of the characteristics that come with increasing age are not to be regarded as a disease but as a natural development. It's e.g. Of course, we're moving slower when we're 80 years old than we did when we were 20. And it's also quite natural that learning new skills and taking in new knowledge takes longer the older you get. This does not mean losing your learning ability — on the contrary. Very much indicates that the older we get, the better we learn things, but we spend more time on it. So it's part of the natural characteristics of old age that are definitely not going to be a problem. But it doesn't change the fact that, in our part of the world, we are facing demographic developments that are raising major political challenges, because the proportion of caring elderly people is going to increase dramatically. We know a lot about that, because demography is a relatively exact science. We know that the age structure of the Norwegian population will change dramatically over the next 30–40 years. The main problem lies in the fact that there will be a reduction in the number of people who are out of work and who sometimes need quite extensive assistance. It's primarily a socio-economic problem, which I'm not going to focus on in this interview. In addition to this, we are facing a whole range of planning problems. We have developed a healthcare service that is very advanced in technology and in high-specialised knowledge to run institutions. We've built a whole new type of institution over a few decades, the hospitals, which have increased significantly in scope. At the same time, we have created new problems, because the more institutionalisation is done, the more gaps arise between the different types of institutions, and the greater the risk that people with many disorders and complex problems will get poor help, simply because of fragmentation and specialisation in the systems themselves. To give a concrete example, there is a lot of evidence that very many older sick homes today all too often experience being sent by ambulances to hospital wards where they cannot be offered anything particularly meaningful. The main reason why they are sent back and forth is that there is no competence available in health care institutions or that those responsible do not feel secure enough to cope with the situation. It's something that it's possible to change. The Wisløff Committee’s setting has highlighted a wide range of problems and has proposed a number of concrete measures to improve the interaction between the different health services, especially in addressing older people’s problems. Let me also mention, as a concrete example, that the partly violent public debate we have had on rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the neighbourhood around Oslo, which has fortunately led to the health east appearing to review some of its decisions, illustrates the same problem, namely that it has not been able to focus enough on such a simple consideration as physical mobility for this category of people, and therefore offers them treatment sites so far away from home that it creates problems in itself, not only for the patient but also for the relatives, who naturally are very often at the same age, and who will experience problems when they are going to visit their closest. There is a significant potential for improvement here, but I will concentrate my challenges on the Council of State. I stress that this is not primarily political in the sense of party political challenges, because in this area it is the case, as the Preface to the Medical Association's report that came a few years ago and hot «When you get old and nobody wants you...» – it is not a completely encouraging title, but let go – that we here more than in some other areas have to lift in flocks. These are not questions that are suitable for party political pingpong games. It is a formidable national challenge to solve this in a way that gives the ageing population a good last part of their life cycle. Finally, I will focus this on challenges in relation to four areas: recruitment and empowerment. This concerns the organisation of services. There are more specific challenges related to interactions between the different parts of healthcare and the challenges facing family-based and voluntary efforts in this area. It amounts to per cent. Today – and it is almost always forgotten in debates on this – approx. half of the total effort. We will also be fully dependent in the future on the functioning of family-based care and voluntary action, but it will require some public support and organisation measures if it is to continue to work. First to the challenge of recruitment and competence: this government has started experimentation with a 6-hour day. The issue is a general reform of working time in the Norwegian community, which will be tested. In the health and care sectors, a transition to the 6-hour working day will result in a shortage of — per year. Today — 21,000 annual works, i.e. more than twice what the Government has undertaken to achieve in order to increase efforts over the next four years. So it's going to cancel out the bottom of the system. How does the Council of State view this? Does the Government at all have a uniform view of realism in this area? The government made a cut of 335 million. kr of the grant to independent free schools. It affected, among other things: high-quality diconal colleges with special services in the field of continuing education and training in the care of the elderly. What does the Council of State think of this? The Government has undertaken to introduce a national minimum standard for medical coverage in hospitals. This is not recommended as an inappropriate measure by the State Council’s own professional body, the Social and Health Directorate. How will the Council of State deal with this? The extremely high proportion of non-skilled staff — it is almost 40 pst. in this sector, and there is no other sector where the proportion of non-skilled staff is so high. What are the plans of the Council of State to change this? So for the organization. What emphasis should be placed on the satisfaction of users in this area? And my second question: can we afford to avoid the methods that are proven to lead to improved quality, namely freedom of choice and competition? So finally when it comes to the interaction. Patient rights are a fundamental instrument in the organisation of healthcare. It has been demonstrated in several reports that in this area, towards this group, the Patient Rights Act is broken much more frequently than in any other area. We have in this area, as Jan P. Syse used to formulate it, a lot of law and order. How does the Council of State see that procedures can be established to ensure that patient rights, not least the right to an individual plan, are met? So the very last – family care and voluntary effort. What action does the Council of State intend to take in the area of relief for those who bear responsibility in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e155	Firstly, I am pleased that this interpellation debate has come about, and I thank the interpellant for that. I also want to say right away that one of the best quality stamps in our society is that people live that long. We're gonna be happy for that. That's why we're not going to think of it as a negative, just as the representative on the pay side was doing. It is also, as was said, not all older people who need care and care, but there are many who do, and there will be even more in the years to come. Therefore, care services face both what we call capacity and competence challenges in the coming years. We have a large growth in the number of younger users, i.e. under 67 years of age. We have several older people with complex needs. And we're going to have a new generation of older people who have higher education, better health, longer life expectancy, who -- I'm going to predict -- are going to make even greater demands than today's older people do, and who will also have a better economy. All of this will require a care service both to provide treatment and, of course, to ensure that users continue to be able to live and develop on the basis of their premises. As the interpellant is familiar with, the Spring Government will present a separate case on future care services. There, the Government will draw up the long-term strategies needed to meet today's challenges. That means I don't have a response to everything that the interpellant brought up here today, but I'm going to try to answer some of that. Already now, we need to implement measures in the local care service – it is obvious – in the field of specialist healthcare and, as the representative was also involved, in the interaction between family care and civil society. The political parties have a tradition of finding good solutions together in the policy of the elderly. As the Prime Minister has said, we do not have a monopoly on the good ideas. We want to listen to what other parties have to join this field. I think it is positive that Dagfinn Høybräten spoke to the Prime Minister and asked for a meeting with me, which we have had this week together with the representative Davøy. I will follow that initiative and invite all political parties to cooperate on this important matter and to a meeting in the very near future. In a recent report, the State Health Authority warns that the service provision is ‘on a stretch’ in relation to the limit of soundness. It should be noted that the offer to individual recipients has been reduced on the grounds of a tight local economy, not because of the changed needs of the recipient. The population coverage of the care sector in the country as a whole has not kept pace with the development of older people in recent years, and the growth in staffing in the care of the elderly has stagnated and has been on the way out. This has created a serious situation, which is contrary to the objectives set by Stortinget at the end of the action plan for the care of the elderly. Through the strengthening of the municipal economy for the current year by nearly DKK 6 billion and a target of 10,000 new annual shifts in the care sector during this period, the majority government has taken the necessary steps to try to recover the neglected and hopefully provided a basis for making care services robust enough to meet future challenges. Let me immediately state that there are major medical and nursing needs to be met in this service every single day. This demanding work must underpin all activities in the care service. It is also essential that we establish a better interaction between the primary and specialist health services, as the representative on the pay side also pointed out. I have set up a separate group that is going to give me a position on 1 June, and which is going to make concrete suggestions on how to do this better, because it is not sustainable for many older people or others who need care and care, to come into a swing door situation between hospital, hospital and other services. I would also like to state quite clearly that the medical coverage in hospitals needs to be raised, and we need to use both creative and concrete measures to get it done. I believe that the situation we have today in many of our nursing homes is neither good nor worthy. We're going to use the tools we have to get the medical coverage up. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out some aspects of the care services that I believe have received too little attention in the debate on quality of care services. One area that almost always scores low in user surveys from care services is the psychosocial and cultural supply to users. Both supervision and research point to this as an ongoing problem and a neglected field. The review of care services by the Health Authority in the municipalities of October 2003 concluded that only 40 pst. there is sufficient provision of social contact and activity by recipients, while the offer was considered to be more adequate in other areas. In other words, it is for many elderly people and too many nursing people who are lonely in their homes and who do not have the necessary activity in the institutions to which they come. We have to do something about that. The activity offer must be built up, not built down. Culture is a medicine without side effects. We should have more of such medications. Research shows – and we know that, although we are not researchers – that social and physical activity reduces and exposes the loss of function. We know that people get a better life if you have contact with people and have something to look forward to. Therefore, I believe that cultural actions should have their natural place in the care service. I believe that culture and health should play together in a close multidisciplinary collaboration that stimulates body and soul, and that activates both emotional and intellectual skills. Elder centres are a good example of general prevention measures that counteract solitude, passivity and social withdrawal and create activity and social community. There is a high level of self-organisation and user management at many of our elderly centres. It appears that in the future, a further expansion of the elderly centres will also depend on measures to stimulate pensioners’ associations, non-governmental organisations or others to operate and establish such services. I am also concerned that the public should contribute to creating different meeting places between people and supporting and facilitating the voluntary involvement and development of a living civil society. I would therefore like to take the initiative to develop several elderly centres, such as prevention and activity areas, together with the voluntary sector. I would also encourage us to build up more daily services for the many elderly people who are at home and who have looked forward to an activity offer, if not every week, then perhaps every fourteen days – an offer that is now closed in many municipalities. Therefore, the manning situation and competence need not be set against each other. I believe that capacity and quality are two sides of the same issue, and both parts will be central to the government's recruitment plans in the future. In its report, the State Health Authority points out that both the scale and diversity of needs have increased in recent years, and that ‘the situation of staffing and competence seems to make the service provision vulnerable and less robust’. That is why it is important that we make efforts to ensure a stable crew with sufficient competence to meet the professional challenges that are often complex and complex. And then people have to talk. In other words, the challenges are linked to medical, health and social problems and require both empowerment and, I would also say, a greater professional breadth than what we have today, in order to get a better care for the elderly and the care sector. As I said, I have already been in contact with some political parties, and I invite all political parties to participate in a good deal of better care and care for those who need it in the years to come. I hope that everyone will join in. I have already been in contact with several professional groups working in this sector, who have clear and strong opinions about what should be improved. Not least, I think we should listen even more to the users, to professionals in the municipalities, and what it must be, to meet the skills and capacity challenges that we have. I am concerned that they are going to be allowed to believe a lot of sails about what care services they need. Sufficient time should be given for thought and time to be able to talk, so that the applicable time is not stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e196	I thank the Council of State for the answer – and especially for the invitation to broad cooperation in this area. I think that's definitely the right approach, and I don't think there should be a lack of cooperation in this room when it comes to putting in place the skill that the Council of State advertised. But there were a couple of things, in a response that was otherwise appropriate, that I attached myself to – not so much that the Council of State commented or said anything about, but what she said nothing about. These 10,000 annual works sound impressive. But so far we have not got any content regulation, what kind of annual work, what competence, and even less any explanation of where to provide this labour force. The Minister of Finance made a public statement as late as a few days ago with great concern about the shortage of labour supply in general in Norway. The lack of trained staff in this area is the real problem. For one thing is to get a net of 10,000 new annual works, something else is to solve the problem of 40 pst. of those working in the sector today are unskilled. It's a formidable challenge. I hope that this is going to be a central part of the message that the Council of State is now working on, and that the previous government is far on the way to providing the basis for it. I hope that's going to be clarified in that message, because otherwise we're at risk that this number of 10,000 -- which is really just a projection of the increase we've had in the previous year, so it's much less impressive than it sounds -- becomes a game with no substance. Let me just point to one thing that I didn't get into my first post. One of the greatest challenges to my concepts of the provision of the ageing population is mental health protection. We've put a pretty strong searchlight on the child and youth psychiatry deficiencies, which are eye-catching and uproaring. There is reason to believe that the shortage is even greater with regard to the ageing population, just that it is not there, because there is not the necessary expertise, and therefore many common phenomena such as depressions are not diagnosed and untreated in this age group, despite the fact that there could have been significant improvements in the quality of life for many older people with relatively simple efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e209	First, the 10,000 annual works are not games of numbers without substance. In the matter we come to spring, we will of course explain how we intend to do this. Of course, some of the answers are something that we have now started on, namely a stepping-up plan for more money for the municipalities, so that they can hire more people. But we want to get back to that. And then I believe that 10,000 annual works are realistic, and that is absolutely necessary. And then the question is how are we going to do it? Yeah, first of all, we're going to have to educate more people. There's no doubt about it. Secondly, what we need now is what we call skilled workers, who used to be help nurses, we need nurses, we need doctors, we need cultural workers – so we need a greater professional breadth. A short time ago, I visited a high school where they trained for what is now called skilled workers. We need more men into this sector, and we are actively working on how to recruit more people. The first thing the students said to me was that the boys who went there -- and there weren't many -- felt a bit bullied by other guys. So we're working on how to get more men in. They also told about an advisory service at school that almost did not mention the training of skilled workers at all. It was kind of just nothing to care about. So we are now working in a fairly broad field – from the counselling service at school – to informing about getting more men in, etc., and that applies at all levels, of course. Then we also have to make sure that those who want it go from part-time to full-time. There are quite a number of people in this sector – and I know that the representative agrees with me – who tell me every day that they work in municipalities where they get such small fractions that it is almost impossible to live on. We have to try to do something about this for those who want it, and for those who do it. It's clear that there's a very high potential. Then we also know that in this sector, there are many who get sick and many who get tired too early, especially women, because it gets too tired. So you have both sides. We need to make sure that we have an offer for those who work in this important sector, who do an incredibly important job, so that more things can stand longer in the job – that is, inclusive working life in a broad sense. It's a management responsibility. One of the discussions we have to take on the matter that we come to spring, and that I invite the whole Storting to join in and think something about before that, is: do we perhaps need more leadership in this sector? We have more leaders in school than we have in this important sector. One of the things we need to discuss is whether we need more leaders. I also think there's some of the answer to how we're going to get more employees in and get a better service. Mental health protection – my speaking time is soon out – is very important, and I am very concerned about it. I also want to get more concrete suggestions on what to do there, but some of the answer is also where activity, culture, get out, meet people, have someone to talk to. I think with that, you just reduce a lot of mental disorders, even for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e220	Our starting point is that better quality and care needs to be created by expanding community services and not by using market forces, i.e. competitive outsourcing, or what is called free user choice with a more pedagogical term. Making the care of older people a market where private companies are going to compete with each other by pushing costs and making them more efficient in large and small terms results in the introduction of tools such as minute schedules, time measurements, also called ‘stopwatch care’ in the last year’s debate. This leads to a costly bureaucracy of invoices, tenders, completion of forms, ordering offices, etc. At the same time, if you cut the basic services of the elderly down to a minimum, like home help once every four or five weeks in Oslo's city districts, and then offer those older people who require better quality, to buy services for $500 an hour from their own wallet, we'll get an unfair system. On a direct question from TV2 in the election campaign on the Christian People's Party would allow private companies to make money in the care of the elderly, so fortunately the Christian People's Party's leader answered a clear and resounding no. This is important, because it means that a broad majority here at Stortinget believes that the debate on quality of care should not be about outsourcing and privatisation and so-called free choice of use, but about how we can develop the quality of community services. Because what's more important than that users get to choose which company to come every four or five weeks is whether they can get home help, whether we can get enough resources to get them home help or home care whenever they need it. It's this that's crucial. It is essential to be able to choose to live at home, get enough help to live at home for as long as you want, that those who are quite fragile, but can manage at home, get a lift in the block, say that they have enough access to home help, and that they get enough home care – without this having anything to do with the size of the wallet. It is also essential for security – for freedom of choice – to be able to opt for hospitalisation whenever necessary. Here we have a problem: the threshold for hospitalization has become too high in many places in the country. This applies, inter alia, to: in Oslo and Molde, which the Health and Welfare Committee visited last week. The queues have been removed and the number of sick homes has been reduced by raising the threshold to fit the waiting lists. This is not the way to create security, genuine freedom of choice and real quality for the elderly. A quality promise in care and care should also address new challenges. I think, among other things: that many elderly people who are not in an institution and who have non-suspension-free gum diseases can often get excellent dental bills, a total of $10 million, after having installed crowns or bridges or had root fillings. Too often, those who can't afford it must choose the cheapest solution, namely to draw their teeth. We need to build support schemes for those who get such large bills, so that they can afford decent dental treatment and not get their quality of life severely impaired by going toothless. Another crucial task when we want a quality promise in the care of the elderly will be to create a better offer for the 70 000 home residents who, according to a report by the Health and Social Directorate last autumn, suffer from dementia. There is a need to build skills and increase resources around the country. Many spouses and close family members make an outstanding effort for their loved ones who suffer from dementia, but they can often wear heavily. It is now time to give them an honest deserved handshake, in the form of better public assistance. Better quality and real freedom of choice must be created by adding new resources to municipalities, by giving better room for good community services, and by joining forces to solve new tasks, such as: improved joint dental provision, improved dementia care, improved transport services and adequate health care facilities, with no excessive intake threshold.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e236	The interpellant has addressed a very important topic, and in its response, the Council of State has pointed out very many important areas. Unfortunately, very few concrete measures have been mentioned here. Governments have not brought anything to reassure me at least on the challenges we face. When you hear the Labour Party’s representative for Oslo put the similarity between competitive outsourcing and free user choice, there’s also reason to be a little worried. There is nothing to suggest that Oslo's situation is special. Many worker-party-controlled municipalities are in the same situation, for example: Fredrikstad. It may be important to take a look back and look at what has happened. There has been a large-scale expansion of nursing homes, while there has been a reduction in the number of nursing homes. The improvement is that double rooms are converted into single rooms, and some new institutions are built up. Today, there is less room for institutions compared to older people over 80 years of age. The intention was that older people should have a better age by being given the right to choose for themselves how long they wanted to live in an owner-occupied dwelling. That freedom of choice is not older today. They are fully committed to the priorities of the municipality. The municipalities have been free in terms of how the development was to take place, but the need has not been taken into account. It's the concern of the economy that's been running, and it has led to the fact that a lot of people in need of care today don't have the offer that they should have had. The threshold for hospitalization is too high. The threshold for nursing homes is also too high. There are great variations from municipality to municipality. It is quite clear that this difference does not reflect the needs of each municipality, but rather the priorities of the municipalities. It is unimportant that threats to the closure of hospital and day care facilities and cuts in the necessary care services come to the fore each time municipalities deal with their budgets. Where property taxes are to be introduced or increased, the threat of cuts in old age care is also used as an argument. The municipalities are charged with a great deal of responsibility, and they have gained unlimited trust when the Stortinge only provides framework transfers to care for the sickest and old in our society. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, in 2001 there were 11 000 home-dwelling elderly people who wanted help but who were unsolicited. It is then a paradox that user surveys are carried out among those receiving services and not among those not receiving the necessary services. Some groups of older people did not receive help either from the municipality or from private sources, although they had major problems carrying out daily tasks. In the nursing homes there was a significant lack of professional competence in terms of our sick and disabled old. According to a national survey the same year used 98 pst. of nursing homes coercive substances in violation of Norwegian law every day — in the form of doping, tying or shutting in old. Patients often did not receive studies, diagnosis or treatment that they are entitled to. With a cut in the number of jobs compared to the increase in the number of nurses in the period 2002–2005, there is little evidence that conditions have improved today. Can this be called a progressive care for the elderly? Looking back at all the plans and documents that have been created, processed and adopted in recent years, one should ask what has gone wrong, when many of the country’s old people today live under the conditions of the welfare state of Norway cannot be aware of. One assumes that it's going to be 60 pst. increasing care needs up to 2030. There is also a major unmet need for geriatric specialists in both nurses and doctors. Use of one medical device per year. 160 patients in our nursing home. The corresponding figure in Norwegian hospitals is one year’s work per year. 2.2 patients. It has been created approx. 1000 new positions in hospitals during a 10-year period. The corresponding number in nursing homes is zero – and that's where the very sickest in society are located. The fixed medical system also works poorly in the case of old sick residents. Here you also have to find a different system, so that they get the necessary medical care. Large-scale training of professional personnel must be taken seriously. You can't achieve a goal by writing a wish list in the Soria Moria statement. It is necessary to introduce a sound standard of care and medical care in hospitals and to have a forward-looking service funding system. An equivalent and good health care across the country cannot depend on local priorities and on the response between municipalities and the state. The current form of funding is slightly forward-looking and has proven that it does not ensure an equivalent and satisfactory offer for the elderly. The Progress Party has promoted a Document No. 8-proposals asking the Government to submit a plan for the conversion of Norwegian elderly care where the government is responsible for ensuring that the money follows the user and covers the cost of care. We look forward to examining this proposal and hope that some worn-out jaw paws can be placed in the stable, so that users' rights are guaranteed, and that the elderly can regain security.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e264	The right objective is to promote dignity, quality of life and independence in old age. All people are equally valuable, no matter where in the life cycle you are and what level of function you have. It is in this perspective that we are going to design the healthcare services. Some time ago I visited a nursing home where there was a board on the wall. It said: ‘Care is not given until it has been received and experienced as care.’ The quality of the care provision depends on whether older people experience being taken seriously and treated with the respect they deserve. Older people in nursing homes must also have the opportunity to make personal choices. A lady who lived in a nursing home, whom I knew well and visited often, said the following – and I want to say to the thought: ‘This is my home. I want the opportunity to control my own life, even if it happens from bed. I want the opportunity to know the basic security of someone being close, really close, when the pain, the anxiety, and the loneliness come true. And if it were to happen that the ocean of oblivion drowns my memory, let me not have more to deal with than I do." It was her choice. Another might choose something else. A key challenge for future healthcare is how we can treat patients with age judgment better than today. Age dementia is the suffering that leads to most years of severe disability at the end of life, which requires most resources from municipal health and care services. About 60 000 to 70 000 suffers from this severe disorder, and three out of four hospital residents are affected. The incidence is increasing with increasing age. The increase in the number of older people will lead to a sharp increase in the number of age dentures. We're prepared for that. Care measures may improve the functioning of patients. This takes the form of customised activation, environmental therapy, memory training and the practice of mastering techniques. The latter has demonstrated efficacy in maintaining daily life’s functions and reducing anxiety in patients. However, medical options are limited. A breakthrough in medical research at the age quo can provide better treatment options and thus have a crucial impact on the quality of life of many patients and their relatives. Furthermore, this can reduce the need for care services and thus be of major socio-economic importance. We know that about half of all dents live at home, while only 4 pst. has an organised offer. It shows what a big challenge we have in front of us. Municipalities need to be stimulated to ensure better provision for residents, in order to allow them to stay at home for as long as possible. In this area, the Council of State was concerned with many good measures that I think we should support. The care provided by families and volunteers is estimated to be as extensive as the public offer, which included Inge Wohnung. In the design of future care services, we also need to focus on relatives. Dementes’ relatives often experience a very demanding life situation, where they see personality changes in their neighbors at the same time as they face demanding care tasks. Patients should be better provided with guidance and support. I know that the National Association for Public Health arranges indigenous schools, which is an example of follow-up in this way. Nursing and care services have also received many more and different users. We often continue to talk about care for the elderly, but care services provide assistance to people of different ages, different situations and very different needs. People with mental and/or drug problems are among those who need assistance from the municipality to cope with everyday life’s tasks. Some need assistance for short periods, others for their entire lives. Disabled persons are among those users who need lifelong help. These users must take part in the discussion on the design of future care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e285	The interpellant did not really raise a general discussion about the elderly care policy, but – as I understood it – a discussion about quality and competence in the future, linked to the fact that there are more elderly people and that there is a decrease in the workforce. I don't want to be involved in a black paint of the situation of the old. Like the interpellant, I agree that old age is a natural state – it is better than the alternative – and we have many healthy elderly people who are economically well off. In general, older people are not the weakest group in society. But, of course, many people need help. We have a challenge in that we need more hands in the care work. But not only that: there must be staff who are qualified, competent and not least motivated. Of course, we need good organisation, so that resources are used for care and do not disappear in bureaucracy or grey areas between management. I think, like the interpellant, that the most critical will not be the number of doctors or nurses, but that it will be the number of unskilled. The unskilled in the care sector are a group which differs from others by the fact that, when they leave the position, they rarely move to other positions in the same sector; very often they move to disability, or they end up in the care sector in order to move to other sectors and positions there. It's important to prevent this when 40 pst. by the elderly care staff are unskilled. It is necessary to work to keep these people in the profession and to make the care profession attractive to more people. I would like to point out a small fraction of instruments that combine recruitment, employment and competence. These are things that belong together. But first, of course, the community economy is important. This has already been taken into account by the Government. Increased care requires that we have a municipal sector with sufficient resources. And that is necessary, not least for municipalities to provide unskilled opportunities to increase their skills by offering apprenticeships as carers. It is a tremendously important work, which I hope the municipalities will be able to follow up. We must help raise the status of those working in the care sector. Of course, it happens through pay, it happens through working conditions, but perhaps it happens primarily through vocational training. Education and increased skills will help us achieve what the interpellant asked for, increased quality of service, and help people stay in their jobs. There is a lot of evidence that the working conditions of carers cause many to struggle and sacrifice the health of the job. It has to do with rotteracet, resulting from a one-sided focus on production, the threat of privatisation and poor municipal economy. I believe that the focus must be as much on quality as on quantity, and in order to prevent burnout and professional wear and tear, I believe that an experiment with the 6-hour day can be of great importance to help keep people in work. So I think, unlike the representative, the six-hour day can prove to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. One of the challenges, however, is that we need to ensure that those who are currently in a part-time position do not further reduce their job break. The solution is at least not in the so-called free user choice, which requires an expensive bureaucratic ordering/executing organisation, a privatisation with the associated increased use of a stopwatch. The solution lies in a demand for increased flexibility in cooperation with employees, where the aim is not to create brutal conditions that push people out of the care profession, but to remain as experienced and motivated employees who care a lot about the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e302	Everyone deserves a worthy old age. And older people who depend on help have the right to individual offers that preserve their integrity and dignity. Much is good in Norwegian care for the elderly; not least, many of those who work with and for our elderly make a fantastic effort. However, care for the elderly faces significant challenges over time: up to 2050, the number of people over 67 will double. In 1997, the political parties at Stortinget joined forces on an action plan for the care of the elderly. It has been a success in many areas. The National Auditor has put his clear stamp on it in this way. The plan has provided almost 39,000 new places in hospitals and nursing homes. There are now much more hospital and care areas per year. over 80 years of age than in 1998, with a significant increase in the exclusive share. However, the 1997 retirement plan was largely a building reform. Now we need a care reform with a focus on content and quality. The Christian People's Party has therefore called for a new and broad settlement and a common promise for a dignified care for the elderly: an older reform 2. Earlier this year we made an appeal to all the political parties about this, and we have received positive feedback from all. All parties want better care for the elderly. There may be disagreement about some instruments, and the debate here today has illustrated this. But we don't have to construct disunity that doesn't exist, and at least we don't have to create a confrontation for the sake of confrontation in an area that screams at as much political intelligence, creativity and action as this field does. Instead, we should join forces in a cross-political effort for a quality promise in the care of the elderly. It is very gratifying that the Council of State in Stortinget today has said clearly that the Government wants such a cooperative commitment. Together, we can build a care service that is better able to meet the needs of individuals and the needs of the future. I am also very pleased that the Council of State here today has announced that she will initiate a dialogue with the parties before the Government submits its proposal to the Stortinget in June. Cooperation should then be finally clarified during the examination of the matter here in the Stortingen until the autumn. It will give older people, relatives, municipalities, employees and educational institutions clear points of view as to what they can expect in the future. It makes us get a better, more targeted and more planned advancement in this field. In a new age reform, we must first of all ensure that there are more hands, caring and qualified hands with time for each one. Therefore, we need to increase recruitment and enhance the competence of all types of personnel. Secondly, we need to increase the quality of services. We have to meet the needs of the individual user and family. And we have to make sure, as the interpellant was inside, that, among other things. through better organisation, better coherence of service. Thirdly, we must bring forward voluntary and family-based care. The care pay system should be strengthened and the relief offer for relatives who themselves take responsibility for their nursing age needs to be improved. We can't afford to leave it. Fourthly, we need to expand our capacity further. We have to make sure that the elderly who are in need of care do not wait a long time to meet their necessary needs. And we have to make sure that those who are printed after hospitalization know that they have an offer that matches what they need. Unfortunately, in many individual cases, this is a gross sin. There's a missing link, a lack of coherence, in our service chain that we have to seize, and the Wisløff committee has pointed out some possibilities. I am pleased that the Council of State has today announced that she is working specifically and has also set up a separate working group working on the follow-up to this. Quality costs. We do not exclude that a power cap for quality in the care of the elderly will cost. There must be money on the state budget for this, and I would like to say that, if necessary, funds should also be earmarked for the municipalities. We invested 40 billion kroner on the previous plan. The new plan should at least be at a similar level. Such a new elderhood requires an obligating plan, not a new investigation by the Government. Therefore, I hope the Government will make a proposition, not just a big message. It should be given to Stortinget before the summer and the first steps should be taken in the 2007 state budget. Then we're in the process of something like this big banging can be proud to have been on, and I'm very happy that the signals so far indicate that the interpellant is getting right: we want to lift in stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e328	In its response, the Council of State shows how important it is to have a broad approach when talking about care for the elderly. In the public debate about care for the elderly at regular intervals, there is often a focus on institutional care, and often on the lack of institutional facilities and the difficulty of finding room. This is an unworthy situation, so the majority government has decided to continue the favourable funding mechanism for low coverage municipalities even after 2007. It is clear that the certainty that there is a sick home place is important to the caregiver and to the relatives – that there is a place when you get there that you need it. But at the same time, it's important to stress that there's actually only about a quarter of those over 80 years old who become residents of institutions. The rest live at home with different needs for care, from handling the sea without assistance from outside because family and relatives provide, for home care or use for heavy home care. When the State Health Authority in a report points out that recipients have been reduced on grounds of tight economy, and not due to changing needs of users, it underlines what the Senterpartie repeated many times in the previous ageing period: there is a large underfinancing of municipalities in relation to increasing needs. The big mistake many people make when we talk about care for the elderly is to think about groups of old people. As an old man, a neighbor and a community belong. In this context, it is essential that municipalities, together with voluntary teams and organisations, organise a variety of services that can also be shared by older people with different interests and levels of function – that the cinema is available, that the church shower is in place, that the elderly council is actively involved in the planning and operation of the elderly centre, that the provision of care by municipalities includes day-care services for people living at home who seem to be long and lonely, that demented residents can have good follow-up by qualified staff with daily services, and as relief for relatives. It is against this background that the majority government in the Soria Moria Declaration, under the heading ‘Elderly’, says: ‘The government will further develop care for the elderly so that an increasing number of older people have good opportunities for quality of life and development. The offer shall be tailored to the needs of the individual.’;» It is, as the Council of State says, shown that we need more hands in the care of the elderly. I think most people here in Stortinget also say that. The Government aims to increase the number of annual works by 10000 compared to 2004 levels. At the same time, it is essential that the responsible keep reviewing the organisation of the care area. Research into the living conditions of the elderly, the health problems of the elderly and how care can be improved are prerequisites for quality improvement. We need a lot of research in this area. This is a priority of the Government. Furthermore, municipalities shall be able to further train and retrain nursing and care staff so that the necessary skills can enhance quality. I have been around many municipalities and I have talked to leaders in care and politicians. They're actually very concerned that the staff should be qualified, and they see that there are obvious deficiencies in many places. Educational institutions that can offer both differentiated and decentralised services are actually becoming important partners in this context. With regard to the interaction between the local health service and the specialist health service, which is addressed by the interpellant, the government statement states that local hospitals should have a central role for the elderly and ensure proximity to the services, further increasing the number of specialists in geriatrics. Here we actually see a very positive development – more in the medical profession are looking for this special area. At the same time, it is also an important instrument to provide funding for local hospitals that take into account older people with complex disorders. I think the posts so far in the hall testify that we're going to get a lot of good, and that we're going to get a care for the elderly that it can actually shine off in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e348	Having a decent care for the elderly is one of the most important tasks in a society. With an increasing number of older people, the challenges associated with good and dignified care for the elderly will grow. It's not a joke when we're talking about increments. Looking ahead — as we have mentioned — to the projections of the population in Norway, the number of older people, i.e. those over 80 years of age, almost increasing explosive atmospheres. We're talking about an increase of 300,000, or 150 pst, from 2020 to 2050. It's huge numbers – big challenges. Older people mean several sick elderly people, more elderly people with dementia, more elderly people with anxiety and depression, and more chronically. This is the backbone that poses future challenges in the care of the elderly, and which requires – as has been mentioned by both the Council of State, the inter-pellant and several speakers – a common national commitment to an elderly care effort. The left is busy to see the individual. High age does not automatically need to be associated with high level of care. Older people have – as others do – different needs, and the services to be provided by older people need to be adapted to the individual as much as possible. Those who have difficulty coping with themselves must, to the extent that they are able to do so, choose between home-based care, community-based elderly housing and institution-based care. The left will introduce a care guarantee to ensure the quality of care for the elderly and to ensure the individual's rights. All those in need of help in their everyday lives must receive the necessary assistance when they need it. Such a guarantee must include access to medical competence, proper care, functional security alarm, transport service, home help, freedom of choice, own institutional rooms and not least a worthy care at the end of life. One of the challenges — and the recovery potential, I believe — is, as the interpellant had to say, a stronger interaction between the different levels of service. Not least the interaction between the level of specialist health services and the level of primary health services is involved. The improvement of interaction is really an improvement area and an area of better resource use and security and better services, the Health and Welfare Committee was confirmed in our meeting with representatives of health companies – we have been in Health Mid-Noreg – and in meeting with the State Health Authority. If we are to be able to develop this and get a better interaction, I believe it is an important element that the financial arrangements in the interaction room need to be improved. Today, for example. in order to ensure that the work of specialists at the level of primary health services, i.e. specialists travelling from, for example, a district psychiatric centre to the municipalities, must initially be carried out free of charge. At a time when the budget is tight for individual health businesses, such zero pricing would lead to a refusal to participate in such – medically – proper specialist use. The municipalities on their side will not have an incentive to improve their services, for example: The psychiatry area, as long as they get free help from the specialists. The sum total is going to be a misalignment because of the lack of pricing in this area. Left says that a strong public health service under democratic control is the best guarantee that the available health resources are used to create an equivalent supply, with priorities on a medical basis. But in addition to a public health service, there should be room for private actors as a supplement to the public. The left's loyalty lies not with the service provider, neither with the public nor with the private, but with the user. In this case, care is needed in the elderly. The left sees a great need for much more attention to be paid to the diseases that especially affect the elderly, precisely in order for one to have the necessary skills in the future to treat all those who become ill. Competence in this context is particularly true of enough nurses, especially nurses with special training in geriatrics and psychiatry, and of course those who are out of work within the same disciplines. [[The President clubs.]] Excuse me, President, I have not seen the light! [[Muntering in the Chamber.]] I'll finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e374	The interpellant addresses a matter on which the Workers' Party is of course also concerned, namely good quality in the care and care sector. Quality is, among other things, as mentioned before today, the build-up of skills for those who are going to work there. We need professionals. When we're going to build houses, we want professionals who can build them, and when we're going to have someone to care for our old caregivers, we also need professionals. We need people with knowledge of care, health and ethics. Many unskilled people do a great job. But everyone knows that having knowledge and competence and knowing why you do things makes everyday life and work easier for everyone. Observing, having knowledge of health can prevent and prevent unnecessary hospitalisation. Knowledge is important not least in order to avoid sick messages and burnout of employees, which is also a problem among people in the health sector. A strong build-up of skills, such as: higher education and vocational education can provide, is an important element of this. It is necessary to facilitate, as the Council of State said, that as much as possible is influenced to go that way. Another way to get more people in the care and care sector is, of course, to offer them jobs, full-time jobs. It is a well-known case that part-time jobs are most difficult – many small fractions, for different reasons. But it should be in 2006 that those who want a full-time job should get it. While people get a job they can live on, we also get more hands at work. Linkage and continuity at work also increase quality and provide a safer environment for older people by more often meeting the same staff. This is linked to local economy, which this government has begun to rectify. The tightening up of the interpellant itself in the municipal sector affects, of course, the number of posts that will be allocated to the care and care sector. It takes years to rebuild it again. Destruction does not create quality, but only provides the most necessary care. One of the offers that have been cut, as also mentioned by the Council of State, is the activity offer of the elderly. Here, too, the Progress Party has been involved in cutting a part of the municipal economy. The representative Giltun said in his post that she was worried about it, and I understand that. There are a lot of people who use it as daily services, and there is something we hope can come back, because there are prevention measures. It delights and enriches the everyday life of the individual, and that means quality. It can also make people stay at home longer, and that life gets much more meaning and content. It also means that the caregivers get a breathing room, which they also need. Elder centres with food services for nursing homes also provide quality and health. The fact that older people receive good nutrition will make them endure longer where they want to live — at home, perhaps — and if they get that opportunity, they stay healthy longer. We are pleased to see that the studies that have been carried out since we increased the municipal budget for 2006 show that most municipalities spent money on strengthening efforts for the elderly and school. That's exactly what we hoped for, and it will in the long run provide a quality promise and freedom of choice for our elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e393	The previous article could give me the basis for a five-minute round on the development of the local economy in the last four years. I just want to see that the balance sheet of the local government sector is substantially established with the accounts for 2005. There has been a significant increase in the number of people employed in the elderly care and in the care sector in general during the last four years, but their growth is higher than that of those over 67 years of age. The previous government did some things for the heavy users — disabled and others — that led to a significantly improved quality. This does not mean that there are no problems in the care of the elderly, and there will still be a long development phase in the future where we need to look at both how we interact and what action needs to be taken. I think recruitment is important, but besides recruiting, it is important to look at the quality and whether our elderly care services are well adapted to the different groups of older people we have. The Bondevik government had plans to notify Stortinget that it would provide a big message of quality in the care of the elderly. An important step for us will be, and must be, to build up excellence in the field of geriatry and in the field of dementia, and to look at how we can get good enough customization of the offers, especially towards the dentures. I want to say that there we often have a lot of good local examples. We have examples that maybe not just home-based services are the solution to demente at an early stage. Maybe it's like we need a few more book-collectives, some more possibilities that give dement to the supervision they often lack. Demente does not necessarily need care, but they need supervision, because they are in a situation where they can quickly do something in their lives that will harm themselves, and because they just start to get confused. Therefore, it is important to look at offers between the usual institution and the home-based services, which bear the mark of it, but which at the same time provide a supervisory element. I have visited one in Stjørdal and one in Steinkjær, and I registered that, among other things. were several ladies who thought they were on the third year's housemori. No one told them that they really couldn't go home. They usually used to say that they would go home to lunch, but in the evening they said they took another night. It says something about their perspective, but it provides security for the relatives and a security for themselves at a stage before they need the care and care that is in a normal institution in the care of the elderly. But then there are other important areas that I think we need to take seriously, and that is the interaction between the first and second line service. It's not a special sight for the care of the elderly. In fact, in almost all of our care sectors, interaction between the first and second line services is involved. I myself have worked a lot on this, in connection with the homeless projects, where the interaction – for drug users, for psychiatric patients and for people who come out of prison – is an important part of how we should manage to get well adapted offers for those who have the worst. But then it's also important to have room for it. And there I agree with the Left's representative who says that we must probably also be untraditional in how we find funding forms. In our country, it's very different. What is good interaction in large cities will not necessarily be the same in district municipalities in Norway. Competence and the ability to take heavy users back, e.g. in the care of the elderly, will be slightly smaller in some district municipalities than it might be in larger municipalities with greater and wider competences. It's important to say that we might have a unique opportunity to use the environment we have in telemedicine to provide, for example. good district-based elderly care for part of those moving from second-line service back to first-line service, but need follow-up that geographically difficult to provide to all places in the country. Then I want to make a small recommendation to the Council of State. The Ministry of Local Affairs financed a project in the municipality of Kristiansand for a few years on input-driven financing in the care of the elderly. It was a local project, but we thought it was interesting to see how this would work. One of the results they pointed out in their preliminary report was the organisation they obtained from it internally in their municipality. There was significantly better interaction between those who measured the help they needed in the municipality and those who wrote out at the hospital. It wasn't the main purpose, but they found the organization model itself. They found a side effect: because there was a stable number of people who kept following up the people who were going to be printed, and made a recipe in the municipality for how this was to be followed up, they got a significantly better interaction. Therefore, I will be allowed to recommend – I understand the Government is going out and going – that the Council of State takes a look at this and see if it is not a good example for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e410	The content and quality of care for the elderly have been put on the agenda, and many are engaged in the debate both inside and outside this room. It is positive and promises well for a Plan 2, for which the Christian People's Party has taken the initiative. Following this initiative and the presentation of a Document No: Eight proposals for ethical committees, from me and two other representatives of the Christian People's Party, I have received many single calls from different parts of the country. It is clear that many are concerned with the content of care for the elderly, and also with ethical issues. A nurse begins her letter with the following sentence: I wanted to tell you a little about my experiences in a nursing home through approx. 30 years, so you'll understand even more the necessity of such a committee. She then tells me about several isolated episodes, related to what she has experienced as unworthy situations for single patients. At least there are attitudes in the human resources group, to each other and to patients. But she also tells of good employees who have tried to report unworthy circumstances and who have not received any particular hearing for it. Employees today make an amazing effort, day after day, year after year, skilled as unskilled. Many people talk about busy days where they feel that they often don't stretch. There was so much more they would do. We also know that the care sector is characterised by relatively low formal levels of education. More people have been involved in this today. In particular, this is a challenge in the health care sector, with an increasing number of complex and professionally demanding tasks to be addressed. And precisely in this sector, I see a need for a lot more employees with health and nursing skills. I think primarily of doctors, nurses and caregivers. However, other groups, such as ergot therapists, physiotherapists and activists, are also important occupational groups if we are to provide the broadest range and content of care for the elderly at all levels. Priests are also needed for those who have existing and spiritual needs. And even today, the Council of State has mentioned another group: cultural workers. People who are totally dependent on professional staff to satisfy their basic human needs are vulnerable. There must be a climate in which absolutely all, patients, relatives and employees, can legitimately take up and put words on ethical problems and dilemmas in everyday life at the hospital. Being able to create an ethically conscious climate with each individual human being in focus will have a major impact on the quality of care performed. This is part of the background to the proposal to set up ethical committees in hospitals or in the municipalities. We will have our own debate on this later. Ethical committees are not a new phenomenon. Our health companies already have experience that we can take advantage of. A positive result of ethical committees in health establishments is that the committees have taken the initiative and have participated in the development of guidelines in ethically difficult areas at work. I am very pleased with the consensus it seems to be about the focus on the content and quality of care for the elderly. However, older people are not a uniform group, so the focus of a new age plan must be on both the sickest elderly and others with less extensive help needs and health needs. The Christian People's Party is ready to contribute constructively and creatively to a new cross-political lift for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e425	There have been many good and important contributions in this matter. It is affordable for the interpellant to raise this issue, not least because it is important to raise this issue at that time, precisely because it has been announced that one should come back on a matter related to the content and quality of the care sector. This is very important, because the signals that have come after the implementation and implementation of the action plan – we have done so far, the time has passed – and much of the criticism associated with it is that we have had a housing reform and not an older reform. The action plan has been characterised by the number and structure of housing units, rather than by emphasising the content of these housing units. So this is a criticism that we have to take inward when we're going to work forward to the next goal, which then has to go on the content itself. I would also like to attend a little bit of what Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen had in his post, that they have – I was saying – reduced the municipal economy. That's not right. There has been an increase in the municipal economy every year. You must not try to present it as if the municipalities have received less funding – that is not correct – in the years we have behind us. But perhaps one of the most important things to focus on is the interaction between specialist health services and community health services. We find a lot of conflicts there. There are pre-treated patients in hospitals who, because of the lack of services outside the municipality, stay in the specialist health service, i.e. the most expensive level we have, versus that they can get an offer in the municipality where they are to be offered, with a care factor according to the patient’s need. Furthermore, there is an important discussion relating to the number of medical posts in hospitals. I hope this is taken seriously. This was reported in connection with St.prp. No 1, related to whether you should have a standard for the number of medical posts. I think it's important that we take up that debate again and make sure that the medical coverage in the nursing homes comes into place – and at a much higher level than that per. today. Furthermore, I hope that the Council of State will take into account that we should perhaps also look at the very funding system related to the care of the elderly and the care sector, when we are now looking at what is involved. When it comes to whether it can be important and right to give stronger rights to individuals and their needs for care services, you can look at what is going on in the RUG system, i.e. the Resource Utilization Group, and whether the care factor is going to trigger money in the form of an input factor. There's a lot of work that we have to do here, and I don't think there's any reason to be confused about how we can find the right interaction area, and how we can get in place to have the best level in relation to the individual patient's needs, not necessarily just that you're offered a place of care, and then you're told, at least you've got an offer. Well, it's actually the content of the offer given, which is the most important, and that it's individually adapted to the user, who has to stand in the high seat – not just that you have a place to sleep. That's not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e440	The interpellant says in its statement that one of the main challenges is to recruit enough competent personnel for the care sector. The representative of Inge Wohnung is quite right in that. But I want to add that it is a major challenge today to keep the care workers we already have. One of the biggest challenges today, as I see it, is to develop and maintain caregivers and caregivers. Many of these today have a job that is not to live with. Several have indicated that these have often been added to small parts of the job vacancy, and I want to add: mainly the jobs are related to weekend work. In order to have a living wage, these must be constantly in readiness to take additional guards so that the pay is equal to the payment for a full job. This in itself is depressing and very energy-intensive. However, it also has major implications for their professional development and opportunities to increase their skills. A relationship is that they lose the continuity of the job and the possibility of better pay and advancement. Another factor is that when employers send their employees on courses and on further training, they are often the ones with a fixed increase in the number of jobs offered. Those who are in temporary additions, and have small shares of employment, thus lag behind, also professionally. It becomes an evil circle, and doesn't seem motivating to continue in a job that then requires continuity and constantly renewing knowledge and competence for the elderly and disabled to get a good enough offer. Some of these women – because there are women we talk about – choose to take school education, as it more often leads to regular jobs with a sufficient proportion of jobs to live on, and that's good. But many disappear into other jobs, and these are the ones we need to facilitate to maintain, as we need skills at several levels in the care sector. As I see it, the creation of a further training offer for help nurses and caregivers will create an opportunity for development of skills that will both help ensure recruitment, prevent withdrawal from the profession and increase the competence of the sector. How this is to be organised is a separate question, but there are currently colleges that want that task. Other solutions may also be an option, but what is important in this context is that this continuing training offer is financed in such a way that those taking part in further training do not pay anything out of their own pocket. They do that today. One last area I would like to point out as important, both in terms of recruiting and retaining staff in the care sector, is the municipal economy. Without adequate care, we can only dream that more and better employees will be found in the care sector. Local authorities must be able to afford to employ their employees in a larger proportion of their jobs, and it is the municipalities which must follow up with further training and a training course of competence for their employees. Then there must be money for the purpose. In recent years it has been very difficult in this way, although I hear today that more people dispute it. But we now see a government betting on the municipalities, and that's good. I trust that the Minister of Health and Health will follow up this area so that we will have a care sector in the municipalities in the future, characterised by motivated and competent staff. Finally, I look forward to the message that comes in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e465	Then it's the interpellant Inge Wage who gets the floor, and this time the president has to turn the clock on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e468	Thank you for that. I think this is already the longest interpellation debate Stortinget has had. I think that's exactly what it should be, because it shows that it's a broad commitment to the challenges we're facing, and it's promising. I will not go into single posts that have been held in the debate, just point to a dilemma we face in the follow-up. The representative of the Kijlaa warned against group thinking in the care of the elderly, and it's timely. But there is also reason to warn that we use terms such as the ‘elders’ and the like. For precisely that misunderstanding, people are becoming more like and more like the older they get. It's actually the exact opposite: we're getting more and more different the older we get. It also means that individual needs are becoming more and more different. And that's the risk, of course, of all the plans and all the so-called "lifts" that they are made in an A4 format that's adapted to an average seller that doesn't exist anywhere. Therefore, it is essential that we follow up on the principle of right that has already been incorporated into the legislation, which implies that individual caregivers are required to have an individual plan adapted to their needs there and there. This is a very fundamental consideration, which we must be careful to take with us in the continuation. In brackets, note: the only desertless feature of this interview debate is the re-price of the stopwatch debate from the election campaign in Oslo, because it is a purely blind track. This is a totally fictitious problem, but it is obviously due to the fact that when individual plans are to be organised, and when individual decisions are to be taken on the rights of the individual user, it is assumed that the time required to be covered by the public must also be documented. Last but not least, the only participant in the debate who ran the issue of the 6-hour working day was, as far as I heard, the representative of Egeland, and he made an honest attempt to explain the logic behind it. But I wish the Council of State would comment on that, because it's a burning issue. In the short term, a general reform of working time – that is what the experiments are all about – will have the effect that I pointed out that we will lose 21,000 annual jobs overnight. I learned this when I conducted the first prioritisation investigation in the 1980s, because then we discovered that in the 1970s we had a dramatic increase in the number of annual work in the health sector in general, without any gain anywhere, because at the same time we made working time reforms that took away the full benefit. That's what politics is about: prioritizing. You can never get in both bag and bag. And if you want to give priority to the need for a more comfortable working situation for those in employment, you can't do anything for the elderly at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e481	I think it's been a very good debate. I am pleased that the vast majority of parties – at least as I see it – have responded and will be able to get even better care and care for the future, of better quality than is the case today. I'm glad. Then I choose to ignore that someone has said that there was nothing reassuring about what I said. I hope, however, that all parties will be involved in this effort. Of course, it's the way we want to disagree on something, and that's why we have different parties. But I also think there's a lot we can agree on in this area. And I think the posts I've heard here today, citizens too very well that we can raise together in the future. I hope all the parties will join in. Then, of course, I don't have enough time to go into everything that came up here. But I've noted it, and I'm taking it with me. I'm going to invite you to a meeting, and I want to learn more about what several representatives have mentioned. I just want to end with some of the things that were involved in the final article, and that is, of course, that we cannot treat the elderly as a group – which is quite the same. I think we all agree on that. So, of course, it's a big challenge to be able to design offers of good quality that in a way fit each and every one of those who need care. But it's both the government and the parties here in the house, as I see it, also want to try. And individual plans are absolutely crucial. They have to be made, but more importantly, I'd say they're being followed up. Then we must have both money, skills, people and many enough hands that can take care of the important job. Then I just want to say two things about the final pay. I don't think there's a contradiction here with what the government is doing now by trying to start a 6-hour work day, because it's actually so that many women in this sector are struggling out too early, and maybe for some of these it will be that if they get to work a little bit shorter, it might be helpful, while others we have to get over from full time to part time. So this is pretty complex, but I don't think this is different. And what the government is adding up to now is a limited trial and not a full roll, as the pay may have suggested. Then I would just like to say that what the Municipality of Oslo operates with regard to schedules and stopwatches, is not something that the Government is very excited about, and that is not what the State has stated that it should be. But I don't want now to go into what we might disagree about, I want to focus first of all on what we can agree on. I hope, as I said, that all parties will be involved in the important work. And thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e494	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e512	This interpellation was primarily addressed to the Prime Minister – I have understood that it is the Minister of Health and Care to respond to – because in my opinion it goes something beyond what is just the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Care for the Services. It's simply a question of the government's principle attitude and where the boundaries really go in a wide range of areas, but exemplified by two areas that I'm going to come back to, which I think show the inconsistency and a little bit of the lack of understanding of why freedom of choice is important in our society. So my question is, where do you draw the boundaries between the right of different groups to choose between private and public services and to have control in their own everyday lives? For me, these questions are primarily about it. There is an inconsistency in the signals given, and the attitude of the Government. The previous government announced through the budget – I have also said this earlier on behalf of the Right – that we want to legislate the right to freedom of choice for user-led personal assistant. This means that if you are first authorised to receive public services and assistance, you should have the opportunity to take those services out in the form of converting that time unit into a user-controlled personal assistant. That there is a need for that, there is no doubt about it. There are many municipalities today who believe that they themselves are better at defining what kind of services the individual should have than the individual is and how they should be performed. I believe that this freedom of choice should lie there, because I agree with those organisations that want user-driven personal assistance – and that is almost everyone. Disability organisations say that it is not about morbidising and clientising people with disabilities but who are fully capable of governing their own lives, or in some cases that relatives can control. It is a matter of individuals — even if they have disabilities — having confidence and, with the challenge, of being treated in the same way as everyone else, namely by the ability to rule in their own lives, who should help, and who should be the employer for them. It does something to people, and to the relationship between people, who is responsible for making demands related to how the help is given. If it is the municipality that has defined who is to provide the help, if it is the municipality that defines how it should be and that has all the responsibilities of the employer, it is perceived as a beneficiary of help, and not as one who is responsible for the person who comes in, and it does something about the interpersonal relationship. That's essentially what's important, I think, in order for weak groups to have the opportunity to choose more. It's about being able to build up the respect, the self-confidence and the self-image that comes from being able to make their own choices and have their own relationship with those who are coming and are going to give a help to maybe some of the most intimate. I record that this logic seems to be an agreement in Stortinget, in terms of user-driven personal assistance. When I took this up in the hearing last year, I found that almost all the other parties commented that they agreed on this, that it is an important right, and that this right, this respect is to be given to disabled people in our society, and possibly also to people with disabilities who have mental disabilities, which means that they cannot take care of all parts of an employer's and responsibility themselves. But then my question is, where is the logic, when the same type of mechanisms should not be allowed for people who get help at home because they have grown old? 70 pst. of those who receive home care in our country are mentally healthy. There are people who have often become disabled, to a lesser or greater extent, of old age, and who were not in their working and past lives. But they're not going to have to have this opportunity. There's an ideological distinction that says they won't have to choose their lives. Last January, the social spokesman of the Labour Party, who is now Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said: ‘It may be that Mrs. Larsen at Montebello at Oslo’s best west edge does not want a male trouser to look after herself, but she must accept that as long as the trouser can do his job.’ That's the attitude when you're older. Then you have to accept who's coming, then the personal chemistry doesn't mean anything in the meeting between two people and when whoever's coming might have to do some of the most intimate, for example. Immediate washing. I have an example that concerns a lady who told how the user choice in Oslo worked for her. She was present when there was an orientation for our local politicians, to tell us why she had chosen differently. This lady told her story with tears in her eyes. She said that she felt that 60–70 different people came to her in one year – 60–70 people! And her needs included: every day to get help with indoor washing. It's something that happens with age, and that's not all you can do to keep it properly. I think most people will understand that is anti-truth and not very pleasant. She said that she had started to grunt at every time she was going to get help, she began to wonder at people coming to help her, for she never knew who was coming. Then she got the opportunity to choose, and then she chose a small company, which has given her a stable contact all along. Then you could say that the public must be able to do it too, and I think we should have an ambition for the public. But in the meantime, we might want to make sure that we give the freedom of choice, respect and contact that exists through the fact that people can actually choose, by knowing that whoever comes into your living room knows that if you don't do the job well enough, you might be replaced. It creates a different balance in the ratio. So instead of being a client, you become a real user with power and authority. It gives you a sense of self-respect. When I bring this up, it's because I think it's so inconsistent to think the exact same thing about the relationship that's about disabled people, so to speak, to think that once you've become disabled and older, you don't need the same power and authority. I think that is a disapproval of the elderly, and I think that is wrong. I can also make all the other good arguments that we should have the opportunity to use the services of the elderly, for example. at 67 pst. of the elderly who have been given the opportunity to choose in Oslo, believe that freedom of choice is in itself a quality. That means they feel that you have confidence that they can choose, as positive. In fact, it turns out that user satisfaction is higher among those who have chosen, than among those who have not chosen, in Oslo. This is even more dramatic in Denmark, where a large survey has been carried out, and where user choice has been available in all municipalities in the country for the last three years. But first of all, my question is, what is the relationship? Why is it that older people are unable to make choices? Where does the age limit go when you have respect for that election in this government? Because it's hard to figure out. If someone now mentions the stopwatch, I just want to say that to me it doesn't matter what forms are sent out. I think people should have the freedom to choose how long they're going to spend when they get help. But it has to be determined. I have registered that the Minister has replied to the Municipality of Oslo that all individual decisions to be taken must be based on a professional basis, among others. an estimate of the time the job takes. I think it is a good idea that users are also informed of their rights – and I understand that the Council of State is not as concerned about this – in order to assess whether they have received the help they should have. This inconsistency arises in several areas. For example, the Minister for Health and Social Affairs has just given notice of tightening up the free choice of hospitals — because that is the effect at the moment you tell all health businesses that they are going to use less private ones, because there will be fewer choices available for those to choose. At the same time, the Minister of Health in this Chamber, confronted with an example, namely a new food supply that private people want to run in the old Rikshospital, says that it is positive, and that must be encouraged. And then I get even more confused. When should private offers be encouraged that you can choose? For which groups should this be encouraged? Is it true that only we who are functionally healthy, who can make the choices, and that the elderly cannot make the choices, according to this government, because they have become over 67 years old and are starting to need care? It shows a lack of consistency in relation to where the boundaries go between what should be private and public offerings and what respect you have for individuals. But the truth is that this has become an ideological resistance, that the Community way of thinking that the Government has talked so much about has been given one example that it is only those who are trade unions organized and employed in public, who can provide care. That's the way it works when you talk about how worried care is in private institutions about what it can be in public or with a private helper rather than a public assistant in the home service. Personally, I believe – and strongly believe – that a nurse, an assistant or a home caregiver will be just as good and caring whether he or she has employment in his or her own company, in another commercial company or in the public sector. This is about people, including those who do the job. It's about meeting between people, and there those who should have the help should have more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e553	User-controlled personal assistance is, as is known, regulated by the Social Services Act and is a way of organising service, practical assistance and training. It is the municipality that decides whether practical assistance is to be provided as a municipal service or organised as a user-led personal assistance. A decision in the municipality on user-led personal assistance means that the user can involve assistants for whom he or she is responsible. This allows users, as the interpellant has also pointed out, to a large extent to decide when and how the assistance is to be provided. The scheme provides a high level of user control over traditional municipal services. But I do not in any way agree with the representative Erna Solberg that there is sharp contrast or inconsistency, which was also the word that was used, between strengthening the right to user-driven personal assistance and the statement referred to by the Soria Moria Declaration on Competition Concession and Privatisation in key welfare areas. There has been a broad political consensus – and I perceive it is – that user-driven personal assistance is a positive arrangement for those who can and want to make use of it. Increased user influence on the design of municipal assistance is quite different from what most people put in competitive outsourcing and privatisation. The government assumes that increased freedom of choice and individualisation of services provide the best opportunity to meet tomorrow's communities. The best way to ensure independence and self-determination is to give users even greater power. Then, user-driven personal assistance is a good example of allowing users to control the content of the service themselves. I can also confirm that I will follow up with a consultation note that proposes strengthening the right to user-controlled personal assistance. The government believes that the services should be provided by the municipalities. However, this does not prevent municipalities from organising the service in other ways that can strengthen the influence of users on the content of services. User-led services or services offered by non-governmental organisations often provide users with good opportunities to manage the content of services. An example of user-driven enterprises is that of the Proportions of Citizen-led Personal Assistance, abbreviated to ULOBA, created by disabled persons, owned by disabled persons and operated by disabled persons. This organises practical and personal assistance to disabled people who are themselves supervisors of their personal assistants. That's good -- very good. The Government considers that competitive service is largely driven by considerations other than the interests of users. Competition in terms of economics and efficiency does not, in our view, provide the best conditions for users to influence the content of the service. In addition, I believe that the tender law is not adapted to care services. Let me use an example. In the previous debate, the representative of Wage was involved in the new scheme for rehabilitation institutions, which was the last government to set up – Erna Solberg was the Council of State and Inge Wage belongs to the same party as her – which thus decided that it should be offered to health businesses and that it should be put on the market. So what happened? Well, some rehabilitation institutions have been closed down. And who is the one standing in the queue and criticizing it? Yes, there are representatives from the Right. This is a result of – and I believe an example of – the fact that the tendering rules are not designed to deal with health and social services, because there are other things that have to be taken into account than what is used in relation to, for example, health and social services. rehabilitation institutions. We need more rehabilitation institutions, and we need more of good quality, not less. But the result of the previous government's policy is fewer rehabilitation sites, because it was so important to get it on the market. I don't think the users are very satisfied with it, but that's the concrete result. In the government’s view, placing the care services on the market contributes to a greater view of care services as goods and not as services. It does not strengthen the ability of services or users to control the content of services, and that is what is important. The government believes – and there is nothing new and nothing secret – that it is vital that everyone who needs care and care gets it, no matter how rich you are, what sex you have, how old you are or where you live in the country. But it should be, as we talked about in the previous debate, with content adapted to each and every one of good quality. I strongly believe that the Government's commitment to user-driven personal assistance does not in any way conflict with this position, because user-driven personal assistance does not mean that the services are commercialised in the same way that a competitive service does. By proposing legal rights to user-led personal assistance, the Government shows that it is fully possible to implement user-oriented solutions without the need to commercialise them at the same time. We believe that this sector is very poorly suited to tenders, to competitive outsourcing and privatisation. But we want to contribute everything we can to ensure that everyone who needs care, including the elderly, gets involved and affects far more than what is often the case today, also the content of the offer they get, whether it's at home or it's in the institution, so that we ensure that the quality is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e574	I wonder if I have to put the interpellation again next month, since the council would not answer what was the question of interpellation. The question of interpolation was the distinction between the right of different users to choose. It was not a question of tenders. It was not a question of competitive outsourcing. These are users, those who receive a service, the right to choose, and the difference between it and user-driven personal assistance. On the other hand, the Council of State chose to keep the usual bid and competitive call, which is not at all the subject of this interpellation. It's about the right to choose once you've got a service approved, and where the ideological distinction goes between being disabled before you get old, and being disabled when you get old at some point, and not realizing that there are two things that should meet with the same ideological approach and the same respect for the individual. I fully agree that neither bids nor competitive outsourcing give users greater power, but user choice does. When you as an individual get the right to choose between different suppliers, you get more power. Then you meet the person you want in your own living room, not the person that someone else has defined should come home to you if that's what you want. You can do that, and that's one of the things that's actually done, especially to many of the small companies. In that case, it does not have anything to do with the law on tenders. It has nothing to do with saving money. The arrangements the municipality has with regard to user choice, which the Council of State has contributed in several debates to trying to disqualify and frighten the consequences of, are actually schemes where the municipality pays exactly the same to the private provider, it is the same type of decision that is based, and it is the same quality requirements. In fact, there are the same types of professional groups that do the job, except that we actually feel that some nurses work as home workers in private companies in Oslo because they think it is exciting to be able to run their own company, but they are better qualified than what is really required to do that kind of work today. I want to repeat the question that this interpellation is really about: what is the difference? Where are the ideological differences between the influence of users on their own everyday lives – who comes within, and who gives practical help – when they are disabled before they become retired, and that you should not have influence if you become disabled or disabled after you have retired? What makes older people not need that respect and the ability to control their daily lives that the younger person needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e587	When the representative Solberg says she would like to repeat the question, I am tempted to say that I can repeat the answer. I think Erna Solberg very well heard what I said, and also knows what this government means. Let me first say that the ball to reconstruct that the Right or the parties that had to agree with the Right in this matter, should have more respect for older than the government parties and the parties that believe anything else, I just think we should leave. It's not about this at all! Secondly, there is full agreement – it showed the previous debate, but this is an area in which we disagree a little about the means of achieving the goal – that older people should, of course, as far as possible be able to decide about their own lives when they get old or when they need care for other reasons, whether at home or in an institution. Let's look at the reality around Norway when it comes to having something to choose from or to decide for yourself. In many of the municipalities I know, there is not much to choose from. In many small district municipalities, there are not very many private service providers standing at the door and knocking on and want to enter and help. It's a reality that's not present in many municipalities. That's the one. Let's look at the city we're now in, which is the Right Exhibition Window, and where the Right is in the driver's seat of the senior policy. It is said that now they will not hear anything more about the stopwatch debate. No, I don't have to spend a lot of time on it. I just notice that what we have seen with the standardised forms that the Municipality of Oslo chooses to govern towards its older people has shown us something. It has shown us first of all that there are quite a number of older people in this city who are not getting enough help. Several older ones have stood out. Inge Wohnning and I met in a debate in Holmgang a lady who sat in a wheelchair and had amputated one foot, and who got one hour of help during the month! In addition, it was the hour she was given help, regulated with ten minutes of bacon: ten minutes to wash, ten minutes to dry, etc. Is it empowerment for the elderly? Is there respect for the elderly, or is there disapproval of the elderly? This lady and many others in this city need much more help than they get. I might think that the Right can first clean up in my own house. I do not think this is a good way to pursue policies towards the elderly. Then I think it is very important – and the public is not perfect – that we make sure that the elderly or others who need care get the fewer people to deal with. It is not sustainable if they have 60 or 70 different – it sounds quite extreme to others – people to deal with. Therefore, it is also important to get more people to go from part-time to full-time, so that there are fewer people to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e602	The representative Erna Solberg raises a fundamental question, and fundamental questions are important. At the same time, it's important to stick to what's the main cause. The main factor in the provision of services in the welfare sector is that the quality of supply should be the best possible. That is the most important principle. That's the quality that counts. There is a great difference between user assistance on the one hand and exposure to competition and privatisation on the other. User-driven personal assistance can provide additional user assistance within a public-organised service and improve the availability. In contrast, privatisation in the welfare sector could give freedom to choose between options that are worse than those offered by users. It gives no freedom, but injustice. Competition delay will often lead to the cheapest offer being chosen, not necessarily the best. Quality costs. A range of welfare services are organised by municipalities, and when municipalities have an increased framework, quality is improved. One of the most important changes made by the red-green government in the civil government’s draft budget was to increase the framework transfers to the municipalities by DKK 3.8 billion. The quality of the services provided by municipalities has improved considerably. The Labour Party wants municipalities to provide such good services that private solutions become superfluous. Not all areas of society belong to be organised in markets. Creating welfare services markets can lead to costly and bureaucratic solutions, and not least, the quality of supply itself may become poorer. Creating a better welfare sector means creating better provision, not necessarily creating more provision. It's the public that's responsible, and it's the public that's going to take responsibility for everyone getting equal opportunities and the same good security. Therefore, the Government has stated that it opposes the launching and privatisation of important welfare areas such as education, health and care. As I see it, this does not prevent the system of user-controlled personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e619	After hearing both the Council of State's response to the interpellation and, last but not least, the representative Tegen's comments, I wonder if we have read the same interpellation. The question in the interview was as follows: ‘How will the Government draw the distinction between the right of different groups to choose between private and public offers?’ The answer given in this Chamber concerns only the principle of tendering, that it is not necessary to put off competition with the user-driven personal assistance. But that's not what the interpolation is about. Interpellence is about whether you should be able to choose between services when you get older. I fully agreed with the interpellant when, in her article, she wondered if she had to stop the interpellant again. I also have the impression that you do not answer the question that the interpellation is about. That's interesting, and I'd like to make some comments about this. The representative, Tegen, said in his statement that it is a goal that private services should become redundant. But what about the corrective thing that's so important? What about the freedom of choice for those who want this service? One thing in any case, history has shown us, and that is that monopolistic systems at least rarely lead to increased quality. The Council of State states in its statement that it is the public service to provide the services. No, the public shall ensure that the services are available. You try to make an ideological debate about this -- at least you try to make it like that -- but that's not what it's about. The debate that we are talking about here is also a debate on dignity, the dignity that lies in itself being allowed to be responsible for one's own life as you get older. What's strange is that the government party debate looks like the most important thing is which logo is at the top of the payroll, where you are employed, not who provides the services, or what kind of service you get. You talk so much about quality, but then you deviate from the quality stamp right away when you start talking about the fact that the most important thing is that you have to be a public employee to provide these services we're talking about. I see that the stopwatch debate's father has left the hall. The representative Boehler has been talking about the stopwatch problem in a number of ways. I was present during the debate to which the Council of State referred related to the level of assistance. That's exactly where we're standing at an important dividing line. The Labour Party and the other government parties are talking about having the same opportunity to offer wherever you are in the country, but at the same time they say that we cannot earmark funds for this care. We have to give the municipalities a clear framework, because it's the municipalities that know best. No, it's not the municipalities that know best what kind of help the elderly need. It's the older ones themselves who know best. When you actually take away the individual's ability to choose and sacrifice it on his own ideology's altar, I'd say it's a way of thinking we have to get away from. Throughout our lives, we will have the opportunity to choose. We're going to choose what kind of car we're going to drive, and what kind of shoes we're going to buy. Fortunately, we have also come so far that we can to some extent be allowed to choose which hospital we are going to operate on. But when we get older and get into the situation that we need care and care services, you say no, we can't choose here. It's going to be wrong that you have to be a public employee to provide that service. It's a completely meaningless situation that when we get to the age of soul and need a variety of services, we're not going to be allowed to choose for ourselves. Then the municipality will choose for us. Where is the logic that reaches us, for example, have a need for washing and cleaning in our home, and we get a decision on it in the municipality, so the most important thing is that the person providing the help is employed in the municipality. It is more important than that we ourselves should choose who should come and have access to our own home at any time. This is unacceptable. Here, there has to be a system change to get the right back where it belongs, namely to the individual himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e639	I record through this debate that the government parties and the state councils are simply afraid that people will have to decide for themselves. They have aversion to private offers. But public hands are not warmer than private hands. There are many examples of this. Of course, it is not just government that can provide good quality services. This is clearly a problematic area for the Government and the Council of State. They want freedom of choice. They proclaim freedom of choice for the individual, but only within what they define and believe are the important choices. On 8 February TV 2 had a strong report about a family with a disabled child who wanted a user-controlled personal assistant. However, they had been denied this help from the municipality. Those who depend on the help of others to cope with everyday life are very often experiencing a position of abstinence. But user-controlled personal assistance gives users control over their own lives. The user can decide for himself who to be an assistant, what to do and when and where to provide assistance. This freedom of choice is about having an influence over your own life. This is a freedom we as a function-healthy take as a matter of course. Of course, those who depend on the help of others need the same freedom, a freedom that gives control over their own lives. This freedom of choice should be enjoyed by all, including the elderly. So if it was a private health care company that could offer this assistance, the government parties and the government council would be against it. The assistance must be public, as it were. I just don't understand that. But this means a lot to the individual user. A lady named Laila Bakke from Trondheim describes her experience with the use of personal assistance as follows: «BPA has meant that I can live my life on my own premises. I can give priority to the activities that are important to me, and get profits to live. In short, it has meant the possibility of having a meaningful life, with a independence most people take as a matter of course." Another user says that she can still work thanks to this arrangement. In spring 2005, the Co-operation Board and Erna Solberg put forward a proposal to extend the target audience for user-led personal assistance so that it can also include persons who can not only assume the role of supervisor. This implies, for example: families with disabled and developmentally disabled children may receive a user-controlled personal assistant. At the same time, the Cooperative Government concluded that persons receiving practical assistance and training under the Social Services Act should be granted the right to have all or part of the service organised as user-led personal assistance. This is a new way of organising it in practice, while at the same time it will mean greater freedom of choice and increased user involvement. There are many quasi-solutions with user-driven personal assistance out in the municipalities. The reasons are often that the municipalities do not know the very foundation of this scheme, and that the municipalities do not want to let go of the roof. The municipalities often have a position that indicates that they know what is best for others based on a professional assessment, but I record that it is also based on an ideological assessment, an assessment that we can only confirm here today that the government parties and the councils also stand for. Such an attitude can actually help undermine the ability of people to know what is best for themselves, for their children or for other family members. It's taking responsibility from people for their own lives. User-controlled personal assistance is a release tool for a non-discriminatory self-directed life. I think care will be just as good if this scheme is carried out by private hands or public hands. It is the freedom of choice that I see that the Workers' Party is against. They are for an freedom of choice that they can govern themselves, which they can decide for themselves, but at the moment when the individual is to decide, they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e659	We have a long tradition in Norway for warmth, private hands in care for the disabled and the elderly. Now when you try to give the impression that the discussion is about private versus municipal hands, it's wrong. It could have been said that it is a discussion about commercial versus ideal hands. I believe that disabled people should have authority over their own lives. The full social equality and participation of disabled people is a clear objective for SV. That's why we're here to attach the necessary facilities for disabled people, and a user-driven personal assistant is such a tool for many. Even employing your assistants and being free to choose how you want to spend your hours is a prerequisite to be able to spend your life as you want. Once and for all, we have to strike a hole in the myth that disabled people should be different from us, that disabled people do not have the same needs, desires and demands for life as we do. Would some of us find ourselves in that showering and dobe visits were a rigorously rational good that we got when it fit into a tour, instead of when it fit our needs? That is why SV has fought for the right to a personal assistant, and we have also proposed a funding scheme in which expenditure beyond 20 hours a week is to be covered by the government. But this at the same time shows that when we talk about user-driven personal assistants, it's about something different than the user group that is today the recipients of from 1 to 3 hours of help at home this month. There are two completely different relationships that lie behind the so-called free user choice and the user-controlled personal assistants. I'll say a little bit about that story. The previous government wanted a weaker public sector, and one of the measures to achieve it was privatisation. Then it quickly became visible that this meant that public monopolies, which at least had some type of popular control, were replaced by private monopolies. An attempt to fix this was the so-called free user choice. The idea was not that one service provider should be replaced by another, but that there should be many players in one market. Like the Minister of Health, SV believes that the thinking behind this privatisation is significantly different from the thinking behind user-driven personal assistants. There are two fundamental differences that I would like to point out: The free choice of users is primarily about opening a service sector to a commercial market, while the idea behind the user-driven personal assistants is about just starting with the user's needs, not any company's right to make money on disabled people. The free choice of users is about reducing the population of consumers who are going to shop for accessible services, while the idea behind user-driven personal assistants was the idea of authoritative citizens. I totally disagree with the representative Erna Solberg. Users no longer gain power as consumers. They're getting renunciation. The user groups have been at the forefront of the system of user-led personal assistants, but this is not the case with regard to the free choice of user, where the fight has just been about services of sufficient scale and quality, with the right to put some political responsibility and say that this is good enough or not good enough, rather than the right to shop another provider. User-controlled personal assistants are organised by the user. Free user choice is a service that is sold to the user. The free user choice requires an order-executive organisation that, in my opinion, is bureaucratic and draws resources that should have been used directly in care whenever there are the challenges. The system of user-controlled personal assistants can be based on the responsibility of the municipality or cooperatives that ULOBA assumes. For SV, the struggle for disabled people to manage their own important lives is not the right of private individuals to take advantage of the benefits of the care sector. To put it simply and perhaps pointedly: it helps little to choose between nursing life in local government and nursing life in private, if the desire and goal are to control itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e689	The Christian People's Party wants a society with space for everyone. The aim must be for all disabled persons to have opportunities for personal development, participation and life development in line with other citizens. People with disabilities often experience that the objectives do not match reality. The Christian People's Party will therefore focus in particular on the need for better availability, better coordination of rights and increased user involvement. Today, I want to focus on increased user involvement, as the interpellant Erna Solberg also mentions. Various studies show that the system of user-led personal assistance leads to greater self-determination and higher quality of life for users. The scheme has provided a more individually designed service to users to a large extent governing themselves. Nine out of ten users are very or fairly satisfied with the scheme. Having the option of choosing your own assistants and having fewer assistants is what gets the highest score. We should also note that most municipalities experience user-driven personal assistance as a positive contribution to the municipal service provision. The question of stronger rights attaching user-driven personal assistance has been discussed and proposed by several teams ever since the scheme was legislated in 2000. A recipient is currently entitled to services, but it is the municipality that decides which services are to be offered and in which ‘packaging’. Based on the experience, we believe that people with disabilities who need extensive organisation services need to be provided with user-driven personal assistance, regardless of the municipality in which they live. Therefore, we support that this should be done as a statutory right for the individual. We have also noticed that the Minister of Health and Welfare will follow up this proposal of the 2006 State Budget from the Bondevik Government, in a consultation note with the first, which was also mentioned by the Council of State. I would like to add that the Christian People's Party is impatient on behalf of the users, and would like to hear from the Council of State about when the matter will come to Stortinget. Initially, I referred to the objective that all disabled persons should have opportunities for personal development, participation and life development in the same way as other citizens of society. The Christian People's Party believes that this must be the starting point when debating user-driven personal assistance, not whether it is public or private actors that offer this service. The aim is to ensure that citizens are offered the best. In my opinion, it does not serve users if we get a polarised debate that revolves around what you are for or against private actors. The reality is not so black and white. User-controlled personal assistance is in fact an area where free user choice is necessary for the proper functioning of the service. In the light of the good experience gained with the use of user-driven personal assistance in Kommune-Norway today, I hope that a rights attachment for the individual will not become a discussion about who is offering the service. In recent times, the Christian People's Party has tried to promote a debate on care for the elderly for the future, such as: is concerned with content, quality and manning. The same applies to user-controlled personal assistance. The debate must focus on the framework conditions. For example, you should: raise the issue of recruiting assistants, which is perceived as the most problematic side of user-led personal assistance, the funding mechanism to be applied and the scope of the service offer before granting the right to have the service organised in full or in part as user-led personal assistance. Finally, the Christian People's Party looks forward to discussing these aspects of the arrangement when the matter comes to Stortinget – hopefully as soon as possible. As I said, I'd like to hear from the Council when she thinks it can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e707	The system of user-driven personal assistance in Norway is based on the Independent Living movement in the United States. The first Independent Living Centre was established in the University City of Berkeley in 1972. The thinking behind is simple and based on the fact that each person, regardless of any disability, has the right and the right to participate in society and take responsibility for his or her own life. People with disabilities are like everyone else. There was something of the thought and the thing that held out, in the ideology. That is, they want to live in ordinary homes like all of us, they want to get rid of the disease stamp and will be seen as healthy people who need practical assistance to compensate for disability. This is about people who want to take control and responsibility in their own lives. User-driven personal assistance in Norway is usually organised in a municipal service. We heard the council say there are other ways to do this. But the individual can choose their assistants, what the assistants are going to do, and what times of the day they're going to come. The representative of Solberg is right in what she says in the interview — namely that the majority government will oppose the outsourcing and privatisation of care services. When the representative Solberg talks about freedom of choice, she assumes that there are commercial companies that are there and that people can shop services from. I think it is in this area that we are divided ideologically. Government parties do not wish to commercialise these services. We're not against private, we're not against the Church's Bymission or other non-profit institutions, or if someone organizes in proportion, as one does among the disabled. It doesn't matter at all. This is an ideology that we do not want to commercialize. The freedom of choice, which Solberg's representative is talking about in this context, is that there are commercial companies where you can choose and shop, while the system of user-driven personal assistance has a completely different starting point. It's about the disabled person being able to take control of his own life. So it's not about an aversion to private, it's about not wanting part of the elderly care or care services to be commercialised at all. That's what's the ideological difference between the government parties and the right in this case. It is also manufactured, as if one of the municipal services has no influence on how the services are performed. It almost seems that there are some strict or angry people coming home to the users and doing some services that they initially don't want. I feel that there is a great deal of understanding that there should be personal chemistry and such things that the services provided around the municipalities should work. I don't think the representation of the municipal services that we know here – that they're being forced on someone – is in line with the great enthusiasm and idealism that actually characterizes large parts of the municipal care service.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e730	Having a rhetorical debate about who is best suited to providing user-driven personal assistance, BPA, or elderly care – public or private – is subordinate to me. There is no objective in itself with private actors; it is the offer given to users, which is the most important. The loyalty of the left lies with the users, not with the municipality or with private actors. That said, it must be noted that the municipal offer given today is not good enough in many areas and that it can be stimulated by private actors complementing the municipal and state services. We have several cases where the municipal services offered are unnecessaryly expensive and not good enough – precisely in the absence of competition and satisfactory management. On the other hand, we need a clear regulatory framework that does not allow private operators to exploit the system economically. When user-controlled personal assistance is mentioned in the Solberg Interpellation, I will spend some time on this scheme. Perhaps the problem in this debate should have been: who should decide about human life? Should not individuals with different disabilities decide who is to work for themselves? Today, approx. 70 pst. of those covered by the BPA scheme, still services where the municipality is the employer. The freedom to choose who will work for themselves should count more than that the municipality should control who works for these individuals. The left believes that when the municipality sees that a user meets the requirements for user-driven personal assistance, the individual should decide which form of control to use. Today you can start a personal enterprise, choose a holding type or choose the municipality as your employer. Safety, dignity and stability around user-controlled personal assistance is an important element to be included. And when the goal is stability, it's clear that the economic compensation these assistants get should be higher than today's. Being an assistant is per. Today, a low-wage job, and when we know that the group that needs personal assistants has a great need for security and stability, today's system does not meet its objectives. Greater resources should be deployed in this area to provide good and skilled labour. The left considers that a strong public health system under democratic control is the best guarantee that the available health resources are used to create an equivalent offer with priorities on a medical basis. In addition to public health, there must be room for private actors. The left wants to contribute to the further development of today’s cooperation between private and public healthcare providers, with freedom of choice for patients in line with today’s legislation, and where public orderers become good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e745	In this debate, and also in the second interpellation, there are some ideological dividing lines in this room between the different parties, and it's very good to take such debates. The representative Nesvik, as I see now has left the hall, had a post here previously related to user-controlled personal assistant and compared it to buying shoes at the store etc., and said that we have had freedom of choice all years earlier, but when you get older, you don't have freedom of choice. That's what's the whole difference here. It's not about buying goods, it's about providing good, safe welfare services and good care, whether it's children who need it, whether you're going to a hospital, or whether it's older people who need it. Today, many municipalities around Norway have good welfare services and provide older people with a good and safe old age. We must not morbidise the care of the elderly in Norway and generalise that it looks so bad. I was in a debate up in Troms 14 days ago, where a study has been carried out among 25 municipalities, 20 of which had answered. In relation to the budget provided by the Bondevik II administration, 17 municipalities replied that they would cut the elderly care and the health of their municipality. After the Stoltenberg government provided its budget, 13 municipalities said that they would strengthen the care of the elderly on the basis of an improved economy. It is about municipalities taking responsibility for important welfare services, and it also shows that a good local economy is of great importance in the development of welfare services. We need more hands. The 10 000 new annual works mentioned will also help to reduce the number of persons required within each individual need. But there will be several providers, which will provide security and more predictability. Better local economy is our response to user-driven personal assistance, because it means that there are many who will get into these jobs, which provide good security for the elderly. Professional competence and quality are important. But we must also remember – when I hear the debate about it – that there are many ladies who have worked a long life that does not have formal education, but has great real competence, and that provides very good welfare and care services. It must not be said that those who do not have formal competence are unable to do so. Not everyone can have three and four years of college to give this piece, and it can't be that to work in the care of the elderly you have to have it. I think we will lose in that area, too, when it comes to quality and the fight for workers. Family-based care, which one is also involved in this area, may also contribute to very good user-driven assistance. But the family pattern has changed dramatically in the last ten years. From having large families where grandparents, parents and grandchildren live in the same house, one now lives on very different sides of the country, and there are many lonely ones. So it's also changed in relation to what it was before. Six hours of work day will also help many people who have a hard work day to work better on a working day and work longer in the workplace, while at the same time providing better care. This will lead to more people working around. When it comes to providing good care, we cannot face new challenges with such a little-to-do solution where it is about putting out competition or privatising and, in addition, spending at least money on care for the elderly – it should in a way provide a better offer in terms of content. At least it doesn't work in other areas. It was someone who once said we were born as originals, but dies like copies. We are individuals who have different needs at different times of life. Not least when we get older. Through strengthened local economy, more elderly people and more focus on skills and quality, we will be able to provide good and safe services to our elderly. Those who are going to get older gradually are older people who make demands on the content, who demand care, who make demands on the tasks they do. That's what kind of a volunteer, a choice, it's not where you buy the services. It's like having your children in kindergarten: you don't choose kindergarten yourself, you get to have kindergarten. It's like this when you go to primary and secondary schools and hospitals when you're going to be born: it's not where you're going, but the quality of the offer you get that's important. This also applies in the care of the elderly. Enhanced local economy contributes to improved quality and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e766	I did not intend to speak in this debate, but after hearing and sitting I have registered that it is complete derailment. Erna Solberg was up there and asked for a clear answer to the differences in what would be offered to younger and older people who needed help at home. That answer has been a little bit of an answer. Most of the debate has been about user-driven assistance. The rest have been about a whole lot of other things, but very little about what individuals should get from help in their own homes. I think it's important that we sit down and start thinking about what it's like the day you need help. Very many older people dare not ask for help. They worry about who's going to come home to them, and if you're going to be in the situation that it keeps coming new without having any influence on it itself, it's simply unworthy and scary for the individual. When you get so old that you need help, it's a threshold to hesitate to ask someone to come home, and it's clear that if you're not satisfied with the help, it's much easier to complain and ask for something new if it's not the municipality's own employees who come home to them. It is not as easy to complain to the provider of services. We have to think about how each one feels, and I can't see any difference between a 60-year-old who is disabled and needs help, and a 70-year-old in this regard. We must have a forward-looking policy that takes care of users first and foremost, and that is not based on having as many municipal employees as possible. There is no difference between a nurse or a maid employed in the public sector and one who runs his own small business. The scepticism and distrust shown by government parties against private practitioners is simply shameful. It's the same kind of people who work, it's the same kind of people who want to do good services, but someone chooses, and there's nothing wrong with it, starting their own little business. That's a plus. It gives an extra ‘drive’ to be able to do something and work for their own business. Maybe they have a keen, special desire to do the service extra good to show how good they are. Everyone gets paid to go to work. They also get those who work in public. Everyone does a job to get an income. The few run this by pure charity. I think we're going to be equal, and have faith that the private will do a job as good as government employees. And then we have to start focusing on the individual's right to choose, to be able to choose a person that they want to come home. I'm talking to older people who are afraid when it rings the door, and they're afraid of who's coming. They do not want to complain. But I wish this debate had been about what it was really going to be about: why does any difference between younger and older people in getting the right to choose for themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e777	The Council of State chose to misjudge its response with incorporated rhetoric from the election campaign. It went to shopping, competition, offers and stopwatches. But she was not close to answering what was the challenge of the interpellation. Whoever was nearby was the representative of the government parties from SV. He said there was a clear difference between the disabled on the one hand and the elderly who received home help and assistance at home on the other. That was an honest answer, but I think he's wrong. ‘Citizen-led personal assistance’ selects ULOBA to call its service. Why do they do that? Because they believe that even the word ‘user’ is discriminatory, because it creates an impression of a dependency where the user is dependent on others. But the whole point is to turn this on your head. The whole point is to say that one should become the head of his own life. Then a citizen, and then he takes responsibility for himself in his situation. It's about respect, and it's about independence. Then one has to get rid of the myth that one is dated as a human being, that when one is 67, these needs disappear, then one suddenly is a passive elderly person sitting at home waiting for help, and the help calls at the door when the help seems right to come. But this is not the case with the elderly. The elderly do not sit at home and wait – they are active, they have an independent life, they have their goals. They're not necessarily as ambitious as they were a few years ago, but they're perhaps even more important. Then it's just about meeting this challenge of being willing to take a debate about how we organize these services in such a way that older people get the same independence, the same respect, and get to take power in their own lives, which we all in this room talk about being a matter of course for people with disabilities. There should be no difference here. But this does not respond to the Government. So they come up with these commonly incorporated concepts of tendering, putting out competition and stopping time. It would now be okay if one had been principled even when it was about these questions. But neither is the Council of State. The Council of State turns to the great heights when she describes why the Government is so opposed to tenders for care, health and services to persons in need of assistance in these areas, but there is every reason to expect that the Government will now come up with a phasing-out plan for the use of drug treatment and child protection. For the use of tenders, the rule is within the two areas, in terms of what is offered to the people among us who are perhaps the most vulnerable, the weakest people. However, I have not heard a single representative of the government parties make any proposal for a decommissioning plan regarding the use of private individuals in these areas. This is about not wanting to have a debate about quality, content and respect for users, citizens, in public, but one still wants to have a debate about quantity and economy, because it is a debate that seems to be best suited to the ideological starting point that one has. This is not about commercial or non-commercial actors. When you hear the answers, it is quite obvious that this is the case, whether the person providing the service is an employee or self-employed person, or whether he or she has an influence on his or her own working situation. Then the council also comes to the conclusion that it is not that this is an offer that exists throughout the country, this is just an Oslo phenomenon, and that there are no providers around it. But that's wrong. There are providers around it, some nurses who set up their own independent businesses and offer offers. I expect that when the government is going to travel around and learn in this country, it is precisely because they are going to learn, and not to confirm what they themselves mean in advance. Then I would recommend the Council of State to travel to Eide Municipality, a small district municipality, and learn that this is an offer that is actually available throughout the country, not just in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e790	In the previous interpellation debate in today’s meeting, the Council of State was unorthodox and attentive. It is a characteristic that fits poorly in her response and posts in this interpellation debate. I'm willing to admit good margins for political rhetoric, both at Holmgang, as the council of state pointed out, and in election campaigns, but I think it'll be quite unrelenting when a councillor from Stortinget's pulpit pronounces himself against better knowledge. The Council of State claimed that the Municipality of Oslo had established standardised forms. The councils know very well that they have been developed by the Municipalities' Central Association, and it is at least not dominated by the Right, to put it in an understatement. She knows that this is used in a large, large number of Norwegian municipalities, and then it is unacceptable that the council at Stortinget's pulpit speaks out in this way. So until that matter is involved. The representative of Skjäla used the word "ideology" repeatedly in his post and said that this is an ideological question. Yes, it's quite obvious. Now, socialism in most parts of the world has ended up on the scrappowder of history. It has been there for many years, and no one has missed it. But here there is obviously a remainder of ideology in the sense of the word that Karl Marx used it originally, false consciousness. This inflated rhetoric about commercial companies that people can shop about, and the difference between commercial and non-profit actors is simply a real-life escape. All primary health services in this country are based on private doctors performing the service commercially, as a single enterprise, in the real world. The entire Norwegian healthcare service would collapse if you were to take this ideology seriously. Now you're rarely going to take ideological coercion thoughts seriously, because they're really meant for internal construction and have very little real estate to order. But I would like to expand the challenge that the interpellant has posed in the interpellant, because this is not just about freedom of choice, that is, the right of users to choose between several options, whether in the care of the elderly or elsewhere. It is also about users’ access to services at all — for lack of capacity. I asked the Council of State a question in the Question Time last Wednesday about child and youth psychiatry, where today there is an average waiting time of 80 days. We agreed that it is an unacceptable long wait. For those who know a little bit about statistics, they know that when the average is 80 days, there are a lot of users waiting a lot longer than 80 days. In this sector, it means that too many users end up with coercive treatment, of which we have an adventurous amount in the Norwegian health system, because they do not receive an offer at the time when they could have made use of the offer. You get it too late. But the Council of State was not willing to make the slightest concession and did not want to deviate from the ideological principles of the Soria Moria Declaration, by recommending health companies – instead of warning them – to enter into agreements with private operators in this area. For users, the ideological grills in this area are completely indifferent – probably. What users are busy about is getting a qualitatively good offer at the time it can do the good. Then a reference to the Soria Moria statement for most users is a poor substitute for a reference to a medical specialist – to put it on the head. To the extent that there is a real ideological divide in this, the dividing line simply determines whether the needs of the users are to be centered or whether there is a distinction between the public and the private that is to be at the centre, or the membership of the Trade Union, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e805	This inter-pelling debate has shown that there is no strong desire to try to respond to the main challenge of the interpellation, namely where the boundaries, given the reasons given by the government parties for what users should be given the opportunity to choose, really go. In fact, it's proven a great deal of inconsistency, and sometimes it also seems like there's some degree of inconsistency. I'm recording that the Kjellerlaa from the Center Party believes that only it's not commercial, it's okay. I met one from the commercial assistance services yesterday, a man some 40 years old who started his own company to help elderly people in Sandefjord with various services, washing – a typical home help service – or snow mowing yesterday was a big day with a lot of activity. There was a man who was burning for the elderly, who had a background like cook and flower decorator, who wanted to find his niche, and who was glad that there would be user choice in the Sandefjord municipality from the fall of. That's the commercial offer. Of course, more people want to do the same thing, but that's what's denied. I think that's going to be wrong. These are people with commitment, people who want to start up, and there are many who will do it around. So it is that SV believes this is wrong, and you have some fairy tale of why we are concerned about this. It's absolutely right that we're ideologically concerned about this from the Right. We're concerned about it because we have a human vision that is about everyone being authoritative. Until they are unable to make their own choices, they shall have the opportunity to do so. For us, it's important, because it does something to people when you're deprived of the ability to control and choose in your own life. I think that is an important ideological justification, and I think that everyone should agree. Then I have to say that just the last post from Inge Wage shows how inconsistent the Government is. During the last week's Questionnaire, the same minister was able to respond by encouraging more freedom of choice and private offerings for women born to birth, but to be against more freedom of choice or better exploitation of private offers for young people who are in line for psychiatric help. Then maybe there's a reason why we'll soon get answers to where the principal lines go. I'm for everyone's freedom of choice, I'm for there's a lot of offers, and I'm for us to use the capacities we have, but it's a little weird when functionally healthy, birthing women are encouraged by a government council, while mentally affected young people actually have to live with the fact that you can't use other alternatives. It says something about the fact that what is the basis of the actual interpellation, namely the inconsistency of the Government's position on different issues in this area, is striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e818	I first feel the need to say that a claim is not true even if it is repeated many times, as the representative Solberg and other representatives from the Right have done in this debate, when they say that the Government is inconsistent in these matters. Let me say a few words about user-driven personal assistance, which is a very good thing, which I perceive is a broad consensus on. Here we are now working on a consultation note to go out to summer, and we're going to propose to the Storting in the harvest session, so that it can be dealt with then. So that's what we agree on and we think we're done. So the representative of Solberg knows very well that with regard to the size of the place that commercial operators should have in the care and care sector, there is a disagreement between the previous and the current government. There's no reason to hide. That is why it is also the case that Erna Solberg was a member of the government until a very short time ago – who also bears responsibility for where we stand, for example. in psychiatry, where no very clear, concrete action was seen – told health care companies to choose private and commercial hospitals almost in any case, even though there was a free capacity in the public sector. This government has informed our healthcare companies that they should primarily use the available capacity of the public sector. Then, of course, we have private actors in the healthcare community that we are also in favour of, and that is a useful supplement. It's not like we're against every private actor in this area, but it can't be our main concern, at least if we don't think it's right to secure everyone in this country, regardless of background and economy, etc., a good and complete offer. Nor do I think that we are accused of not being concerned with the dignity of the elderly or the respect for the elderly. The previous debate showed something different, and although we still disagree in some areas, there is a lot we can agree on when it comes to being able to provide the elderly and others who need care, a much better situation than is the case today. We're not afraid the elderly will decide for themselves. I believe it is absolutely essential that older people decide more for themselves. But then it's also like if we're going to get this done, we have to have more hands that can reach out to everyone, whether you live on Utzira or on Tynset, or where it is now. It is a goal that it should be as few as possible to deal with, and it is important for this government that it is not the wallet to decide which offers to receive. The good service comes from the interaction between those in need of help and those in need of help. Therefore, it is very important that older people, as well as trying to facilitate their being less able to deal with, can also be allowed to participate and determine the content of the service they actually receive. And it doesn't always happen in this municipality, like, for example, Right-hand controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e836	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e850	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e859	The review of issues related to the construction of wind power plants in Norway today is based on a private proposal by four representatives of the Progress Party. Now this proposal does not address the overall issue of the very worrying power balance in Norway, which suggests that over three to four years we will have a gap between production and consumption corresponding to 10 pst. of our consumption in a year of normal rainfall. Yes, Statnett has estimated the deficit already in 2008, provided for the normal year, to be up to 10 TWh. This means that our supply situation is becoming difficult to deal with. Therefore, any matter relating to the possible production of energy and, to the extent that it is also saving measures and reducing consumption is important. In this way, it is important that the Storting is invited to debate aspects of our wind power generation. But it is also so that a so-called Document No. 8 proposals are not suitable for all aspects of such a case in a sufficiently comprehensive way. We need more power generation in Norway, and we have rich natural resources that can give us the strength we need if we are to use our knowledge and competence to find solutions that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions There is an overall committee that expresses in the nomination that we have a great potential to exploit new and renewable energy sources, where environmentally friendly wind power is one of several possibilities. Yes, the Committee says: ‘It is therefore reasonable to increase the development of environmentally friendly wind power and to ensure good regional and national coordination of wind power generation through the concession system.’ No batches, except the Advance Party, will support the proposal for an overall plan for the deployment of wind turbines in Norway. The majority believe that this will lead to very extensive investigations. Moreover, the majority do not believe that in a work on an overall plan, one could go deep enough to reveal all the necessary issues and factors that may affect each wind power project. Such a plan will therefore have little real value. We, who belong to the majority of the United Kingdom, believe that it is through the concession procedure, through thorough impact assessments on individual cases, weighing all the necessary considerations, the use of adopted instruments, hearings, thematic conflict assessments and improved guidelines, that a person can obtain complete decisions. The construction of wind power plants can in very many cases be conflicted with respect to the natural environment, biodiversity, nature types, outdoors, landscapes, land use, cultural heritage, business – and not least for the tourism industry. The majority have therefore asked the Ministry of the Environment and other departments involved in their work on guidelines for the planning and location of wind turbines to assess a number of factors, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t inclusion of travel and other relevant business activities in criteriabased landscape values in light of the role of the Convention on Landscape Protection in county and/or regional plans, including one. may assess requirements for the extent of such planned concentration of major wind turbines located at locations without significant environmental and interest conflicts, instead of very many small scattered installations along large coastal areas; We also focus on how to involve interest groups, developers and businesses in regulatory work. We want to facilitate ways of bringing the different interests together so that one can, if possible, provide solutions that can be acceptable to the stakeholders. I believe that this will enable us to continue developing more wind power and exploit the great opportunities that this offers for environmentally friendly power generation. Now, of course, the minority in the Committee, the Progress Party, will present its position itself. I must nevertheless say that I find the party's position in connection with their overall plan-proposal unclear, when they say in their comments: ‘These members consider it fully possible to establish such a level at an overall level of detail, without having to be as detailed and comprehensive as the overall plan of hydropower.’ And then it says, ‘At the same time, these members consider that when the majority does not dare to expose wind power projects to a similar global assessment to hydropower projects, discrimination is evidenced.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e909	The size today gives green light for still large-scale expansion of wind power without the establishment of a proper national overall plan. That's what I'm worried about. But at the same time, it illustrates the discrimination of the Stortinge in favour of wind power. The Environment tab is raised high when discussing hydropower and gas power, and a number of restrictions and overall plans are put in place. But the environmental tab is hidden in a hook when discussing wind power. The consequences of such an error trail can be rapid, both in terms of energy policy and in terms of environmental policy. The scope of wind power projects is significant. 22 wind power projects are already in operation or have been granted a concession. In addition, a total of 71 wind power projects are for concessional or pre-announced to NVE. It equals at least 3 360 windmills along the coast. And the industry is still warning about new projects. Let me therefore stress that a comprehensive plan of wind power, if adopted, will not prevent the achievement of the goal of the Stortinget already adopted, of 3 TWh wind power by 2010. We've already achieved that goal with today's given concessions. But an overall plan will help us not to go wild in a lot of single requests and single concessions in the windmill forest that is growing up as a consequence. I think it's important to listen to the grassroots. I see that there are a number of people's reactions to wind turbines along the coast. Regional and local politicians both from the government parties and from the opposition are calling for an overall plan. The last out now was the annual meeting in Finnmark Left. But I'm recording that the distance is far from Stortinget to the grassroots. But public opinion is responding to today's political course, and rightly so. The Directorate for Nature Management and the Riksantikvar has recently evaluated 52 planned wind power projects. They concluded that there are major or very large environmental conflicts in 29 of these projects. The environmental protection organisations are therefore concerned about large-scale state-subsidised operations in untouched areas, and tourism is afraid of tourism. An example of this is in the Haugesunds Avis of March 1st this year. You can read: ‘Norwegian Hydro and Haugaland Kraft wish to remove a large forest area in Carmøyheien to provide better space for the planned wind farm.’ There is no politician going out and taking a strong distance from this. Elsewhere we see 150 - meter - high windmills being built along the coastline, in pristine natural areas and with the blessing of politicians. At the same time, it is interesting to reflect a little over the fight the government has warned against those who dare to build themselves a cottage in this beach zone. Then you're out on thin ice. So maybe future cabin fields have to be designed as small windmills to be approved? The majority of the population will claim that detailed sub-plans meet the environmental challenges and are shown, among other things. to the concession treatment. Yes, I understand the argument, and I can partially accept it, but the problem is that today's system is not working properly. Had it done, we wouldn't have seen all the conflicts we see now. I don't understand why it's curative and completely unproblematic to encourage the states to make stately plans, while it's bureaucratic and impossible to take the stately plans and coordinate them at a national level. It tastes most of the evil will. The problem is that the state plans do not take sufficient account of the overall responsibility of Statnett for investments in the network, and they do not coordinate cross-border work, as stated by representatives of the tourism industry when they met the committee a few weeks ago. They see the whole coast as they travel up and down with the Hurtigruten. The state politicians do not, and therefore a national plan would be good. Perhaps this is just a typical sign of Norwegian energy and environmental policies in practice. We don't have a national energy plan. The government parties even voted against the proposal of the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition to prepare one. We figure out the objectives of politically correct measures such as wind power and district heating, but we omit measures for gas power and hydropower. The government subsidizes wind power willingly away, but says it does not have tools to trigger investment in gas power plants. Managing Director Storgearde i Sunnfjord Energie did well to put things in the right place when he said to NRK Sogn and Fjordane on 21 December last year that wind power is unprofitable, but ‘this is politically determined, it is the prevailing energy policy in the Kingdom today that the most expensive option is to be lifted’. Probably that's exactly what we're seeing the contours of now. The government has messed up the green certificate scheme. Thus, future investment in wind power will take place through additional State subsidies, and this will be based on bureaucratic desktop exercises, stressing the need for an overall plan even more. The government is putting away market-based solutions that green certificates would secure. They will lie and dust down alongside the desire for an overall plan for wind power. Both are good tools both in energy policy and in environmental policy, but the Government's toolbox is per. Today is as well hidden as the green certificates. I take this up with me the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e942	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e945	First of all, the right does not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party on the matter we are now considering. I think that only the words 'total plan' should have made the Progress Party take a little better time in the closet before they promoted this proposal. If you have some knowledge of bureaucracy and how many case handlers who have been in the process of 'total plan' for decades, you should have thought more about whether it was sensible to promote this proposal – especially in a situation where we know that we have instruments, that we have institutions, yes that we have 'being' enough in Norway today that also deals with questions about wind turbines, where all conceivable considerations are taken care of – and I think they are safeguarded in a reassuring way. Against this background, the Right does not want to support this proposal, which will only delight those who are busy getting even more hands to work, whether it is in some directorate or in some county building around Norway. Furthermore, the right does not depend on the establishment of county councils, just to add them. The energy policy debate we've been going on in Norway these days is so interesting. The rapporteur was well aware of the Committee's consideration of this matter. We are now getting on a continuous bond of energy policy issues to deal with in this room. What is the greatest reason to ask questions in our energy policy is how it is possible that Norway, as an energy-producing energy-producing energy-producing energy-producing energy-producing energy-producing power, has faced a situation in which we have energy shortages, and where we almost do not know how to deal with the crises that will emerge in the future. We see that we've faced a situation here at home where in a dry year we can have a gap of up to 50 TWh, where the question of how to cover our energy needs is unresolved. I have not seen that the government has put forward any sort of proposal for a solution to how we are going to get a satisfactory and safe detection of what is a matter approaching a crisis. I think, as I said, that things about windmills and wind farms are being treated satisfactorily today. The necessary considerations are taken into account in the individual applications. But all those who are concerned with energy policy, and in particular green renewable energy, have now seen that the government has also elegantly set aside the green certification system. As we see the consequences of this, we will have a side effect by showing fewer types of applications for either wind farm or other types of renewable energy in Norway. In this way, we have seen that the new government has chosen the energy policy issues and painted itself into a corner – a corner where they cannot indicate the exit themselves. And I'm afraid that this might end up with others having to help them out of the corner they've painted themselves into. Just to finish, we know that a no to the central Norway gas power plant can be solved by building 800 100-200-metre-high wind turbines. I'm not sure that's the way we have to move. On the contrary, we must warn against such a system. But getting this solved by some sort of overall plan for wind turbines in Norway is not the answer. What is needed is political initiative and decisions. There I think we have far more to discuss with the Progress Party than getting more hands at work in Norwegian county buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e956	Wind power is a renewable resource that our country is blessed with having great potential to exploit in rich monns. It is a renewable resource that can provide the basis for eternal coastal value creation, where the large wind resources are located. Wind power also knows that it is one of the energy sources that do not contribute to the production of greenhouse gases that destroy the climate on earth, as we see increasingly. I notice that there is still an interest that the Progress Party chooses not to place crucial emphasis on when designing its energy policy. When we develop our energy policy, we are concerned that it will be sustainable in the long term, and then wind power is an important element precisely because it does not lead to climate change. Wind power has great potential. Much of what has happened in the last five years is very happy. The size set up ambitions and goals that we're going to over-achieve, and that's good. We've already applied for 3 TWh wind power, and there's plans for up to 30 TWh. I don't think all of these plans are being realized. Those who have been with me for as long as I did will remember the time it was that if you were at a seminar to discuss energy, you would be lucky if there was a lady who at the end of the day got 3 minutes to say something about all the new renewable energy sources together. Now we have come to the point that this is where the great potentials are discussed. Nevertheless, it must be said that in a Nordic context Norway is not a leading country in this area. We know that Denmark has developed a wind turbine industry that has given one of their largest exports. It hasn't happened by chance. This has been done by a systematic effort over decades by the Danish state, which has built an industry they are today very proud of and happy to show. In Sweden, they have a bioenergy industry that is such that they have more bioenergy than hydropower and nuclear power. And in the Nordic energy market, bioenergy today accounts for more than hydropower. The new renewable energy sources are no longer a trifle. These are big, heavy issues that are crucial for our environmentally friendly energy supply in the future. But we're still there that if you're going to invest in wind power in the Nordic region, it's more profitable to do it in a Swedish forest than on the Norwegian coast. It is our responsibility that this should no longer be the case. The Progress Party has taken up a proposal for an overall plan. I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think wind power is the same as hydropower. There's a big difference between water and wind. Hydropower involves irreversible interference in nature. A windmill can be brought back after 20 years, and you can bring nature back without being difficult. The wind resource is not the same as a water fall resource and cannot be assessed the same. Thus, wind will not represent any irreversible interference in nature, even if we are going to take seriously the conflicts we can have as a result of wind power development. The Directorate for Nature Management and the Riksantikvar has produced the thematic conflict assessments, and they reveal first and foremost the following: it is possible to dramatically reduce the level of conflict in most of the cases of adaptation, adaptation and consideration. I think it is very possible to achieve a reasonable coexistence between travel life, outdoor life, natural diversity and wind power along the coast. And it's my goal that we get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e974	The Christian People's Party believes it is important to increase energy production based on new renewable sources. That is why, among other things, we are betting. on the development of wind power. Wind power is clean energy without emissions in service. Norway has, as you know, good natural conditions for wind power. The development of wind power is an important part of the work on more renewable energy. Norway aims to expand 3 TWh wind power in Norway by 2010. Consent for nearly 3 TWh has already been granted and several notifications and applications for additional wind turbines are available. It's positive. But we need to ensure that wind power generation is sustainable. Wind power plants are land-intensive and may conflict with other land and social interests. The most common conflicts we see today concern the relationship with reindeer, defence, travel and the environment. The main environmental impacts will be related to cultural memories and environments, landscape impacts, the reduction of non-interventional natural areas and biodiversity. Many of the plans for expansion we see today have such potential for conflict that they will not be built. It is therefore essential that we use thematic conflict assessments for planned wind turbines and other guidelines. All relevant bodies must be brought in and heard when wind power plants are planned to be built. Consequences, consultations and thematic conflict assessments for each project must be carried out during the concession procedure. Only then can we draw the necessary conclusions on suitability and conflict potential. Only then can we ensure that development takes place in a sustainable way. The Christian People's Party wants coordination so that there won't be a lot of small facilities along the whole coast. There are many along the coast who fear. Many coastal installations will conflict with the environment and cultural memories and contribute little to total energy production. Some counties have developed sub-plans for wind power, thereby providing a more comprehensive plan for the use of the district areas. The Christian People's Party, like the majority, does not want an overall plan. An overall plan will not be able to shed enough light on each project. We will not then be able to identify the necessary issues and factors that may affect individual wind power generation. As the setting indicates, such a plan will then have a small real value. It will be time- and cost-intensive. It will also be out of date before it is finished, as wind power technology is in such a great development. In sum, the most likely thing would be to stop wind power generation in Norway, and we do not want that. From the comments of the Progress Party, it may seem that their objective is precisely to promote a proposal for a comprehensive plan. All parties outside the Progress Party have made a number of proposals that we ask the Ministry of the Environment to consider, now that guidelines and the location of wind power plants are being developed. These measures are just about to ensure coordination and that all relevant bodies are heard. These points aim to include tourism and other relevant activities in the criteria, not to spread wind turbines along large coastal areas and to look at the role of county and regional plans, including: may assess the requirements relating to the scope of such plans. The Ministry is also asked to look at different solutions following a ‘co-existence model’ to find good solutions that all parties can accept. In addition, the majority of the Committee wishes to identify the need for offshore wind power development. During the committee hearing, it was found that if we want to stop wind power generation in Norway, we can put in place an overall national plan, or we can cancel the system of electricity certificates. On Monday, the government announced that it is doing just that – canceling green certificates. The scheme of electricity certificates would grant new renewable energy producers a premium of 15 to 20 cents at the top of the power sale. Now, when the government says no to green certificates, it also refuses to increase the investment in new renewable energy. Many wind farms won't pay off without electricity certificates. The Land Association of Energy Enterprises, EBL, confirms that many projects will now be scrapped. It will increase both the uncertainty and the risk of price rise, says EBL. For the Christian People's Party, who wants to invest in more renewable energy, this was a very disappointing decision by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e995	I'll start by saying that I hope the president notes that I'm wearing my tie today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1000	The President has noted this with great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1006	I assumed that. This proposal comes from the Progress Party. I have now been sitting here for four to five months following the national energy debate, and it is with some wonder that I record that this party has promoted such a proposal. What you have as your main line is that all expansion is good expansion, whether it comes from one or the other energy source. Even the possibility of nuclear power in Norway is being ventilated. The second is that the overall objective, regardless of environmental costs, is balance in the energy sector, i.e. power balance. That's important enough, but I sometimes think you're dosed incorrectly, for example. states that it is uncertain whether CO2 emissions as a result of gas power generation have negative effects at all. The second main line one has in some ways followed, not just here, but otherwise, is the fight against red tape, the fight against forms fields, and the freest possibility of making the improvements that can be made. When it comes to wind power, the Progress Party considers it necessary to propose an overall plan for wind power generation, which will, after all, put an end to what is of short-term development potential in this sector in Norway. I find that very strange. There is at least one question that I will not be able to hear together with what has been the party's setting otherwise. I want to quote a little bit from the Committee's position, in relation to why we don't think an overall plan for wind power is a good idea. It says: ‘The majority point to the fact that during committee hearings an overall plan for wind power on the one hand would lead to a sharp increase in the investigation requirements for builders, while at the same time an overall plan could not go deep enough to reveal all the necessary problems and factors that could affect the individual wind power location, and that such a plan would thus have little real value. It was claimed that one could first draw the necessary conclusions on the potential and suitability of conflicts through impact assessments for each project.’ Those who are well aware of this are saying that an overall plan is unnecessary and is likely to be a scarcely suitable instrument for the management of this sector. The centre party is of the opinion that we have governance mechanisms in the Norwegian community that are more than adequate to overcome the conflicts surrounding the individual wind power project. Some claim that there is a Norwegian wind power potential of between 20 and 30 TWh. I'm not of that opinion. We've now realized at the base of 1 TWh. There are given concessions of about 3 TWh. The level of conflict is rising. I think that when you see the fasit in a few years, the total Norwegian wind power development will be significantly below both 20 and 30 TWh. Until then, the level of conflict will be too high. In this case, the only way to achieve this will be to develop technology in such a way as to move wind power plants into the sea – into the open sea. Nor is there any doubt that wind power could be a significant and good addition to the Norwegian energy supply. It's environmentally friendly. It gives us opportunities to come up with new technology, and then it's wrong at the moment you're at, you're going to go in and take some bureaucratic decision in the Storting in Norway that's going to stop the further development in this area. I want to end by saying: Solvik-Olsen said we had voted down the proposal for an overall energy plan. I think that, on the other hand, was a proposal that should have gone further. I think that, for good reason, we could go into and nationally look at how we could clarify strategies, the level of ambition and the way in which we can balance Norwegian energy production. It might also, in favour, have calmed the debate that characterises the country today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1033	The left has been and must be a driver for increased clean energy production. We believe that wind power generation can be an important part of such a strategy. We need new power in Norway. Pure power, saving and more efficient use of energy are the best solutions. There is a great deal of interest in wind power today. Only in Rogaland, my home country, there are now projects of 3 TWh, the same as the national objective. That means that for the country as a whole, we can achieve the goals that are set, and more than that. But the great interest in wind power also shows that there is a strong need to sort, for some of the projects that have been proposed today, there are so many conflicts that they should have no. Therefore, it takes tools to sort, so that you can clarify which projects you want, and which ones you don't want. The left considers it important to build on today’s national instruments, including: the national conflict assessments. But we also see the need to get new tools to see things in a larger context. We have come to the conclusion that the national plan is not the right one. This will mean stopping wind power for several years, and in addition, it will not be possible to make as thorough an assessment as it would be necessary for such plans to be of value. I refer you here to the rapporteur's statement. On the other hand, we believe that regional plans can be a good tool for such a review that we believe needs to be done, as well as the key instruments. We hope that the department can stimulate such plans. In Rogaland, full political support has now been given to the creation of a stately plan, among other things. has been the proponent of the Right County Rapporteur to do so. So the left is positive about wind power, but we see some projects that are not only local but also national conflicts associated with them. In this context, I refer to the commitment of the tourism industry, which points out that there is a need to clarify that some areas should not be used for wind power generation. In this context, the Committee's consideration has resulted in only the Progress Party supporting the proposal for a national plan. Yesterday, the Energy and Environment Committee visited a delegation from the Czech Republic. They told me that they were working to assess the migration of villages to free up lignite resources. It says a little about the differences and the opportunities different countries have in this area. We in Norway are in a very favourable situation. At the bottom we have hydropower and large oil and gas resources, and now we are discussing where to place wind turbines – and that is important. The government is against a national plan for wind power. Now, in recent days, we have also learned that one has no strong plan to increase the production of clean energy. A national plan for wind power or no for green certificates has the same effect, namely the cessation of new projects. We note that the red-green government's commitment to green energy is completely blue. The offensive that is promised in the Soria Moria Declaration to increase the production of clean energy, it seems to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1050	The proposers believe that an overall plan for the construction of wind power plants in Norway should be drawn up and show, inter alia, that: to the total hydropower plan. The question of an overall plan for wind power has been raised several times earlier in Stortinget, and was rejected. The government is committed to increasing the development of environmentally friendly wind power. It's not like the representative Kvassheim says, that the government doesn't have a plan for how to get us to produce environmentally friendly energy. What the government has said no to is a common certificate market with Sweden. It appears from the Soria Moria Declaration that through the concession system, good regional and national coordination of wind power development is to be ensured. We are now in the process of establishing a system of thematic conflict assessments of wind power projects and developing guidelines for wind planning and localisation. The aim of thematic conflict assessments is to facilitate a more comprehensive assessment of the impact of planned wind farms, where both notified and concession-requested projects can be seen in the context. The guidelines shall include, inter alia: explain the factors to be taken into account when locating wind power plants. We will also stimulate local and regional levels to actively assess suitable areas for wind energy purposes in overall spatial plans. The Directorate for Nature Management, the Riksantikvaren, Rein driftsverwaltungen and Defence Building have recently completed the thematic conflict assessments of 67 notified and concession-enhanced wind power projects. These projects have been assessed in relation to impacts on landscapes, the cultural environment, the natural environment, reindeer management and defence installations. Last week, the NVE sent out all these conflict assessments on a broad consultation round to, among others. municipalities, counties, counties, interest groups, etc. concerned. The consultation gives all interested parties the opportunity to comment on all wind power projects in the context and from a regional perspective. The consultation will also allow for the capture of travel life considerations, which were not included as a separate theme in the thematic conflict assessments. The consultation is in addition to the general consultations on prior notifications, impact assessments and concession requests for each project. Such treatment is governed by the Energy Act and the Planning and Building Act. Thematic conflict assessments, together with, inter alia: impact assessments and consultation opinions will form part of the basis for the NVE’s concession treatment of the projects. At the same time, there is work to develop guidelines for the localisation and planning of wind power projects. This work is managed by the Ministry of the Environment in close cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy and other departments concerned. The Government will now follow up the opinions of the Committee in the wording relating to these guidelines. The same applies to the comments on the identification of suitable areas for offshore wind power development. It is important for me to stress that the thematic conflict assessments and guidelines are in addition to extensive treatment under the Energy Act and the Planning and Building Act. For major wind power projects, there is a requirement for impact assessment involving the involvement of the relevant authorities centrally, locally and stakeholders and may affect the potential impact that needs to be investigated in order to decide on the project. In this way, all important aspects of the development plans are highlighted. The normal processing time for wind power projects, from prior notification to final decision, is today from two to three years. There is therefore no basis for claiming that wind power generation is not already subject to a very thorough procedure. Creating an overall plan for wind power would be very resource-intensive. If the establishment of an overall wind power development plan were to be of real value in relation to the assessment of appropriate development sites, detailed wind measurements had to be made on the terrain. Such wind mapping requires the setting of a very large number of coastal wind-measuring towers. The costs of such wind measurements are substantial. In addition to ensuring wind data for a very large number of locations, capacity and transmission costs from installations had to be calculated and infrastructure assessments, such as roads, had to be carried out. Only after this work was completed could work be started on assessing the environmental impact and other important societal considerations. The situation was significantly different when work on an overall plan for hydropower began early in the 1980s. The potential for hydropower, as opposed to wind power, is limited to the location of the watercourses, and most of the current economically useful hydropower projects had already been identified. The Government is committed to the sustainable and holistic development of wind power, taking into account all relevant considerations. I have great faith that today's system of planning and concession treatment, thematic conflict assessments and guidelines for wind power will help us to produce the good wind power projects. In this way, wind power can lead to environmentally friendly and renewable energy production. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee does not agree with the proposal for an overall plan for the construction of wind turbines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1086	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1089	I hear that the environmental rhetoric is held high both by the Minister of Energy and by most others who have made contributions, but that one still chooses to put away everything that has to do with special demands, compared to what one sees in terms of hydropower. Wind measurements were drawn as an example that this becomes terribly difficult. I do not understand why it is so difficult to have wind measurements in relation to a national plan, when one would probably have to have wind measurements in order to draw up detailed plans or thematic conflict assessments. What is our main point in promoting this proposal is that part of these overall issues, which are often caught up in the county, but which one cannot coordinate across the county boundaries, are not addressed without an overall plan. For example, Statnett has warned that if one builds out all the wind you can want in Finnmark, it will cost us between NOK 6 and 8 billion to bring the power down to, for example. Trunk layers, where they are to be used. Without an overall plan, would you be able to meet Statnet's investment needs when you look at the county alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1098	I used quite a large part of my contribution to address the concerns to be taken into account in the planning of wind power projects – environmental considerations, which are intended to address most of the concerns expressed here by the representative Solvik-Olsen. A lot of this is well taken care of. We are doing well with the thematic conflict assessments, which we have submitted to very many of the planned projects. The difference between starting a work with a national plan where all of this is to be mapped, and the way we're doing it now, is that we take into account, for example, the following factors. the plans already in place. I have to say that I am surprised to hear the representative of Solvik-Olsen argue for a long-term postponement of the construction of wind power projects, as this is actually going to be, when I have recorded at the same time his indignation in the last days that the government failed to achieve a common green certificate market with Sweden. The plan that Solvik-Olsen is now asking for will mean that it will take many years before we can start building up wind power in Norway and thus realise the potential that he believes is possible to realise through green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1107	In its statement, the Council of State refers to the existence of 67 concessional projects. I believe that almost all of these 67 projects have their background in the confidence that we would be able to put in place a green certification market together with Sweden – which the new government has scolded. My question is then: does the Norwegian-Swedish certification system, green as stated in the Ministry's press release, still believe that it is sustainable? He still thinks that the reason given is 100 pst. correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1114	In the days to come, we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss both green certificates and new instruments, to ensure that the Government's ambition for a strong commitment to new renewable energy, among other things. wind power, shall be capable of being realised. The press release sent out is, of course, the correct version in relation to the results that were possible in the negotiations. If the representative Kristiansen is committed to obtaining calculations and calculations on the table – which I have already been asked about from Stortinget – then the examples of how this will affect Norwegian consumers are on the way. The representative shall be given ample opportunity to study the effects of any agreement with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1121	Prime Minister Stoltenberg, justified in the Wednesday Question Time accident in the negotiations with Sweden on green certificates, that this would lead to an increase in the price for consumers. This breakdown has a significant negative impact on future production of clean energy and wind power. First we have to pay 25 cents for the power, and then we have to pay 15 cents for green certificates. It's 40 cents, said the prime minister. He gave the impression that green certificates would give consumers a price increase of 15 cents. It's an obvious misunderstanding. I ask the Council of State to confirm that this gives a false picture of the effect green certificates have on consumers. Then I have another question: does the Council of State agree that regional plans can be a suitable tool for conflict resolution in the field of wind power development, and how can he stimulate such creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1128	If the representative of Kvassheim thought there was a manifest misunderstanding in the exchange of words with the Prime Minister, he might have asked for the word then to clarify the obvious misunderstanding. It's not unrealistic that the price of the certificate might be 15 cents. It's probably going to be higher than that. The calculations showing how large this could be on the current price will be presented to the representative Kvassheim in a relatively short time. I agree with the representative of Kvassheim that regional plans are a very well-suited instrument to ensure that the considerations to be taken into account in the development of wind power are taken into account. I am pleased that the Left supports the Government and the majority that this proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1140	This means that the cord shift is over. The President will be allowed to add that there is no access to rectifying a manifest misunderstanding in the oral questioning process. For the sake of order, the President – who led the oral Question Time – will also add that in the Prime Minister’s reply, the words ‘e.g.’ were used 15 cents. It was omitted from the representation of the representative Kvassheim. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1148	I guess we'll be all right in three minutes. There has been an exciting discussion and debate in Stortinget about this. And we're told that the government has a plan for the development of renewable energy. As far as I am concerned, this is a secret plan which neither the power builders in Norway nor this room have been informed about. In this way, I would say that the plan does not have much to do with it – for the time being at least. Then it is said that development will stop with a national plan, while with regional plans in all regions, development will not stop. I don't understand. But why did the Progress Party promote this proposal? 1 600 windmills in Finnmark are covered. These are to produce electricity that is not needed in Finnmark and that is not transported away from Finnmark. The main counter-argument we've met in the hall today is that the office or this hall is going to make sensible decisions about the development of wind power. But why, then, does most of this hall support a national plan for hydropower? Is it not the same politicians and bureaucrats who need to make good decisions about hydropower development? That local politicians around Norway want to develop wind power in their municipalities, with associated extra income, is not strange. But it's our job in this room to make sure that it's the projects that have the least environmental impact and the best social economy, that are being developed, not the projects that belong to municipalities with poor finances. In this debate, the Right only talks about the power aspect. Ivar Kristiansen from the Right only talks about the power aspect. So the right has been in position for four years, and every time we've been discussing energy issues in this room over the past four years, the right has been talking about the environmental aspect. When we in the Progress Party are trying to promote a matter that is primarily about the environmental aspect, the Right is just talking about the force aspect. Given the rhetoric that came from there, I ask myself if the Right now will eliminate the national plan of hydropower. And so – if I get permission: It was said here that the Progress Party has previously thought that all expansion is good development. But it's not like that. The Progress Party believes that the development of energy in Norway, which results in the least possible environmental intervention and the best possible social economy, is the energy development we are going to undertake. So it's my impression that the government believes that no expansion is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1161	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1169	Then we're ready to go to voting. In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1179	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-03.ana.ud1544e1248	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
