ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e69	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e72	On behalf of the representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I propose the preparation of a travel life message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e77	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e80	On behalf of Bent Höie and myself, I would like to make proposals for the implementation of stricter maintenance requirements in the case of family reunification.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e85	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e88	On behalf of the representative Åge Starheim and myself, I have delighted to make proposals to investigate and implement measures against forced marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e93	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1 and 2 on today's map have been debated, and then total voting after case no. 3-8 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e111	This is a basic bill that does not change the realities of the Constitution, but a proposal to correct linguistic errors, as one in the Storting has previously made changes to the Constitution, where there have been some linguistic errors that are not in line with the language used in the Constitution. Contact was made with The Storing, among others. Professor Finn-Erik Vinje on 9 January 2004. The Presidency said that when a person is going to correct linguistic errors in the past, it should do so by means of a basic bill. That's the committee. It's been done before that one has just made a linguistic change without letting it go into the Storting. The Committee agrees with the Presidency that the Constitution is so – we say – ‘holy’ that it should not be deceived unless the Stortingeet adopts the amendments by means of constitutional proposals. What's a problem is that the Storing sometimes makes decisions that are linguistically incorrect. On that basis, the Committee has decided to send a letter to the Presidency asking the Presidency to adopt some form of language proofing before any constitutional proposal is referred to in the Stortinget. Because the problem is that when Constitutional proposals are presented and referred to in the Stortinget, they cannot be changed. Then the Storting has only one thing to do: either to adopt the constitution or not to adopt it. If, because of linguistic errors, one should not adopt a basic legislative proposal that is important and reasonable in itself, one must actually wait four years before a reasonable decision can be taken. The one thing that has already been selected is that one of them has agreed basic laws that have a linguistic flaw, and then they have to come up with a new basic law proposal to change the error that has been made. Today, at the next draft Constitution, we experience that we are making a decision in Stortinget – that's a consensual attitude from the committee – that actually contains a linguistic error. That means we need to have a new constitutional proposal a little later that corrects the error that we decide on in the next case. That is why the Committee believes that we should ask the Presidency to create an institution in which the constitutional proposals are sent for linguistic correction, linguistic proofreading, quality assurance, and that perhaps it should also be implemented by getting one into the Rules of Procedure. But all the practicalities of the committee mean that the presidency with its administration is most capable of making a proposal. Otherwise, I urge the Stortinget to adopt its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e142	To the extent that we also correct a mistake in the third paragraph here, ‘It’ is replaced by ‘There’, but the main thing is to make a change in the first sentence of the second paragraph. When we deal with this matter so early in this ageing period, and so soon after the Storting treated the Constitution § 100 last, namely 30 September 2004, it is to clear up any misunderstanding about the protection § 100 is to give the freedom of expression. In the previous proceedings, questions were raised as to whether the term ‘on a different basis than a contract or other private legal basis’ in the second paragraph could be interpreted more restrictively than the meaning agreed upon in this Chamber. The last debate showed that there was no disagreement that this wording was intended solely to provide for the general rules of professional secrecy on which broad agreement must be reached, such as sensitive personal data, national security or business secrets. The debate also showed that there is agreement that such rules of professional secrecy can equally be based on the wording later in the second paragraph, namely, 'to be defended against the grounds of freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the formation of the individual'. [[...]] Thus, the words that are, hopefully, taken out of Section 100, second paragraph, are considered superfluous today. This will also remove the basis for misinterpretation of Storting’s intentions. The fact that the proposal for this change is cross-political and that today's vote is unanimous will remove any doubts at this point. With this also a thorough debate and a broad discussion of freedom of expression will hopefully be brought to an agreed conclusion regarding the design of the Basic Law § 100, then with the exception of possible linguistic errors. Freedom of expression is not something that political authorities give the country's citizens. That's something people have. The role of the Storting is to ensure that this right is protected by the Constitution and by other laws, while setting the necessary framework for the freedom of expression against other fundamental principles of a democracy, such as the individual's right to hold sensitive information about his or her own person, about the security of the State or about business secrets. The last doubt raised about the words 'on a different basis than a contract or other private legal basis' was particularly linked to the freedom of expression of employees. So it was not the intention to doubt that freedom of expression also applies to the right of employees to express themselves, even to their own employment. On the contrary, in the last debate, even by the then Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum, it was pointed out that the new Section 100 strengthened the protection of the freedom of expression of employees. It was referred to in the third paragraph, ‘Freedom of speech on the State Board of Directors and whatever other matter is permissible’, and that the limitation of that freedom of expression should apply only where ‘in particular, make it liable to put an end to the grounds of freedom of expression’. The Ministry of Labour and Integration has also sent, at the hearing, draft legislative proposals in the Working Environment Act on the freedom of expression of employees to be based on the provisions of the Basic Law, as § 100 is now being adopted here today. With this, I recommend Stortinget to join the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e165	I find, precisely because of the last thing the rapporteur said, reason to point out that the change that took place in the Constitution last, and that is now being confirmed, as the case-rapporteur also says, in order to strengthen freedom of expression, and also when it comes to a new work environment law, which has been at the hearing, with a whistle-blower paragraph, is at least our position that we want to strengthen employees' rights. I hope that the Government, when considering hearing opinions and coming to Stortinget with a legislative change, will also look at Sweden and respond to some comments, including: from the bodies of the press, with regard to the design of the changes to the Working Environment Act. There is a debate at the hearing where someone has interpreted some of the Government's proposals as restrictive, rather than what might have been the Storting's last position, at least the attitude of the Progress Party, to strengthen the protection of employees from represals if they find they would like to say about critical matters. So I would like to recommend the Government to look a little bit at Sweden and be responsive, so that we do not get a new debate that what is going to become part of the Working Environment Act will be seen as a restriction of employees' rights. Then I also find reason to say that I fully agree with the rapporteur when it comes to the starting point for freedom of expression and the strong restrictions on restrictions on freedom of expression. I agree with the rapporteur that there are three aspects that restrict freedom of expression: it is the security of the state, it is privacy, and it is business secrets. Other considerations, other matters currently being discussed a day, do not lead to restrictions on freedom of expression. The freedom of expression is therefore fully applicable to all matters other than national security, privacy and business secrets. That freedom of expression is something we must call for, and we must ensure that those who have different views on it do not win out. It is a pillar of democracy and of Norwegian society that only the three conditions, the security of the state, privacy and business secrets, can lead to restrictions on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e172	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1217]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e180	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e188	There is a unanimous vote, but since we are now going to decide on a number of linguistic corrections in the Constitution, the President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e315	The plug starts with representative No. 7 for Hedmark County. The voters will reply yes. The votes against the configuration answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e340	There is also a unanimous vote here, but since there is to be a vote on the amendment of the Constitution, the President will propose that this be done by roll call. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e388	This form load in industry has been discussed for many years. When we have traveled around and visited the small businesses in particular, we have seen that there has been a great dissatisfaction there because we experience that a lot of time is spent on various forms. I think part of this criticism has come to a conclusion. We know that most companies in Norway have less than 10 employees — that is what is normal — and that those who sit as the Executive Director are often also involved in production and daily operations. In this way, part of the forms that the public wants to fill in and send in feel like more stress and wasted time. At least I have a lot of understanding that some people in the business world feel that way. At the same time, we know that we need to obtain some information for different purposes, not only in relation to the economy, but also in relation to the working environment and a number of other things. The national audit has now gone through and looked at the impact on business of these forms. We see that from 1998 to 2004, the number of forms went down by 2.9 pst. 200 years' worth of work. It's a pleasure, isn't it? It's a step in the right direction, but it's still a step forward. Some of the points in the report are that the scope of each form has become larger than in the past. Now we know that there are things going on both for Altin and other services, where you need to streamline this with information to be sent in. The Committee is very concerned that this work needs to be continued as has been done in recent years. We're doing well, but we're far from achieving goals so that the business community gets a deal about this with the submissions of information that are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e397	In some individual areas good results have been achieved in reducing the scope of form reporting. Most of the decline in 2005 is due to the switch to electronic reporting. Offensive bets on the use of Altinn are found to produce desired results for the establishments that deliberately rate this. However, the National Audit Office’s studies show that well over half of 4500 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) experience more rules to follow over the last two to three years and 39 pst. by enterprises, they believe that they are using more resources on form reporting now than two to three years ago. A total of 51 state-owned enterprises are burdened by different forms of reporting. I assume that several of these forms also have to be produced as a result of questionable batches at Stortinget. The reduction in the form load during the period to which the survey refers is far from the targets set by the size of the population in order to reduce the burden on industry of legislation and forms. It is certainly a great potential for further reductions. Work needs to be intensified, and I am pleased that the Government has great ambitions to reduce the heavy burden that the form field can impose on business. At the same time, there is reason to recall that industry also benefits from the statistical basis represented by these forms. The requirement that everything be simple and effective may in some cases be on collision courses with the requirement for good evidence of facts and analysis and thus the best possible basis for decision-making. It is important in simplification that this is not trivialised but given the attention needed to create win-win solutions. New technologies and the Internet provide a good basis for better service, new services and smaller form fields. It would be of great interest to know more about how other countries' administrations deal with the issues we are dealing with today. The Soria Moria Declaration commits to continuing work to reduce the number of forms, to reduce the short duration of treatment and to simplify procedures to ensure a simpler Norway. That this will be a very important work is in line with what the Committee points to. There is good reason to ask for ‘high pressure’ in this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e406	One of the country’s most important tasks in industrial policy is to be an active partner with the business community and in many ways to be the active partner of the business community in a positive sense. Therefore, it is sad that public bodies of business are perceived as a threat and an obstacle to the existence, growth and value creation of business. This must be taken seriously by the state, and only the state can change this. The issue that we are dealing with here shows in many ways what obstacles the public services are to the creation of value in business. To do something about the form field in such a well-regulated society as ours has been on the political agenda for a number of years. A number of governments have had this on the agenda without having implemented the very large reductions. The review by the National Audit Office of what has taken place in this area from 1998 to 2004 also covers the period of a government that has flagged its resistance to the form field high. It is therefore surprising that the reduction in the form load has not been greater during this period than this survey shows. It only shows that work needs to be intensified and that it needs to be more focused on the reduction that can really help business and that can reduce the enormous costs that our society spends on data reporting. The resources seized both in the public sector and in the private sector are resources — both economic and human — that can be used in a more socially beneficial way, be additional value creation in the private sector or to improve services in the public sector. The fight against the form field is therefore not only about resistance to bureaucracy and forms, but also about maximising the best possible use of resources in society. When we look at the Riksrevision study that some 6,000 annual works in private companies agree to respond to information, the question is: How many annual works are part of the public sector to produce questions and address the answers that come in? This is a matter of very considerable resources. As a modern society, we cannot make use of our resources in such a faulty and cost-intensive way. Therefore, there are some very fundamental questions that we as legislators and all other public agencies that produce laws and regulations have to ask us: is there really a need for the law, regulation or form that we want to introduce? Could it be that as a public authority we can do without that information? Is there any existing information, or is there simply no need for the law, regulation or proposed form? The answer to this must be that we need to avoid, to a much greater extent, burdening businesses and people with multiple forms, laws or regulations. We simply have to trust that the private traders are just people who do not try to trick the public, but only want to contribute to the creation of value and get a living. If we can get to this recognition, we've come a long way. It is such that, while working on regulatory simplification, a new regulatory framework is introduced, and this new regulatory framework eats up to a great extent the effect of removing something. We see from the report that we are now examining, that public agencies are asking for information that already exists. Information is requested which is not used. There is a lack of visibility of the impact of the introduction of new legislation, and the business community regards the form field as highly burdensome. On page 5 of the setting: ‘The Court of Auditors has noted that the Ministry of Industry and Trade will soon present a new Action Plan in the area of simplification and a strategy for the further development of electronic services aimed at business.’ Now that we have the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade present in the Chamber, we expect him to come up with a timetable for this to be presented to the Stortinget. From the survey, we can also see that the state budgets that have many forms and ask for a lot of information do not contribute much to simplification. Here, the tax system and the Rikstrygdeverket highlight themselves. With regard to the tax rate, it seems quite strange, with the efficiency of the tax rate in recent years, with the increased use of electronic reporting and pooling of EQS. However, it is gratifying that the State's agricultural administration has suffered a severe reduction. Reduced forms are about trust in the actors in society and about efficient and correct use of resources. Here, as a small and transparent country, we need to be at the top of the world and get the world's most efficient state administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e428	Several now take the step and start their own business. More bets and let the ideas become jobs. New establishments reported to the business register came up at a record level last year and, at the same time, the number of bankruptcies fell significantly. Norway has climbed to the founding head of Europe. It is a positive development, which must be reinforced and maintained. A continued reduction in forms and regulatory burdens for business is crucial. It is these small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our business and our value creation. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the National Audit Office's investigation shows that the overall business form load has decreased by 2.9 pst. in the period 1998 to the first half of 2004, a decrease corresponding to 200 annual industrial works. However, it is very important that simplification does not stop, that it continues at a high pace, in close cooperation with industry and taking particular account of small and medium-sized enterprises. The action plan ‘Simplifying Norway’, with the target of 25 pst. the reduction of administrative burdens by complying with the legislation by the end of 2012 needs to be monitored. I want to say that in many ways this is a sisyphos work. Behind each public system and behind every provision of public law there is at least one conscientious case handler who thinks: How can we make this job the best possible? In it there is a very dynamic to create new rules, new schemes and new forms. I think the government in the further work needs to consider whether not the threshold for producing new forms and rules needs to be even higher, that it simply has to be harder to find new schemes and forms that it is fun to have, and where the reason in isolation can be very good, but where you see that the overall impact is going to be devastating to business. In this way, I believe that there is absolutely room for improvement and a more offensive attitude in this area. I fully agree with all the comments made by the representative of the Progress Party. However, it is a cross-thinking that a party that wants more rights management in the Norwegian public sector, and therefore unmistakably more regulation management, does not see the link between this and the fact that it necessarily means an increased burden on the labour market in general and the business sector in particular. Let me end by stressing that I believe the effect of a common electronic reporting channel on the public sector, the so-called ALTIN solution launched by the Bondevik II government, is going to be important in the future. Such coordination is essential to reduce the burden on business associated with reporting. It is important that this work is carried on with full strength and renewed creativity, because it is something to turn the creativity of all our good and conscientious case handlers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e441	The National Audit Office's report covers a period of six years. When the number of forms has fallen by 2.9 pst. and one in all when it comes to reporting and simplifying legislation, a saving of 200 annual works can be expected, telling us that one is on the right track. But it also tells us that it takes a long time to see the results of this work, especially when you see it in the light of studies in 4,500 small and medium-sized enterprises. Over half of them say that they feel that there have been several rules. 39 pst. they say they are using more and less resources for schema reporting. We have noticed that the EEA Agreement, not least in relation to the issues in Stortinget, can contribute to increased pressure in this field. The more happy it is that Norway is involved in the simplification work in the EU. Then, in the Soria Moria Declaration, one announces an offensive industrial policy with good and far-reaching framework conditions. In this way, this report must be a good guide, not least for a government that aims to contribute to innovation and innovation and to develop more entrepreneurs. The report questions whether the Ministry of Industry and Trade has had impact on other departments and on the management of the simplification of rules and where there is a reduction in the tax on forms. It's good to do that. This report must then be a good escape for a Minister of Industry who is now responsible for increasing efforts in this field. So our advice is: hit the table with this report, and step up the effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e448	In its administrative audit, the National Audit Board has taken into account the work of various governments on regulatory simplification and the reduction of the burden on business form. The time horizon has been from 1998 to the first half of 2004. The debate today is in a way a continuation of the issues raised to me by the representative Fostervold in yesterday's Question Time. Some of the challenges that were raised in yesterday's Question Time, I'm going to try to clarify something more today. The Government is committed to facilitating stable, predictable and competitive business framework conditions. We have great ambitions to simplify the rules and reduce the form load. The government is working on three main lines to simplify and facilitate the widest possible value creation in business: First of all, we want to bet on the further development of Altin. Secondly, we believe that the competence centre of Oracle in the Ministry of Industry and Trade should help to ensure that the legislative process will contain good investigations into the impact on industry in the future. Thirdly, in order to implement effective simplification measures, the Government will continue to monitor the administrative costs of enterprises by complying with the legislation. This is how we can find the simplification measures that are most useful from the user's point of view. As the committee states, there is a need to develop Altin further. Altin is still in the construction phase, but has already shown the importance of electronic services in the simplification process. The government's objective is that during 2008 ALTINN will be the business portal for all public services. Here, companies should be given one channel to find and submit all required forms. Here's the archive where companies have to easily find out all their communication with the public. Here enterprises shall find information on rights and obligations and on public requirements and offers, necessary electronic forms for applications, etc. Also replies to applications, confirmation of the information sent, and other information that is currently sent to the post office, should be sent electronically to the companies via Altinn. The technical solutions for this are well in place. The accounting record has used this two-way communication channel and several are in the starting pit. The aim is that during 2008, operators who wish to do so should be able to have all their dialogue with the public electronically through Altinn. Although the technical solutions are in place, it is a major challenge in the future to get both establishments and entrepreneurs to use the electronic services and to develop them in a user-friendly way. The work on electronic reporting is important. However, it is also very important to coordinate the collection of information so that the same information is not to be obtained from enterprises more than once. An important measure here is that all public agencies are now required to use basic data from the Unit Registry. A figure that has been highlighted in particular in the Riksrevision report is the 2.9 pst reduction. in the total business form load between 1998 and the first half of 2004. Therefore, I have this joyous news for Stortinget: recent data from the Task Register show that Norwegian business in 2005 used 580 fewer annual works in completing the State Form than in the previous year. Most of the decline in 2005 is due precisely to the transition to electronic reporting. This shows that the bet in this area is right, and it's important. The tax base alone has achieved a significant reduction in time use by fulfilling the nutritional task by means of an offensive commitment to electronic completion and submission of the form in Altin. These figures indicate that the overall reduction in the number of annual work used by the total industry in the reporting of schemas between 1998 and 2005 is a total of 11 pst. I cannot promise corresponding figures every year, but this must be said to be a good promise for the continuation of the work done. There has been a systematic effort to facilitate and simplify business life for a number of years and under changing governments. However, there has been a lack of a good tool to measure whether the simplification measures provide concrete improvements for businesses. Using the internationally recognised standard cost model, business interviews can now identify information requirements and administrative procedures that are particularly costly and where there is particular potential for simplification. The legislative areas VAT, excise duties and HMS – health, environment and safety – have already been identified in this way. I see this as an important measure, and I want to continue working with the other regulatory areas. It is gratifying that the Committee considers the work on simplification and business organisation important, and wishes to see greater progress in the work. I can promise that the Government has great ambitions regarding what we can achieve with a simpler Norway. Then the representative asked Asmyhr questions about the action plan and whether it comes to Stortinget. The previous government presented an action plan for a simpler Norway 2005-2009 in June 2005. This government is continuing the ambitions of that plan. Finally, to the representative Højbrätten: First of all, I would like to say a thousand thanks for the many good and wise words that were said about the conscientious work that many case handlers do in connection with this job. The representative can do much about this through his closeness to many of these case handlers. The simplification case must not stop and should not stop. I can assure the Storting that that's exactly what the Government's ambition is: we're not going to stop, we're going to continue the good work that's started, and, if possible, show even greater creativity to reduce business costs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e494	There was a joyous and more up-to-date information that the Council of State could now provide on the decline in the work now being done in the reporting of business to the public. The impact of the work started in the previous four-year period came too fully in 2005. I understand that the Council of State will not promise similar reductions in all years to come, but at least there must be a decline. I still think there's something to pick up in asking a couple of important control questions: are we absolutely sure that the coordination of the procurement is complete – in other words, that not the same etat asks the same companies about the same topic twice? It's supposed to be done, you say. I'm not sure. Question two is, do we still need the same statistics as 10 years ago? One might say that there is a certain demand technique in this, as statistics that are not requested cannot afford to be carried out either. But there is probably a need for us to go through the statistical collection in other areas with questions about whether you actually need it at the moment, in the field of business and the labour market, not least. The most important thing that has happened to simplifications here is, of course, that you're online, and that it can go both ways. I'm a little disappointed that you can't be completely in place with two-way communications until 2008, but I understand that there is a lot to coordinate. A control question to be asked when meeting people who complain on forms is whether they are still using paper forms. Because they do, there's a lot of evidence that they haven't taken advantage of the ability to simplify. Let me say it this way: it's maybe something that's also lying there – simply in marketing the possibilities of being paperless in relation to the public. The tax base has come a long way, and it is important, for tax and reporting in that area has been a significant workload for many enterprises. So I would like to add that a debate on forms and regulatory simplification can often be a little superficial, in the sense that one has to ask the question: who has asked for these rules? And it is not at all the bureaucrats who have asked for the rules. There is an active press group behind each form that has received political support once. You don't have to go back further than to, for example, the last four-year period. I would like to remind you of a few things that have obviously led to more reporting and more forms: The size was very much concerned, in particular with the current government parties, with the need to have better control over the management of expenditure by multinational companies, so that the profits of taxation in Norway could not be affected by, for example, to carry out expenditure higher than that on which it was based and in other ways. It is clear that there is a reasonably complex control work that requires the development of international rules. Because we cannot intervene in the dispositions of an Italian company – just to take an example – in Norway without certain powers in order to be able to look at rules in the company’s home country as well. This only highlights a problem, and it is that the development of a global economy, what we often call deregulation internationally, can paradoxically confront us with demands for stricter legislation both nationally and internationally. Freedom requires responsibility and responsibility must also be entrusted to public authorities. We will probably also see other examples of the fact that globalisation of the economy requires somewhat more stringent traffic rules. They must then be international, and they must have control bodies that work effectively also internationally. The second example I want to mention is when the Storting was concerned about the debate on foreign workers. When the new EU countries entered into the EEA Agreement, the Storting was extremely concerned — more than the government — with imposing reporting schemes on the workforce for all types of workers, a legislation which, as far as I know, has not yet been implemented and which is now in the hands of this government to be followed up. But let me just say carefully that if you realize your own decision now, when you are in the operational position, it will at least lead to much more of the form load.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e509	I could not fail to notice that the representative Højbråten in his post was injured to say that my post was largely a contrast to what the Progress Party is doing in practical policy, and that the Progress Party among others. with its proposals for increased rights legislation contributes to increased forms fields. This is a big misunderstanding. Ensuring the fundamental rights of citizens is not an increase in form fields but a safeguard of the rights that they are entitled to. The issue we are dealing with now concerns the simplification of legislation and the burden of forms imposed on businesses and citizens by public authorities, and not the protection of fundamental rights which the State does not fulfil in relation to its citizens. There is no party in this Chamber who has proposed as much simplification of the public sector and reduction of the form field as the Progress Party has. I also noticed that the Council of State in its statement gave very positive signals about the work he intends to do when it comes to still reducing the form field. A strong focus on this work should be expected from the Government. It is my opinion that the Council of State should inform the Government of what the Government intends to do in the process of simplifying the form field, so that the Storting is also actively involved in this work. The government's ambition should certainly be to be much better in this work than the previous government. Then we can get a good piece on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e516	My little visit to the representative Kielland Asmyhr was not something I was hurt to say. On the other hand, the representative Kielland Asmyhr was injured to quote wrong. I did not connect the attitude of the Progress Party to increased rights management to increased forms fields, I connected increased permissions management to session rules management. And there's two different things. In this case, we are dealing with both the increased form field and the load on an increased degree of regulation management. At that point, the Progress Party will probably not be able to get away from the fact that it has, over many years, wanted a society moving from more framework management in important areas to more regulation management. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr says it's just the citizens. But it's too simple an analysis. The report shows that some of the main problems lie in the tax system and in the social security system — which does have tasks in relation to citizens but which also have major business-related tasks. There are probably two of the heaviest manufacturers of relatively detailed rules, which also have to deal with business. If you want more of society to be governed in the way that I have clearly understood that the Progress Party will, among other things. part of the welfare sector, I think it's hard to imagine that it can happen without more rules and not fewer. It's possible that you think of it in a completely different way, but I think the Progress Party is wise to take inward that this is a paradox, and that they might be able to move a little bit relative to thinking about how to solve that paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e527	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e543	Several governments have put public sector renewal on the agenda. Improving resource use and efficiency, increasing space for action and better provision of services to users have been the aim of this effort. In this context, the reorganisation of establishments has been a commonly used instrument. It is therefore of value that the Storting has now been submitted with a study showing the effects of the reorganisations and the reasons which must be taken into account to ensure the objectives set. The National Audit Office has carried out a review of 12 reorganisations and evaluated both how they are planned and how they have been implemented. In addition, in-depth studies have been carried out on three activities: the Directorate-General for Fisheries, the State Agriculture and the Directorate for Social and Health. The costs and use of resources resulting from the reorganisations have been in focus. The conclusions reached by the Riksrevision are hardly surprising. Different reorganisations have helped to a varying extent to achieve the management policy objectives of more efficient resource use, better governance and coordination and stronger user orientation. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, in its comments, points to the concern that half of the reorganisations of the study have been carried out without clearly defining the objectives of the reorganisations. Clear goals and good processing are an absolute condition for success. Conversions also require close cooperation and inclusion of employees in order to produce the desired result. Given the strong focus that has been on costs in the public sector, I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the fact that only five of the companies surveyed have made and provided estimates of the costs of the reorganisations, as part of the decision-making basis before the decision. The fact that eight additional establishments were waiting to assess the cost of the reorganisations until after a decision was taken gives reason to ask questions about the procedures followed in such cases. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs therefore finds reason to point to the criticism that major reorganisations have been put into practice without significant issues such as the cost of changes and alternative models of organisation being part of the decision-making base. The management of Community resources has a particular responsibility to ensure that the use of funds leads to the desired outcome. An important objective for the conversion of the public sector has been the transfer of staff from the administration to the provision of services. Nor at this point is the outcome of the Riksrevision study unambiguous. In seven cases, the number of administrative staff was reduced, while the number increased in four. In one case, no information is available. However, with regard to these figures, one reservation should be made: the survey does not say whether changes in duties have been made that may have affected the manning needs of each activity. The need for administrative costs varies. When the National Audit Office determines that organisations with a high administrative role before the reorganisation spend more or as much resources on this after the reorganisation, the type of activity may be one of the reasons. Another important objective of public reorganisation has been increased user orientation. Here, too, the number of actions and results taken varies. In a note, the Committee comments on the role of the former Ministry of Labour and Administration – now the Ministry of Innovation – in ensuring the exchange of experience and knowledge between departments. The Committee wonders whether this role has been so clearly defined in the ministerial system as may appear to be reflected in the report of the National Audit Office. After all, it is up to each government to choose how it wants to organise its management activities. I have a certain understanding of the Ministry of Health and Welfare's suggestion that the National Audit Office's user survey, which was aimed at the county officials and county doctors, could have been extended to other groups, because the transfer of county doctors to the county officials was as controversial as it was, both in the departments and among county doctors. With such a narrow starting point, it is therefore difficult to draw any bastant conclusion. Let me conclude by saying that the study of reorganisations as a management policy tool is useful because it shows that reorganisations can be an appropriate measure to achieve better governance, coordination and resource utilisation, but this requires good planning, including the clarification of costs, employee and management cooperation and a conscious focus on the objectives throughout the implementation process. Otherwise, I refer to the unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e575	This report from the Riksrevision covers the years 1997 to 2002. The main impression of the report is that it provides a relatively nuanced picture of migration measures. Let me highlight the positive first. In several cases reduced manning has been achieved. Now you can say that in those cases where you have not achieved it, it is not necessarily something wrong – it is asked what the goal was. In several cases it has been possible to convert from administration to service provision. In those cases that you haven't done it, it depends on what the goal was. When reorganising purely administrative agencies under a Council of State, the aim is not necessarily to reduce administrative strength but perhaps to achieve other policy objectives. It has also been pointed out that in many cases simplified governance has been achieved by reducing the number of underlying agencies. That may be important enough. The really negative thing, I have to say, is that so many projects have been carried out without clear targets, because if you carry out conversion without targets, you can hardly verify it. I'm sure there are excuses for everything. Many reorganisations are driven by political ambitions, where the pace is often crucial. Some may also have been driven by EEA directives, which must be done quickly. But there is no excuse either for not setting a target and taking the time to provide alternatives and an economic plan. The fact that many of the reorganisations have not led to savings, or that the economic objectives set have not been achieved, is also of what needs to be highlighted as very negative. Now a lot is done to improve this. The Ministry of Modernisation — now the Ministry of Renewal — replied that the follow-up to the investigation manual has been reinforced. It's important. The competence of the Ministry of Modernisation – now the Ministry of Renewal – to advise the other departments in the experience of reorganisations has improved. It is not mentioned in the report or in the submission, but new public quality assurance regimes are in place to ensure that major projects go through two phases of quality assurance. My own experience is that there is often a political urgency that makes you not entirely willing, because it would take some time, especially phase 2. Then you have to come back to Stortinget and say that it takes a little more time. I think you need to understand that, especially if quality assurance can lead to better objectives and plans for reorganization. In the modernisation plan presented by the previous government, part of the criticism of the Riksaudition that we are now discussing, has been taken into account in the objections that have arisen, where they are negative to reorganisations, and also in setting clear targets and targets for the reorganisations, so that it can be verified. In particular, I would challenge the current Minister of Renewal – or, in my words, the Minister of Renewal – to follow up at least these sections of the modernisation plan of the previous government. There may be political disagreement about the objective of reorganisation and where to reorganise. It is to be respected that a new government has different perceptions of it. But the fact that the investigation work must be there is at least important, because governments come and go – to put it that way – and conversion in the public sector takes time. It is therefore important to have clear targets, clear budgets, and to verify them and place them in the hands of future governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e595	The National Audit Office points out in three areas where a question arises about the role of the Ministry of Modernisation and the Ministry of Labour and Administration in the reorganisation processes. As many people have done, the department has changed its name a few times during this period, so in this article I will concentrate on using the word ministry. During the period considered by the Riksrevision, 1997–2002, the cost of reorganizations in both planning, implementation and follow-up has been small, even if the cost of reorganization has been significant. The National Audit Board questions whether the Ministry should have been a more active driver towards the Ministry of Trade to ensure that cost assessments were more low as part of the basis of decisions. The National Audit Office further points out that the Ministry had a limited knowledge overview with regard to expenditure, achievement of objectives and effects of state reorganisations. Overall, the review gives reason to call for more systematic knowledge of the planning, implementation and effect of state reorganisations, so that conversion processes can be implemented and implemented on a broader basis of experience. The National Audit Office also points out that the Ministry provided sector ministries with systematic and formal guidance to assist in the distribution work during the period examined. As far as the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is concerned, I have noticed that the Committee believes that giving one department a follow-up responsibility for such matters can have its advantages, but that the Committee and also the case-speaker stress that it is up to each government to choose how the administration will organise its activities. According to the Norwegian administrative tradition, the responsibility of the State Council, in the sense that the State Council is responsible for its field of competence, is strong, and it would be natural that the main responsibility lies with the individual specialist council. At the same time, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has a general responsibility to ensure a satisfactory basis for public distribution, in conjunction with a responsibility for exchange of experience and knowledge-building across borders. It is a responsibility and an administrative role that I take seriously, and I am there to strengthen the ministry's efforts. I noticed that there were gaps and weaknesses in the basis for decisions and implementation of state reorganisation processes. I do not care that there may be a problem with my system. My department – also the representative Foss inside – has for a long time, longer than this government’s time, prioritised and focused on improving these systems. The Committee emphasises the need for as good a knowledge as possible in the event of reorganisations. In this work, the Government sees the use of the distribution instructions as an important tool. Accordingly, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has developed its own guide to the instructions to help further strengthen the work on impact assessments. The government will also strengthen its capacity. This work has been underway before we entered the offices, and we will, in time to come, strengthen the capacity, to support the ministry in planning and carrying out socio-economic analyses in general. As part of this work, better competence has been built on such analyses in my department, and it is rigged to a specialised panel to assist the ministry in its work on impact assessments and socio-economic analyses of various proposals and actions being assessed. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has also updated the guide for socio-economic analyses. My department is looking at how to develop models to identify and quantify socio-economic costs and benefits associated with state adjustments and reorganisations. The government will focus on improving knowledge of how the various tools used for reorganisations work. Such knowledge-based evidence for distribution and decisions will also include the development and better compilation of public sector information. It is important here to mention StatRes, which will provide an overview of the use of resources and the achievement of the objectives of State action. I would also like to mention the Management Database, which should provide a basis for better knowledge of the development of the administration, including: organisational changes. This, together with a number of other measures that I think I should be allowed to come back to later, should form the basis for better management of sectors and activities, so that better knowledge of the consequences of future reorganisations can also be found. To the challenge of the representative Foss, I can say that we have not put away the entire modernisation plan of the previous government. We're going through him, to see if there's anything we can automatically follow up on. Some things we might want to do differently, but it's quite obvious that this government too will focus on moving forward in the investigation work that needs to be done in order for future reorganisations to be more successful than perhaps the Riksrevision report suggests that they have done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e639	Document No 3:12 for 2004–2005 concerns the National Audit Office’s review of the management and follow-up of drug users’ interventions. A collective committee agrees with the Riksrevision's starting point, that drug abuse is one of our biggest societal problems. The Committee also expresses its views on the report in a joint opinion. A separate comment and a proposal are needed for the progress game. It is crucial for those in need of assistance for their abuse, for relatives and too many workplaces and communities in this country that there is consistency between supply and relief measures. It is apparent from the report that Sirus calculates the total cost of abuse at NOK 2.2 billion in 2001. There is every reason to believe that expenditure has increased since 2001, and that human pressures and costs are increasing. Municipalities play a central role in the follow-up to drug users. In this way, the National Audit Office's investigation can be an important travel hub for the further development of good services. The National Audit Office questions whether the Ministry has the necessary management information in this area. It is worth noting that the investigation does not cover the period after 2003 and that any changes resulting from state responsibility for parts of the drug field have not been assessed. To some extent, the notion of "snow as fall last year" – not to say in the past – can be a cover-up. The challenges in the drug field have increased significantly in a few years. The bet is also a monthly enhanced bet. The National Audit Office points out that, in the context of the Action Plan on Knowledge and Bruges, 1998–2001, social and drug-related forums were established, but that they were later slightly maintained. With this plan I have a personal experience. I was responsible for the Bondevik I administration to implement the plan. There was a small, little booklet at the starting point. It came with 20 million. kr over three years. But it gave many lonely case handlers around the municipalities the possibility of a joint forum in their own countries. In the previous period, when the plan was over, I was invited by the municipal committee as leader to Buskerud and heard how naked they were in Buskerud County that they had the opportunity to participate in this work. But unfortunately, these forums are slightly maintained in retrospect. The Committee notes that the seven centres of competence have not played a sufficiently active role in relation to the social services of municipalities. A nationwide oversight of services in the drug field was carried out for the first time as late as 2004. The Committee is alarming that the study shows that drug clients do not receive sufficient help, follow-up and the measures they need and requirements for. There is a clear potential for appreciating the way many municipalities meet their drug clients. This applies to key areas such as monitoring, documentation, systematic advice and guidance procedures, double diagnosis, medically assisted rehabilitation and the use of coercive measures. The Ministry underlines in its reply to the Riksrevision, inter alia: Its goal of municipal self-government and the decentralisation of decisions and tasks arising therefrom. The Committee does not see any contradiction between good local solutions and the need for overseeing travel makers. The Committee, in its comment, wrote a little more about what has happened since 2003, because we think it is right when this report is now to be used further. In 2003, a drug reform was agreed which provides patients with drug problems with equal rights to patients, including the right to be assessed within 10 days and the right to be treated. Processing capacity is increased. But the committee believes there is a need for additional increases, so that the cows can detach. We point to the right to an individual plane as an important traveler in that way. It's actually important to ensure that an addict with the right to an individual level actually gets such a plan. We're not talking about the self-evidentness of all the drug-related issues, namely that prevention and increased bets on it are entirely decisive to ensure that drug abuse goes down. Finally, it also includes in this case that the Soria Moria Government has announced a national, mandatory escalation plan for the drug field in order to coordinate and strengthen efforts against drug addicts. Here is a chapter entitled ‘Habilities and treatment for drug addicts’, which, for the Government, will be a good guide to a detailed strengthening of this field. The Committee takes the view that, with the preparation of the alert plan, the Ministry is also concerned with developing the necessary guidance and tools and models that contribute to a greater level of systemicity and knowledge in the municipalities for their part of the responsibility. The Party for Progress has designed this in its own proposal. That's what we think the rest of us are unnecessary. We have suggested that the reference to the Riksrevision of a better interaction between the different actors before the drugs field is taken into account in the plan that the Government is about to draw up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e673	There is reason to be concerned about the development of drug use in Norway. Drug abuse is one of our greatest societal challenges. The human pressures and costs are increasing. Unfortunately, drug use among young people is also increasing steadily. There is great cause for concern about the consequences of this. The number of drug deaths has tripled in the 1990s until 2000. During 2001, nearly 11,000 different people were arrested by the police for one or more drug offences. This is more than a triple since 1990. Getting into position as a patient is a particular challenge for drug users. Low health status means that the need for health care is high. The abuse may affect the general state, so that the structure and procedures are more difficult to maintain in everyday life. Some may be aware of their rights, but still have problems dealing with the system. Weak users, who do not themselves seek their rights to the same extent as those who function well, should be followed up by healthcare in close cooperation with the community's social and living conditions. As a result of the drug reform, drug users have been granted patient rights in the specialised health service. It provides better opportunities for holistic, coherent governance and an overall offer to drug users in the first and second line services. Regulation on individual level and new supervisor emphasises cooperation and coordination of services. The gateway is the primary health service. The municipality has an obligation to organise such that the various sub-services under the Local Health Act § 1-3 are available to the population. The Committee emphasises that there is a clear potential for improving the way many municipalities meet their drug users, as the Riksrevision points out in its report. Equally important is the fact that these offers are managed through municipal service production. The Labour Party believes that the right to an individual plan is an important tool in this context. The Committee stresses that it is important to ensure that an addict with the right to an individual level actually receives it. Never before have so many continued to learn about drugrelated and drugrelated topics. In addition to the study on general drug problems, prevention work, dual problems, outreach work, health centre drug use, family-based drug problems, and children and drug use are studied. These are important qualifications that will help to improve and structure the supply and thus contribute to the implementation of the intentions of drug reform. Priority will be given to prevention. There is also a need to stimulate further training in drugrelated and drugrelated topics. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that drug clients do not receive sufficient help, follow-up and the measures they need and demand. The study provides indications of poor planning and visibility of areas of activity for the follow-up of drug users in municipalities. As the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, the Government of the Soria Moria Declaration has a separate section on habilitation and treatment for drug addicts. It is clearly called for the design of a national obligatory escalation plan for the drug field, in order to coordinate and reinforce efforts against drug users. With background in, inter alia: thus there is no reason whatsoever to impose further orders from the Storting to the Government, as the Advance Party wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e688	It is quite obvious that the main policy instrument is to ensure that fewer people become drug addicts. That's what has to be our focus all the time. The problem in this case is that some people will always find themselves in a situation where they are just becoming drug addicts. The Riksrevision's points in this case would be reasonably depressing reading if I had not known that this has happened in retrospect. There are a number of different points in the report that we need to take seriously. This may include, inter alia: The report notes that one third of municipalities do not have an overall action plan on drugs dealing with the follow-up of drug users. Most municipalities have drug plans on how to deal with this, but much of it is forgotten about the drug user and the follow-up to the drug user. Furthermore, it is of particular concern that the procedural tool, social services, is mainly linked to social economic reporting and not organised for the reporting and follow-up of the drug user. So the question is, where should we focus? After all, the focus must be on the individual, the addict, and on the follow-up of the addict. Financial reporting is important, but it does not solve the problem for the person at the heart of the issue. Furthermore, it appears that the dossier review shows that there is insufficient evidence in the journal notes and files of the municipal social service. This is also a warning. How can you follow up on the individual and make individual plans when you know that there is a lack of evidence in the dossier itself? Another theme that is of major importance is the LAR area. It is of particular interest then to note the time taken from the desire to be linked to the LAR project until any application is submitted or an assessment is available. The time it takes seems to be unreasonably long. It is so long that unfortunately there is reason to fear that some fall from the road before they get their application evaluated at all. Perhaps the most important link to the report in terms of the LAR is the question asked by the Riksrevision regarding the equivalence of treatment for LAR applicants. The way in which these applications are handled is also called into question. If the application is sent on an ongoing basis, or the application is sent when you know that there is no capacity available, so that you can, among other things, use it. Is it possible to avoid the stowage system? There is reason to focus on what has to do with equivalent treatment, also related to these applications, because here we also come to the conclusion that it is the individual's right to be assessed on the same line that is the important thing. Furthermore, in a quarter of cases, there is no evidence that the client has been allocated community measures under the LAR. Maybe that's the most important thing. That's what you've been asking for once after. What happens when a person enters the LAR system? We can't just forget them even if they've been rehabilitated. It's just that the community then has to catch them up, which makes them maybe next time they can get off the hook and get out of the whole problem. It is also shown that centres of expertise have not played a sufficiently active role in the social services of municipalities. It has also been pointed out by the Committee. It is also very important, because if you do not have the active role in relation to the municipalities – that is, despite all the levels of competence – you will not be able to have the competence of each small municipality to take the right action. This does not give clients the help they are entitled to. It is also interesting, what was said, that we do not need the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in relation to guidance and models. Then there is reason to note what the Riksrevision asks the ministry to do. It is stated in the Riksrevision report that the Riksrevision asks the Ministry ‘to take an initiative to develop guidance, tools and models’ in this respect. Yes, it is possible the department says it will be done, but nevertheless we want to promote this proposal here today, just to make sure that the signals are given also from this hall, that the Storting sends the signal that this must be done. What have we learned in this period? The survey runs from 1998 to 2003, or towards the spring of 2004, through these interview surveys. Have we done anything in this period? Yeah, we've got the russ reform. More money has been allocated to LAR measures, which have been granted a right to individual plans. But is it followed? People who work in this field for a day-to-day period are constantly getting reports that they are not in place for the individual level. Not everyone gets it. We also know that there are long queues related to whether you get within the LAR system. We know it's a long procedure. Perhaps the most important measure we could have taken has failed to implement the Storting. It would have been to integrate social affairs into the NAV system, along with the labour market and social security system. But instead, you have chosen to leave social work outside, but go in for a co-location. It's not the same with co-location and inclusion. There will then be more people who will make decisions. This will also affect drug users. I really hope that the signals given by the government parties are followed up, because the drug addicts – I am talking a lot about that group – are sitting at the bottom of the table. I fear that they are still sitting at the bottom of the table. We have a long way to go, and we have to take this seriously, just for the sake of these people. If we are to do so, we must learn from the report submitted by the Riksrevision. We have to learn to focus on the individual, and how to be followed up in the municipality, because it's out in the municipalities these people are dependent on getting the help they need in everyday life. That's where you have to focus on the fact that when a person gets out of an institution after being weaned and rehabilitated, he's going to get back into society. And that's when you need a support device to help yourself further in the process. It doesn't help just to refer to the 5.7 to 5.9 billion that you've given to the municipalities. I'm not going to specify whether or not they have to be used up soon, but it's at least important that we now focus on the drug abuse, the individual behind and the measures to be taken in the municipality. Therefore, with this, I would like to promote our proposal that is included in the vote, and hope that the Storting can vote for it. Then at least this hall has also given a signal to the government that you want to get these things in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e716	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e719	The national audit study shows that the situation with regard to the follow-up of drug users in municipalities is not good enough. In the 2006–08 action plan on drug problems, the Bondevik II government, among others, reported that in the light of this study from the National Audit Office, a comprehensive strategy for strengthening the response of municipalities to drug users. This was a main focus of the plan. The Christian People's Party hopes, and sees it as very important that this targeted work be continued by the Stoltenberg II government. The investment in drug prevention announced by the new government is very positive. The Riksrevision study indicates clear shortcomings in the follow-up of LAR clients in the community. That gives cause for concern. The Christian People's Party believes that medically assisted rehabilitation can be right for a group of heavy drug addicts once other alternatives have been tested. But it has to be made clear that LAR is something more than medicine. It is also necessary to build a comprehensive rehabilitation plan for the individual client. In addition, we will place great emphasis on drug-free treatment, which will allow drug users to be completely free of drug dependence. Some private drug protection institutions report a tendency for municipalities to avoid using the capacity and competences they possess, because the municipalities have to pay for care after the drug reform, but not for treatment in the specialist health service. The Bondevik II Government increased the allocation of these institutions by 20 million. kr last year and proposed that this be continued for 2006. That's a good priority. At the same time, it is important that the Government finds a solution to the imbalance in the current system between the first and second line services. I would very much like to hear if the Council of State Sylvia Brustad sees this challenge, and also if she wants to continue the initial strategy of the action plan of the Bondevik II Government, which was a comprehensive strategy for strengthening the response of municipalities to drug users, which was, of course, the main focus of this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e732	As everyone has pointed out, this report shows that the decisions taken in this field have been put into practice and have been carried on well enough. We have had a change in the division of responsibilities – during the period checked. I'm not going to add anything more in this area than just saying that I think we're going to include that it reflects that this is a demanding field. It's a demanding field, because when we focus on the individual abuser, it's usually a set of problems you have to deal with. There may be different levels of responsibility, but we can also – I think sometimes we have to admit – have problems with having the tools you need to get right. That's why, I feel, a common political view that this is an important field, and that you can't ever get there that we can say we're happy with the effort. But when I asked for the floor, it was primarily for what the spokesman of the Progressive Party, Harald T. Nesvik, started with. He said that we need to focus on ‘minimum number of people becoming drug addicts’, and then he drew up a canvas that actually invites us to a debate that should take place in committees other than the control committee. Therefore, I just want to say that I hope that Harald T. Nesvik – although he has now left the hall – will take that perspective into account for the Progress Party group and for his own committee when discussing things that have to do with access to alcohol, for example. in the case of opening hours, and when the members of the Financial Committee from the Progress Party are to discuss both travel allowances and fees. I think it's important to bring it with me, because it'll be a little too easy to draw up that perspective from a particular report from the National Audit Office that goes under the responsibility of the municipalities, and then forget it when you have other proposals that sound very appealing to many other and larger selection groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e741	It is positive that the Riksrevision has examined the follow-up of the Ministry to the work of municipalities on drug addicts under the Social Services Act — whether it is in line with Storting’s decisions and assumptions. There is no doubt that in this review we have come to grips with the situation. We have to improve the quotation for those who are addicted to different drugs, and I have also noticed that the members of the Committee share this view. When the Riksrevision study clearly shows that those with drug problems do not receive sufficient help, follow-up and the measures they need – and I would also stress this – I fully agree with both the Riksrevision and the Committee that it calls for new measures. As is well known, and as many have said, the Riksrevision report deals with the provision of services from municipalities to drug addicts under the Social Services Act for the period up to 2004, when the survey was carried out. Following the conduct of the National Audit Office’s studies, several necessary changes and measures have been implemented to improve the situation, as reported, both in relation to the reorganisation and capacity increase in the specialist health service and in relation to the municipalities. Strengthening the drug field is a high priority of the Government. As announced in the Government's Declaration of Accession, we will present a national obliging escalation plan, with the aim of coordinating and reinforcing efforts against drug addicts. Through this plan, we aim to strengthen the full range of measures in terms of prevention, measures to strengthen and quality assurance of treatment and rehabilitation services, and in terms of research. Today we are dealing with a report on the provision of services for those who already have major problems. I want to say that, however, in addition to helping drug users, it is a main objective to reduce recruitment to the addicts group. I therefore use this opportunity to stress the importance of prevention measures in practice. It was granted 91.5 million as we know it. additional to the strengthening of the provision of care by means of the additionalproposal to the state budget for the current year. Medically assisted rehabilitation, as many have experienced, and the necessary dental treatment for drug addicts who do not receive it today, must be provided. And I think that's a bigger problem than many are aware of. I see the problem that a part that's going into the LAR is waiting too long. I see that there are problems related to the follow-up afterwards. It takes the government very seriously, and what I have now outlined is a first step in the government's work on an escalating plan for the drug field. As is well known, municipalities finance their efforts through the free revenues, and therefore the increase of the municipal council by the Government is a contribution to improving the ability of municipalities to perform their tasks. After the National Audit Office carried out its monitoring, the Social and Health Directorate has, among other things, prepare a report containing several proposals for a quality strategy for the drug field. I would like to stress that the follow-up of this will be an important investment for the Government in the future. As is known, the drug reform carried out with effect from 1 January 2004 took over the responsibility of regional health establishments for providing interdisciplinary, specialised treatment for drug users. The reform granted patients with drug problems rights in line with other patients, as many have experienced, and there is reason to say that there has since been a clear increase in the number of references to multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. With the reform of drugs, both the social service and the local authority have access to referral to treatment. Many suggest that this has given a lower threshold for treatment. It is important to mention that the right to individual levels under the Social Services Act was also legislated at the same time as the implementation of this reform. The reform did not change the tasks of municipalities. The overall responsibility of the municipal social service for drug abuse interventions has continued as is well known. It is my hope that the strengthening of specialist healthcare should also provide a basis for strengthening the important work of municipalities. The evaluation of the drug reform will be presented at the end of this year, and will provide answers on whether drug users have received a better and more comprehensive offer as a result of the reform, including how the interaction with municipalities works. I will continue to be extremely concerned about what several speakers have also been concerned about here today, namely the interaction between the different levels of service. We're totally dependent on if we're going to succeed in this area. I also fully agree with the Committee's view that those with individual requirements must ensure this. We'll give priority to the follow-up. There is a very strong link between drug problems and mental disorders. Between 50 and 80 pst. of those treated for drug dependence also suffer from mental illness. It illustrates that these individuals need a complete and comprehensive offer. The need for individuals to maintain work and provide housing is important and essential for the rehabilitation of drug users. I would like to contribute to linking the follow-up to the work of municipalities to the action plan against poverty, the strategy ‘Towards self-employment’, the growth message on work, well-being and inclusion, the creation of new labour and welfare management — one place and one person to deal with, not many different institutions — and, in particular, the Road to Self-occupancy Plan for Mental Health. The National Audit Office has rightly pointed out that there is a lack of statistics and management information on the municipal services related to these people. As the Ministry has pointed out in the response to the Riksrevision, it is challenging that there is no clear definition of the concept of ‘drug addict’ and that makes it difficult to obtain the necessary information. But even though this is difficult, I fully agree with the National Audit Board and the Committee that we need to do what we can to carry out more systematics and knowledge of municipal work. In cooperation with the Social and Health Directorate, I will place great emphasis on developing guidance tools, models and arrangements to enable municipalities to achieve this. I can inform the Storting that the Social and Health Directorate is going to issue a new guide to municipal drug policy action plans this winter, and there will be one of several important tools for municipalities to systematize their work on the follow-up of drug users. Finally, I would like to say that I think the Riksrevision report and the Committee's comments form an important basis when the Government is now moving ahead with the escalation plan towards these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e767	I think this has been a good debate on a difficult topic. The main balancing challenge is to find the point of intersection between legal drug use and abuse, and how to assist and help those who have or have a drug problem through their drug use. I think in such a way that the debate in Stortinget has been good. One has focused on the fact that in the group you are no better than the weakest term. I think that's important to keep focus. That's just how you can improve the service overall, and it'll be able to help those who have problems with this again. When the representative Hansen withdraws the dual morality of the Progress Party – as it is claimed – in relation to the charge on drugs, I get a little thought. I'm pretty sure that this room is aware that if there is one person who has fought for the degrees who sits at the bottom of the table, who was used as a concept here instead, it was formerly the potter John Alvheim. There's never been any doubt about it. If someone has stood up and fought that fight, it is among other things. John Alvheim. He's done it with gravity, he's done it with authority, and he's done it with respect. That connection the representative of Hansen went in here instead, I think he should stay too good at, if you look at the history and what has happened, among other things. to help the weakest of the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e774	I fully agree that the representative John Alvheim has expressed legitimate anger and frustration on behalf of many of the weakest of the weakest. But that is not John Alvheim’s concern, among other things. drug abusers who have been the faces of the Party of Advances when they are to be taken from other selection groups, e.g. the traveller or those who are concerned that the fees on the pole are a little too high. So the last proposal we got was that we were going to get a card of $18,000 each that we could use abroad. The party of progress must soon become accustomed to being a political party, which cannot have a Janus face: one face in the field of drug care, and another in the area of alcohol access.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e779	For the Progress Party, there is one fact that is important, and there is a great difference between use and abuse. Obviously, it is not in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e785	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e801	As rapporteur for Document No. 3:14 for 2004–2005, the National Audit Office's investigation into the achievement of the target in criminal matters, I would like to point out some of the main points in this case. Crime prevention has as its primary objective the implementation of custody prisons and criminal responses that safeguard society and counteract criminal offences. Provision shall be made for a criminal offence to make its own effort to change its criminal pattern of action. The purpose of the Riksrevision study has been to assess the achievement of the target in criminal proceedings. The study shows that the implementation of penalties does not fully meet the objectives and prerequisites set by the Storting regarding rapid criminal response and professional content in the settlement. Internal coordination challenges, failing procedures and lack of administrative cooperation make the rehabilitation process of convicted offenders difficult. An overall committee is concerned about these findings. We also note that the Ministry of Justice is looking seriously at the findings of the study and in its comments on the report assures us that efforts will be made to improve the quality of criminal justice. That's good. The Christian People's Party and the Committee believe that the position of the ministry in this matter is constructive and necessary. It is positive that several measures have already been taken, including: to strengthen cooperation between different parts of the administration and to ensure adequately qualified staff in prisons in the years to come. It is important that criminal services at all levels work actively to achieve the goals and assumptions set by the Storing. It is also very important to provide the best possible conditions for the individual convicted for a life without crime after an end to acquittal. The Committee has also noted that, in the future, better statistics will be produced for the reoccurrence of new crimes following criminal execution. Knowledge and feedback from such studies will provide a good basis for improving and, where appropriate, correcting the content of criminal services. It is, in the Committee's view, very positive. The Committee recommends that Document No: 3:14 for 2004-2005, the Riksrevision study on the achievement of the target in criminal justice is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e818	I'll just make a few comments. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision study on the achievement of objectives in criminal matters, among others. the implementation of penalties does not fully meet the objectives and assumptions set by the Storting regarding rapid criminal response and professional content in the settlement. There are also a number of other points, such as: internal coordination challenges, failing procedures and lack of administrative cooperation make the rehabilitation process of the convicted persons more difficult. The Committee is concerned about this. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry of Justice takes a serious view of the findings of the investigation and its comments on the report assures that efforts will be made to improve the quality of criminal justice. The Committee considers that the position of the Ministry on the matter is very constructive and necessary. It is positive that several measures have already been taken, including: to strengthen administrative cooperation and to ensure adequate qualified staff in prisons in the years to come. It is important to work actively at all levels of criminal justice to achieve the goals and assumptions set by the Storing. Not least, this is important in order to provide the best possible conditions for the individual convicted of a crime-free life after an end to acquittal. In the Committee's view, it is very positive that better statistics will be produced in the future for relapses into new crime following the implementation of criminal sanctions. The knowledge that such studies will provide provides a good basis for improving and, where appropriate, correcting the content of criminal services. That is why we are very pleased with the answers that the Ministry of Justice has so far given.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e831	The type of audit presented here is a good thing for Stortinget, among other things. to use as part of its working tool for further work in the various sectors under review by the National Audit Office. In this way, it is pleasurable and pleasant to have someone who can see into the system with an objective focus, precisely to challenge the Storting and the departments whether they jointly achieve the functionality of the various operations that the Storting is doing in relation to the departments and others involved in this. That also means that this is a clue of how sure you are. I record, as also the representative before me, that the department is fortunately taking this seriously. Obviously, if you want something more, you depend on mutual respect, and you see an improvement, which will once again serve what you want to achieve. The progress party has pointed out some points in this case, including: use of programme work. The report also points out that programme work does not necessarily fully target its target audience. It is also a fact that the previous Judicial Committee was involved in programme work and how it was used. Was it used as a political tool to actually help, or was there any other motive in this? When we want to use program work, it's to help the prisoners, so that they can come back to the ordinary society that's common to people, and in this way they can end their criminal career. Nothing would be better than that, neither for those who commit crime, nor for society for others, and perhaps not least for relatives of people who associate with criminals or who live a criminal life. Another thing that the Progress Party has also been concerned with in this matter is the use of the Free Care Offices and conflict resolution agencies. It is pointed out here, among other things. that it does not function to a large extent in relation to the purpose. It should be a serious warning at my discretion. If you want to have these kinds of measures, we have to make sure that they actually work according to the intention. That's what gives legitimacy to society. If we want these kinds of measures to be used, we depend on understanding them even outside this room. If not, we will eventually have a problem and perhaps be challenged to remove measures that are otherwise good. That's why it's important to focus on this, and make sure to adjust something where it's needed. Another thing that is pointed out by the National Audit Office is planning. Personally, I think a good analytical work relative to what you want to achieve, good plans to make sure you actually get where you're going, is a success factor. In this way, I think it is good that the Riksrevision, through the information collected, points out that there is also a significant potential for improvement here. As I mentioned in the previous case, it is the weakest link that determines to what extent success is achieved or not. This is a subject area that is difficult, complex and challenging in many contexts. There's political tension in it, and that's what it's supposed to be. Although we all have a common goal of reducing crime, the approach to doing it is quite different. If you now look at it and think that the primary thing is to help people get out of crime, this document from the National Audit Office is very good. It points out strengths and weaknesses, and it's with us and gives us a signal of what to do. On the basis of this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e848	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e851	The centre party is included in the joint comitology comment that mentions this report. I still feel the need to make a short comment. Firstly, the report itself points to serious challenges in terms of coordination, failing routines and lack of cooperation. Secondly, it is very gratifying that the Ministry of Justice takes this report so seriously. It should only be lacking in this respect, but it is a good thing to note that this is the case. It is also good to know that the country has a Minister of Justice who knows this field, and that we will not be in doubt if we will follow up with further action in relation to those who have already started. So the Committee points out the importance of giving each criminal sentenced person the best possible place for a crime-free life after acquittal. It's very important, and there's huge challenges there for the government as well. What got me to take the floor, however, is the Progress Party's comment. In the introduction, the Progress Party wrote that there was no "wide-ranging holistic" support. In this field, the Progress Party will find the necessary reference to it. And then the Progress Party itself – when one compares the previous case and this case – has just shown that they are in a special position in the Stortning when it comes to missing health thinking. So I am thinking about the Progress Party saying in the previous case that there is a need for measures to prevent us from getting more drug addicts, and looking at the Justice Policy spokesman's defense of the Advance Party's alcohol policy. The Progress Party may not have gone past the fact that international researchers have shown the link between access to alcohol and violence and crime statistics. I show you, among other things: to a comprehensive study, presented by 16 international researchers, entitled ‘Alcohol is more than one commodity’, which points out that the most important measure to prevent multiple abuses, and to reduce violence and crime, is to see that alcohol is more than one commodity and to pursue a restrictive alcohol policy. In fact, I must also give a well-meaning advice to a judicial spokesman in the Progress Party: Do not push John Alvheim in this matter. There is no doubt that John Alvheim was on the barricades of weak groups and individuals in need of follow-up in this society, but there is no doubt that John Alvheim was never on the barricades of the Advance Party's alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e864	It is a bit of a hoax when you hear that the Riksrevision has comments or opinions about the operation of the sector you are set to rule. We always think about attachments. But I have to say, as several speakers have said, that I welcome this type of audit. It's just this kind of revision we need more of. I would like more people to be able to participate in such an important debate that is being launched here today, both on drugs and not least on criminal matters. These are the main challenges we face in combating Norwegian crime. The most important measure of success is what the Department and Government are now working hard to identify and clarify, namely the answer to the question: Are we really successful in the actions taken against those convicted of criminal acts, or is it such that close to 60-70 pst. Of those who face the reaction of society, actually come back in a very short time, as repeaters, and that one actually also sees – I'm going to be honest and say it – that the actions that society is putting into action really contribute to making the situation worse, not only for those convicted, but also for those offended and for the society that expects the reactions to cause less crime? It's a hell of a cross for us working to fight crime, that much of what we're doing, in many ways not able to lift those who commit criminal acts, out of the sauce they've been sucking into. Therefore, this is one of the main areas of government activity. This is actually about making the use of public resources more efficient and getting results that benefit the offended, the victims of crime. What's fine with such a debate is also that we get the attention away from the idea of criminal custody that we're almost going to sum up the number of years, months or days, that it's the blessing, and that those who call for the most severe punishments are the ones that reach the longest in criminal policy. Because it's not like that! That's how both the Committee and the National Audit Office have pointed out, that here we need to think much more about the content and what is actually going to meet the judge. The government assumes that one of the most important things we can do now when it comes to combating criminal acts and bringing down crime is to lift the gang so that they actually get out of criminal behavior. It is not about long prison sentences, but it is about the content of prison sentences. So we're giving it more attention. What is now coming from the National Audit Office is a useful input and a useful revision that we're going to bring with us in the political work. I stress: this is something we take seriously and what we think is very important, also to move this political area over from just being guided by current events, because it is a good thing that criminal policy debates appear. We need to change the criminal custody debate from being event-driven to being knowledge-driven. There's reason to praise the Riksrevision. There is also reason to commend the Committee, the Storting and, to the extent that all those who have spoken have chosen to put themselves on a knowledge-driven line. I am concerned about the focus we have had – all parties – on criminal care in recent years, where we measure success not only in severe penalties but also by quantitatively counting the number of paydays and counting the length of the pay queue. It's vital for the government to bring down the reconciliation line, but we'll trick ourselves if we think it's the only gratifying thing to do with criminal acts. This is why the government has adopted a strategy to help bring down the reconciliation queue, because we believe that it will actually also help to increase the political and resource focus on the content of soning. There are 2,483 sentences pending for entry into Norwegian prisons. This is a totally unacceptable situation, especially for those involved, not to forget those who are offended by crime, but also because we are politically unable to draw attention to it, among other things. The National Audit Office points to the programme approach, the content of housing, administrative cooperation and the question of making the whole sector more knowledge-driven. Moreover, our experience is that a rapid response to criminal acts is far more important than necessarily a strict response. When the reaction only comes two to three years later, it goes without saying that 17-year-olds who commit crimes get very little out of the reaction if they meet this reaction when they are twenty years old and well inside, for example. a study or new work. As a result, the Government has already opted in the additional proposal last autumn to make a strong commitment to the development of new settlement sites to help bring down the settlement queue this year. It's our ambition that the reconciliation queue has to go to zero, it has to be reset, during this four-year period we're now in. I would also like to point out that the Government wants and will take action to get more responses into alternative measures. There I note the involvement of the Progress Party in the debate on special conflict councils and social sanctions. That's important input. It's important to realize that because we're united in the Storting that we're going to bet on alternative criminal reactions. That's why we create legitimacy and acceptance out in our opinion in order to do that. There are criminal reactions that can produce better results and fewer repeaters than traditional punishments, i.e. prison sentences. That is why Mr Ellingen's observation that we must ensure that the people also follow along and that we have legitimacy out there is important. We need to make sure that when we now apply social sanctions and conflict councils quite so comprehensive that it actually goes on, that we get the result you need, and that we have good control mechanisms around it. During the year we're behind, and what we're in now, we're getting a massive increase in the volume of community sanctions and conflict resolution. I would also like to show that the government has chosen to start building Halden Prison, which will provide 251 new prison sites during 2009, if everything goes as planned. It will also be able to remedy the situation in relation to the group to which we have no alternative other than prison. That's why I just want to acknowledge from the government that this is a kind of revision that we think is useful, and that we notice, and that also corresponds to a great deal of what is planned by the new government in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e917	Document No 3:15 for 2004-2005 on the Riksrevision’s examination of the effectiveness of the criminal case chain has the background to the fact that the Judicial Committee in the context of the examination of St.prp. No 1 for 2002–03 stated that rapid and correct response to offenders is crucial. This requires a well-functioning criminal case where the time between reporting and executing sentences is as short as possible. The National Audit Office has therefore carried out a review of the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings in its report. The study has been carried out on the basis of 311 selected criminal cases where it was convicted in 2003. The report identifies significant shortcomings in respect of compliance with the time limits set by the legislator for police and prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice. In many cases, the deadlines in one and the same case are exceeded by several actors in the overall chain. Consequently, this delay may become significant for the people involved. It's serious. A joint committee finds this very unfortunate. We understand that, in some cases, the legal certainty and soundness requirements of the Member State can justify exceeding the time limits laid down in the proceedings. We have also noticed that both the Riksrevision and the Ministry of Justice are asking whether the findings of the inquiry are fully representative of the criminal proceedings in the chain. A lot has happened in the field. In 2003, phase I of the police reform was implemented, a new judicial procedure was introduced, and there were significant operational problems with the police’s judicial system. These are probably important comments, but it does not weaken the impression of the report, and the Committee therefore considers that the findings of the study give cause for concern and cause for a continued strong focus on the achievement of the target at this point. It is therefore good for the Ministry to report that they have implemented several measures to ensure more effective criminal proceedings. In the opinion of the Committee, it is necessary that all actors in the chain seek to comply with the legal time limits. In this respect, it is good that ICT systems will be developed to facilitate the detection and follow-up of deadlines in each case and to improve governance and reporting procedures. In recent years, several public agencies have been working to reduce processing times and to streamline the flow of cases. Administratively, there is gradually a significant knowledge of how to achieve targets in relation to this. I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice and the Council of State to gain these experiences from other departments and see how they can be used in the continuous improvement work that I am absolutely convinced the Ministry of Justice has in this area. The Committee also asks the Ministry to ensure that the process of reducing the time spent in criminal proceedings is followed up. In this context, new studies may need to be carried out in the near future to assess the results of the actions that are and will be undertaken. When the Stortinge treats such an administrative audit, and it is pointed out that measures have been taken and will be taken, I would stress that on some points it would be natural for someone to come back and see whether these measures have actually had an effect, or whether we are on the ground resting, or even not going forward. In this way, the Riksaudition has an important task, not least within the scope of the administrative audit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e938	There are not so many controversy in the control committee in general, nor in this case, but only a few comments anyway. The national audits have investigated the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings, and in the 311 criminal cases selected in 2003, there have unfortunately been significant shortcomings in complying with the deadlines, which we as legislators have actually imposed on them. In many cases, the time limits in one case are exceeded by several actors in the criminal justice chain. That is why, as the rapporteur said, it becomes significant for them. The Committee considers this to be extremely unfortunate and serious. Both the Riksrevision and the Ministry of Justice have also asked whether the findings of the inquiry are fully representative of the criminal proceedings. We've noticed this. The rapporteur mentioned stage I of the implemented police reform, a new procedural system and greater use of ICT systems developed in recent years as important tools to identify compliance with the deadlines in the criminal justice chain. In our opinion, it is necessary that all actors in the criminal chain do all they can to comply with the legal time limits, even if we also see that there may be grounds for exceeding the time limits for dealing with them, for legal certainty reasons. We also ask the Ministry to ensure that work on reducing the time spent in criminal proceedings is followed up. There is therefore a need for new studies in the near future. After the State Council of Storberget said in his speech in the previous case that he actually wanted more audit reports, and chose a very positive approach to discovering findings that, if necessary, can change the course of this important area, and the points that our committee has now made in this matter, it is basically only for the National Audit Office to take that challenge and follow up with new studies in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e953	This too, I think, is a good and important matter to debate. I believe that the case rapporteur was quite right when he went through the case and pointed out that some of the information that has been used as a background has actually happened, was obtained and until what is the reality today. I think that's what we're going to do, that the department here has worked well and offensively, while it's quite natural to have these kind of reviews to show us where we have an improvement potential. It is a fact that the rule of law and the legal certainty of individuals are one of the key elements of a well-functioning democracy. If we do not trust the criminal case chain – what do we have left? This is one of our values – one of the bearing values of our open democracy, which we absolutely need to ensure is trusted out. At my discretion, this is a matter that is not about allocating political blame, but about jointly finding good solutions. So once again, this is a product of what the Storting has power to achieve in common, thus ensuring the legal certainty of each of us. To the extent that we can't, we're vulnerable, and there should be an alert in what's here from the Riksrevision. It is also true that all political parties in this Chamber have a share of responsibility for the quality of the chain, but also for the opposite. This is due, inter alia, to: that there are budgetary differences in priorities. It is clear that if one element is given priority within this chain for a year, there is an imbalance with the others. It is the essence of politics – at good and bad. It also means that it is good that we get the report back, which challenges us on the consequences of what we stand for politically. In that way I think this is good. It may be that the Storting should actually take on this to an even greater extent and go by itself and define what kind of crime we do not accept, what do we have to learn to live with, and by setting the norm on the extent to which the Norwegian police should have, the extent to which the courts must have to follow it up, and what must the criminal services have in order to have a comprehensive whole in the criminal chain. It is possible that we need to be there – we are not there today – and that of course needs to be discussed, because it will once again lead to political freedom that we must take in. However, the Storting may have to go that way in the long term – just to get a moral distribution between the different elements within the criminal justice chain. It is as the rapporteur and others have pointed out that deadlines are a factor in this. Maybe that's one of the most important things. It says something about the Storting being concerned about the security and the ability of the individual, and we challenge the system to live up to it. It is quite right, as the representative Mr Brørby pointed out, that there are significant weaknesses. It is clear, as the Minister of Justice pointed out in the previous case, that it is unfortunate that a youth goes for one–two years and waits for his judgment. It's to those degrees unlucky. In fact, it is equally unfortunate that a person involved in heavy crime is getting a reduced punishment because it takes so long before he is convicted. It actually helps to bore the relatives again. It's an equally big dilemma, to use such a term, as it is that it's going a long time before a first-time criminal gets his criminal reaction. In this way, I think it is very good that the Riksrevision among other things. says: ‘However, the Court of Auditors will point out that a rapid response to violence will be the right response in most criminal cases for victims, perpetrators and society for the rest.’ I clearly believe that it is right, regardless of whether it is a 17-year-old who does something stupid for the first time, or whether it is a professional criminal. They and society need to be handled in a way that benefits society and that shows that such behavior is unacceptable, but that we are using the inequalities that lie in our system. It is also the case that the new Judicial Committee has recently met with the Advocate General on progress towards the prosecution authority. There is a considerable job done, and I also expect the Minister of Justice to say something about it in his intervention in this matter. Things have happened, and that's also the case, at least I've realized, that you want to bet on this. Finally, I would like to see two proposals from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. One applies to the free choice of lawyer. There's enough nuances in this room as to what you think makes sense. But we have a challenge in relation to the fact that some, in order to use a worn-out term, ‘knowledge lawyers’ place great weight on when a trial can be held. It is such that you can today choose a lawyer freely, but it has a price in relation to the time and progress in the individual case. One of the intentions of our proposal here is that you might be able to look towards the Swedish model, which in short is that the lawyers who are available on the day of the case are allowed to choose between. We want to look at this and evaluate that solution or equivalent solutions. Another thing is what I was into instead, that is, looking at the whole thing in the chain. As I said, as long as there are political differences in priorities, we will get plugs that move from point to point depending on what kind of political majority you have. In this period, it's probably superfluous to worry about it, since we have a majority that's going to do what they want. We want you to have an overall review. It is such that the Riksrevision has pointed out a part that is a little behind, and the purpose for all of us, cf. The last debate must, of course, be that the overall picture is as good as possible. Then I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e987	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e990	In the same way as in the previous case, this is also useful for all actors in the criminal justice chain – clearly. We note both the Committee's comments and not least what is at the bottom of the Riksrevision. There are two types of audit we have a strong focus on regarding the criminal justice chain, to which I believe there is reason to stop during this debate. They're both anchored in the police's business. The first concerns the matters brought to the police's table and in which investigation is actually carried out on the basis of either a notification or a public charge. The Riksrevisen pointed out quite correctly that we are struggling in relation to the processing time. The other relationship, which is also important, is that it's still so that many things don't come to the police's table. In terms of profitability here in Oslo f. For example, we know that under 5 pst. resolved. Much of it remains darkness. Most – over 90 pst. – by those who have been raped in Norway, there is never a conviction. It is clear that there is also one aspect that we should not forget when we are going to assess the effectiveness of the entire criminal justice area, namely that there are actually large numbers of darknesses that you never get into the criminal justice area and that you never get to react to. Therefore, several measures have been taken by the Government to increase the percentage of information on a number of types of crimes and offences. In particular, in the autumn we have now set the rate in relation to Ecocrim, where there are large numbers of darkness when, among other things. apply to incoming whitewashing messages and have reinforced the manning process to carry out research in relation to them. We believe it is right now to strengthen the police effort aimed at the violence that is taking place in close relationships, where we also obviously have large numbers of darkness, and which are never subject to measurement of anyone in relation to processing time. There are also several other areas on which to draw attention. With regard to the more measurable sizes we face when the police first get cases on their desks, there is a basis for commending the previous government for the work – the debate and the political effort – that has been done. It would have been too bold on my part to say that everything is successful for the new government in relation to the development of the criminal chain, because we now see that the efforts made over the last few years have borne fruit. This gives good signals that the police reform that was launched, which has been under heavy fire, is actually now in the process of consolidating and delivering good results, not only in terms of procedural time, but also in terms of targeting new types of crime where investigations were not previously able to do so – among others. in Agder with a project on violence against children in close relationships, which is very difficult – and we see Økokrim’s involvement in several police districts, where it has really taken hold. If we go in and look at the processing time and how it has evolved, which has also been discussed by the National Audit Office, we now see very good results at the turn of the year. There is reason to commend the police and prosecutors who have just produced such results. As regards the general period of criminal proceedings, it was 153 days in 2004. In 2005, it was down for 128 days, and we know it's going down and is about to reach acceptable targets. But, as it's pointed out, some things need to take longer. The investigation may be complicated, and we cannot argue about legal certainty in this respect either. With regard to the period of proceedings for violence, where the Stortinget has set a clear deadline of 90 days, we see that in 2004 it was 141 days, and in 2005 it was 99 days. I have been informed by the Swedish Attorney General that during the last six months of 2005 the treatment period for the violence was 80 days, that is, well within the deadline. It is good to see that useful work from both the former government, the department and the police now bears fruit. What's also interesting is the question of the percentage of information. When you deal with things faster, does that mean that you solve less and hire more? There has been a claim in criminal policy debate, and it will be exciting to look at developments in the percentage of intelligence. It is too low, but at the same time we are making exciting experiences, because in the districts where you have fast processing time, you also have a higher percentage of information. And that's interesting. It may be that when you get more efficient work on criminal matters and get fresh evidence, it is also an argument and a help to actually clarify the matter. It's easier for witnesses to remember what happened when you were immediately questioned than if you were to be questioned one year after the event. We have several examples of how it seems that the percentage of information actually rises in those areas where processing time is faster. There is a basis for pointing out that this also helps us to clarify more in terms of crime, and that is how we get better responses, so that we can reduce the crime pressure in sum. This is why the Government chooses to place a decisive emphasis on continuing work on effective criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1029	The defence was subject to considerable attention in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee during the previous magnification period. The matter we are now dealing with is a new confirmation that it has been necessary. This report reveals deficiencies in governance and management over many years. National audit report Document No. 3:16 for 2004-2005 concerns deviations in material investment projects in terms of delivery time, costs and quality. Of the 19 projects examined, delivery over a total of 15 of the projects has been delayed by at least one year. In seven of these 15, the delay is in four years or more. One of the projects, ‘Pansede used special purpose vehicle’, was to be completed in 1998. At the turn of the year 2004/2005 only 200 out of 500 vehicles were delivered. According to the adjusted plans, the remainder will be delivered in 2007. It is a delay of eight years. The entire nine of the 19 projects have still not been completed, and there are only two of them that had the 2004 delivery year – all the others should have been delivered five to six years ago. As serious as the delays are the excess costs. In eight of the 19 projects, costs have increased compared to the original plan, and in four of these, the cost exceedances of 50 pst. or more. Had the deviations even stopped with this. However, in addition, the study shows that the material meets the quality requirements set in only six out of the ten projects where it has been possible to assess the quality. The most serious case in this respect must be the acquisition of airborne radar for coastguard vessels. The radar was supposed to increase the safety of helicopter operations in the dark and in bad weather. The radar didn't. After it was purchased, it turned out that it did not function satisfactorily under such conditions. The Maritime Defence Supply Command, which recommended the selected radar type, also recognises that the organisation lacked an overview of the aviation and safety needs required by helicopter operations at sea. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office's investigation does not answer to the mystery it must be said that the Maritime Defence Supply Command did not obtain the necessary overview of the requirements before the chosen radar type. In the nomination, the Committee stresses the responsibility of the defence management for the knowledge and competence of the project organisation necessary to carry out the purchases it has been made. What has happened in this case, and in several of the other projects that have been examined, is, in reality, a management failure of a very serious nature – and that of an organisation that is management-oriented and hierarchical, as the Defence is and must be. In commenting on the study, the Ministry of Defence says that they can be explained in part with weaknesses in the management process, both at the overall level and in the project organisation. It is also pointed out by the Department that some of the deviations, both in cost and delivery time, are due to changes in the projects being made along the way. That's probably true, and in some cases it's probably also necessary, for example. in the light of technological developments, etc., it is also important that such changes be documented and justified through the course of the project, as the Ministry also agrees. Then we must expect this to be introduced as a routine hereafter. When we have delays of up to eight years, it must also be said that if the reason for such delays were to be changes in the orders along the way, it raises questions about the quality of the investment decision in the first round, whether it has been good enough. Where there is a need for such substantial changes in the course of the process that purchases are delayed by several years and up to 50 pst., it is at least necessary to document thoroughly the changes and the basis for the change decisions. The Committee has noted that the Defence’s joint project management system, PRINSIX, will provide consistent and effective management of investments, including: by clarifying the responsibilities. The system was introduced in the mid-1990s, so it should have helped to avoid the major deviations that this study has revealed. Therefore, there is reason to be concerned about the adequacy of the improvements made by this system. Now it is to be added that the new system, PRINSIX, first became fully operational from October 2005. So we still have to see if it meets the expectations, as the committee points out in the vote. So the expression ‘it remains to be seen’ expresses a certain skepticism. It has obviously taken a long time to develop this system and, in the meantime, numerous and serious errors have been made in relation to large and important material investments, which have meant both delays and exceedances of costs. Let me underline what the committee is finally saying in its position. We assume that the improvement of procedures for investment in defence equipment will be an important issue in the case in which the Stortinget has asked the Government to present, and that it will make it visible how the governance of the defence economy is to be recovered. I am sure that both the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence take note of the seriousness of this, also in the light of the current audit report.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1061	I fully agree with the sharp criticism that the case rapporteur made in his speech. When I choose to take the floor, it is because this case has a serious nature that makes us from SV also want to elaborate a little bit of what the rapporteur was about. That's the way it's done wrong. That this can happen is something we have to live with, both in public and in private. Overshoots can be made in a budget, and delays can occur in dealing with different issues. In the case of the defence, it is time and again – it seems as if there will be no end to it – exceedances and poor control. We have to ask ourselves what the reason for that is. As the rapporteur pointed out, few organisations are so systematically structured, with clear governance signals and clear governance procedures, such as the Defence Agency. So you feel like everything seems to be out of control. I therefore believe that we in Stortinget must expect the Minister of Defence to take action on this and ensure that both procedures and accountability are reviewed, so that we do not get the same discussions when the Riksrevision presents a new report in a few years' time. In the report, there are, among other things: mentioned that the ability of the Coast Guard to perform a good job has been greatly reduced due to the lack of governance in the Defence. We know the importance of the Coast Guard. We've seen it in recent times, in the north and in other parts of our country. We see that formidable amounts are actually being wasted because one has not been able to establish the necessary procedures in the defense. Finally, on the SV side, I would like to repeat that we believe this is a very serious matter. We expect our government to give high priority to this, so that the defense's ability to control the investments in the future can be remedied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1074	I can probably join in all of what Inge Ryan said. Otherwise, I think the case rapporteur presented the arguments in this case in an excellent way, and I refer to what we from the Progress Party have pointed out almost to boredom, that the department has been out of control. Our trust in the new state council is great. We therefore hope that you can change this and do it much better. We'll see. I hope and believe, so far. What has marked material investment in defence is shortsightedness and misinvestment. It is purchased material – we can point to e.g. artillery and tanks, i.e. investments for billions of dollars – which, after a very short time, from a perspective, date out. Among other things, there is a purchase of artillery for which there is no shooting. So it's not possible to shoot with the artillery, because you're no longer getting what you're going to put in it. So you don't train people to deal with this, so after two years you have to shut down the whole system. It's costing billions of dollars, so it's direct misinvestment. I call it short-sightedness and poor advice to the Council of State and the Department, for advice on what to invest in must come from a professional team, and it is the Defense itself. So it's not very good looking that way. It also points to a very important issue: the radar of our vessels. It was a direct failure purchase. One could not use that radar, it turned out, when it was installed – or it might not have been installed at all, because it was therefore useless. We can frame up a lot of things like this that suggest that we've spent billions of dollars in defense of direct misinvestments. And what's the consequence of this? Well, it's the most serious thing we can point out in terms of defence: it's the operational capability of the defense. It has been weakened through this for a number of years, and has gone from skilful to shaky. It is so serious that I think the Council of State should note that all these investments go directly beyond the operational capability of the Defence. Now, the report has pointed out all these weaknesses and what has been done and not done, so we might be able to look forward and hope for improvement. That's why I now put my trust in the Council of State. We can point to urgent things that we'll need in the future in the short term. We need new fighter planes. We need new surveillance planes. Several of the surveillance planes are of such a nature that we have to change the wings on them. Those wings don't exist, because the planes are so old they don't produce wings for them anymore. We have transport planes that don't fly at all. If they are to fly, they have to fly at a very low capacity and preferably not into turbulence, because then it can happen that the wings just go off. So bad are these things that are so essential to the defense and to our fighting ability. And the army is very much lacking in modern weapons. This report, of course, does not point to – these are things that we are looking forward to – but I hope the Council of State will grasp it quite quickly. This is a relationship that we in the Progress Party have been pointing to for years, and that is now starting to really tower up. It stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it stops, it On the other hand, the marine defense has got new weapons, new platforms are on their way, etc. Very good and very interesting. But from my point of view, everything else – army and air – is so poorly thought out that it's almost so that you can have grit on your back. So it's going to be interesting to hear if the Council of State in its statement can say something about these relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1087	Like the rapporteurs and the other speakers, the Central Party will also state that it is with concern that we have read this report and the description given by the National Audit Office. It is of course extremely regrettable that we from this pulpit are referred to figures that show that not only a small part, but a significant part of the investment that has been made is not in proportion to what we have been suggested. And when the economic part is exceeded by more than 50 pst., everyone understands that you are facing a very difficult situation. It's pointed out that this is unfortunate. It is unlucky economically, but not least it is unfortunate for the positive ‘stand’ that the defence has had and has in the Norwegian people. There is reason to be concerned, too, because there are people who feel that trust is significantly impaired. When you look at the regrettable situation that the Coast Guard came up with in this system of air alarm radar that did not work, and see it in the context of the situation we have and have had in the Barents Sea, where the focus is on our sovereignty, presence, resource controls and rescue operations, it is very difficult to have a positive relationship with what is described. But let us, despite what has been referred to, take inwards that there is a project management system that is to provide a coherent governance, an effective overview of the investments made, and a clarification of responsibilities. That is why the Central Party has confidence in the Minister of Defence and the Defence Management. Based on what we have registered from actions undertaken in a number of areas, we have good reason to believe – and we choose to believe – that there will be significant improvements in the time to come. And it is important that the Minister of Defence keeps Stortinget constantly informed about the improvements that are taking place in the future, because today and tomorrow, defence is facing significant modernisation projects that make this good control very important. With these comments, the Central Party will recommend the current setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1102	I have listened with interest to both the case rapporteur and SV's representative Inge Ryan, the Progress Party's Per Ove Width and the Central Party's Alf Ivar Samuelsen. I take the things that are pointed to, very seriously, and shall do my very best to follow up what the Storting asks for. I still want to say something about this report. The National Audit Office has carried out a thorough review of some of the material acquisition projects that have been in the Defence Department, but mainly from the 1990s. In the preparation of the report, there has been good cooperation between the Defence and the National Audit Office. As several, in particular the case-rapporteur, pointed out, many of the acquisitions of the defence are so demanding that they are to be used in a demanding environment, and they are often at the forefront of technology. This leads to the use of advanced and newly developed technologies. At the same time, the acquisitions shall be harmonised with operational requirements. This makes acquisitions complex, and this again introduces uncertainty in the projects. This uncertainty may lead to delays and may lead to increased costs, or the level of ambition cannot be fully realised. It is therefore also important, as many have pointed out, that uncertainty is controlled so that the best possible result can be achieved in terms of costs, benefits and time. The complexity combined with long-term projects can lead to the parallel introduction of new technologies. This may lead to delays in delivery, without necessarily characterising it as a negative deviation. An example of this is the upgrade of P-3C Orion, where new technologies and in-flight extraction were just introduced during the project period. The defense has also undergone a major conversion. This change has also had consequences for some projects. When the concept of operation revolves around being adapted to an invasion defence for an intervention defence, it has consequences for the material acquired. The National Audit Office has found shortcomings or deviations in part of its major projects in terms of time, quality and costs. A lot of people have been into it. And I would like to stress that deviations and deficiencies are initially serious. Nevertheless, in some contexts, the Ministry and the National Audit Office interpret these deviations somewhat differently. But the differences here are well presented in the report. Over the last few years, the defence has taken a number of measures to improve the follow-up. In 1994, a new procurement legislation was introduced, which was revised in 2005. In addition, external quality control was introduced in 2000 for all projects in excess of 500 million. kr. Uncertainty management supervisors have been developed; uncertainty analyses are being developed on the projects. A new investment concept has been put in place and, in particular, the development of the competence of project managers has been strongly influenced by the certification of these. However, as the rapporteur and others were involved, the Government will come back to these measures in the communication to be submitted to the Stortinget at the end of March/early in April on financial management in Defence. The document will include, inter alia: address part of the issues raised by the Riksrevision in respect of material investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1117	That much of the defence equipment has to be replaced, there is no doubt about it. The representative Width mentioned many examples of the need for defence in his introduction. In this connection, I have some comments to make to the Council of State regarding equipment that is being replaced. Over the years we have replaced some equipment, and the use of that equipment, whether it has been destroyed, thrown or given away, has been somewhat different. We have seen both successful and less successful use. One of the worst examples in my time was when we started scrapping BV 202 cars. There the defense was supposed to get rid of quite a lot, and then you just started to chop up equipment that might have just run all the way down to 20 kilometers. Fortunately, after a while, the Progress Party stopped it, so that this type of vehicle is now in e.g. Red Cross, in forest fire etc. So there are other levels of equipment that the defense can use. We have also seen that outsourced equipment has simply been left out and destroyed because the defense cannot afford to store it indoors – fully usable equipment that others can use, either private, as said, or state institutions and organisations, or it can be used as emergency aid. In this connection, I have the prayer to the Council of State that she must be very aware that the equipment that is being replaced as we can afford it will be taken care of, and that it will be examined whether others may need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1134	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 3-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1171	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to initiate a review of the organisation and provision of municipal social services to drug users and to develop guidance, tools and models to contribute to greater systematic and knowledge of the work of local authorities in order to improve the follow-up of drug users in municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1201	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1240	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-02.ana.ud1938e1297	There is no record.
