ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e51	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Then the president proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e62	For the government party, fiscal policy is very important. His design has a lot to say about what kind of distribution policy we get in our society. The Government Party will work for a tax system such as this. provides stable revenues and helps to ensure a fair distribution. Moreover, there is a great deal to say that fiscal policy is contributing to the promotion of employment and that he is helping to improve the way in which the economy operates. The Government’s statement states that the tax system should contribute to a fairer distribution of income in society to a greater extent than is the case today. This work is the government party in full swing. We are concerned that business should have a stable and competitive environment. It also applies in the field of taxation. The government party has had and has a different tax policy course than the Bondevik II government had. We have rejected the extensive tax burden of the former government parties and the Progress Party in the Stortinget. As part of efforts to strengthen the distribution profile and create a basis for more well-being in our society, the Government Party has committed itself to maintaining the overall level of taxation from 2004. This promise is being fulfilled through the financial situation and the tax position that we are now debating. In practice, this gives us $12 billion more to do well-being than the previous government would have. A clear consequence of this policy is that there will be a strong focus next year on the construction of kindergartens, on strengthening care for the elderly and on providing good training in the primary school and on good further training. It is also gratifying that in 2007 we will have enough funds to provide a strong boost for road and rail development. It is a policy that greatly benefits our working and business life. There is a clear redistribution in the government's tax regime. Those who care little are going to pay less tax than those who think a lot. In general, persons who have a gross income of less than NOK 400000 receive tax relief or unchanged tax. Those who have an income above this level receive tax increases. Of course, the largest is the tax increase for taxable persons with income in excess of 1 million. kr. In particular, the tightening of top taxes and wealth taxes mean that people with high incomes and high wealth have to give more to the community. On the other hand, increased interest on the minimum deduction will facilitate tax payers with lower income and thus result in an even better distribution profile than before. The party of progress is at a completely different price from the government party, even when it is in fiscal policy. They give tax relief to all income groups. But it's the taxpayers with the highest incomes that get the most deciduous. We're working to reduce differences in society. The party of progress is making proposals that will make the difference between people greater than he is today. That's what we think is directly unsocial. In a large part of the cases mentioned in the Odelstinget recommendation, there is a discrepancy between the parties. As spokesman for the case, I would like to comment on some of the issues that are at issue. Otherwise, I refer you to the article by Mr Micasen later in the debate. For the current fiscal year, young people under education who only have income of NOK 30 000 will not be taxed. The next year, there will be a positive change in this area for those seeking education. The so-called credit card limit will be increased to NOK 40,000. It improves the conditions for people who qualify for work. The desire of the young has been expressed for a long time; now there is a great lift. The change made to the free card limit is also in accordance with one of the promises contained in the Government Declaration. The Progress Party proposes a significant extension of the regime beyond what the Multiplicity advocates. The deduction of the trade union quota has long been a dispute theme in Stortinget. That's the way it is now. For 2006, the deduction is $2,250. The Party of Progress and the Left disagree with the fact that the whole system exists. As a consequence, the two parties suggest that the current paragraph of the tax laws be repealed. The right-hand side means that the deduction should be set to NOK 1800. The Christian People's Party proposes to increase its annual deduction by DKK 100. The majority support the Government’s proposal to increase the deduction of a 20 pst trade union quota to NOK 2700. In this way, a new and important step will be taken towards fulfilling the promise made in the Government Declaration to double the trade-union deduction in relation to the level until 1 January 2006. The deduction of provisions for joint and several party capital in certain cooperatives is another matter for which there are differing views in the Financial Committee. The current system of deductions was introduced in the context of the 1992 tax reform. The aim was to continue a tax advantage for cooperatives because they have less access to external own funds than other forms of enterprise, for example. a limited liability company. The deduction scheme was discontinued under the Bondevik II government, with effect from the income year 2005. The Government proposes the reintroduction of the right to deduct from the provisions of the joint eight-party capital of certain cooperative undertakings. It gives the enterprises concerned a tax advantage. Thus, one counteracts the disadvantage that cooperatives have in acquiring equity in relation to other forms of company. This reverses the decision taken in the previous period following the initiative of the dwindling government. The majority of the Committee proposes that the deductions from provisions for joint eight party capital in certain co-operative undertakings should also include housing structures. This will lead to equality with the wider interoperability of agricultural, fisheries and consumer sectors. The decision made by Odelsting in this matter later today cannot be implemented until there has been a clarification in relation to the aid rules of the EEA Agreement. That is why the implementation of the decision cannot take place from the beginning of the year. However, even if the decision is taken later in 2007, it will be available for the whole of the next year. Right, Christian People's Party and Left are opposed to the recommendation from the majority in the Committee on this matter. So they stick to the opinion that they had in the government position. In this way, they believe to achieve a greater degree of fiscal non-discrimination between cooperatives and enterprises organised in another way. In the case of individual pension savings tax clearance, IPA, and annuities, there are clearly different points of view in the Financial Committee. The majority largely support the proposal in the proposal. The rest of the committee members, who make up the minority, disagree with the government's proposal. It was in St.meld. No 2 for 2005-2006 that the Government announced a tightening of the tax favouring of the pension savings schemes that go beyond the law on pension contributions, the law on corporate pension, other statutory pension schemes and public pension schemes in employment. The government suggests in Ot. pp. No 1 for 2006-2007, the right to deduct individual pension savings has been abolished with effect from 12 May 2006. Furthermore, it is proposed to abolish the property tax exemption for individual annuities and to abolish the exemption from the taxation of the remuneration of collective annuities paid by employers. Consequently, the employee will be taxed on the amount of the premium as remuneration. The introduction of a compulsory service pension in 2006 ensures virtually all workable rights to tax-advanced pension savings through employment or industry. There is a very central point in assessing the changes proposed by the Government for IPA and annuities. Those who are not satisfied with the Government’s proposal stress that normal wage earners are being hard hit by the removal of the tax deduction on individual pension contracts. On the other hand, analysts show that the government proposal has good distribution effects: nearly 40 pst. of the increase in taxation by abolishing IPA falls on the proportion of the population with the highest income. Half of the population with the lowest income is charged 15 pst. of the tax revenue. The explanation for this breakdown is that people with high incomes make use of IPA to a greater extent than others and that people with high incomes have consistently saved higher amounts. The capital value of annuities is subject to the current tax-free assets. The exemption applies to both individual and collective annuities. Annuity schemes can be considered more as a savings product than as a pension saving. The reason for this is that there is no requirement for a defined retirement age, but a requirement that the contract lasts for a certain period. There are no limits on the amount of the payments and they can therefore be used as more short-term capital positions. The Government Party strongly emphasises that different forms of financial saving should be treated equally for tax purposes. The exemption from property taxes on funds placed in annuity policies leads to tax discrimination. Annuities are thus favored in relation to other forms of financial saving. When the Government proposes to liquidate the property tax exemption for individual annuities, this results in an increase in property tax. So a person has to be in the property tax position to get the tax advantage of the scheme. The distribution of wealth and taxes in taxes on wealth means that such a change will greatly affect people with the highest income and wealth. Collective annuities are mainly used by employers to ensure supplementary pension rights for some groups of enterprises. The government proposes that a tax liability be imposed on the employee when the employer pays the premium. There is a central point in the matter that collective annuities are a system that is primarily designed for high-income groups. Therefore, there is reason to believe that there is good distributive effect on the elimination of this tax favour. Calculations simply show that 80 pst. the tax tightening of the annuity scheme falls on people with over DKK 1 million of annuity. The Government Party joins the Government’s proposal in respect of IPA and annuities, with the exception of two transitional rules. Instead, the proposal for two new transitional rules will be put forward, cf. proposal for tax law § 6-47, first paragraph, point (c) and proposal for tax law § 6-47, first paragraph, point (d). The purpose of the amendment is to authorise the Ministry to issue a regulation. This allows the Ministry of Finance to adapt the content of the above-mentioned rules and their implementation to the clarification of a possible future savings scheme. When the majority of the financial committee makes the change mentioned in the government proposal, it has its background in the work of the Stortingen with new pension reform. If there is a collective pension agreement, the government party commits itself to establishing a private individual pension savings net of tax. The scope and timing of the implementation of the new scheme is part of the pension negotiations. The government will, if appropriate, submit proposals for such a savings scheme in the context of the revised national budget for 2007. The right to save in IPA police and individual and collective annuities is passed on without tax advantages in 2007. On the basis of this extensive presentation and of what has been stated in the written proposal, I suggest that Odelstinget joins the configuration of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e134	In the Soria Moria statement, the government said that the excess of health care should not be increased, but kept at a low level. In the 2007 red-green budget, they increase the balance of payments by 160 million. kr. These are taxes, taxes on sickness, and well suited as the theme of today's debate. The Federal Director of the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, Svein Erik Myrseth, points out that the increased excesses mainly affect the chroniclers. He goes on to say that the increase is a regular violation of the Soria Moria statement. Does the representative Sandal agree with the head of the LHL that the government has broken the Soria Moria declaration, when the excesses are increasing, or are increased excesses in health services the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e139	Of course, it is not the case that the Government has put forward proposals that break the declaration on the basis of which it governs. What is the main line of the Government's policy in this area is that the characteristics should generally be kept to a minimum and that there should be no more growth in them than the price and cost developments in society in general. It is the government’s general view, and it has also been used as a norm for the work done in connection with the 2007 government budget. I am therefore not in agreement with the appointed representative of Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e144	The representative Sandal stated in his statement that the tax proposals of the Government provided for a better distribution, and also mentioned in a recommendation that it could stimulate employment. I then have to ask the representative Sandal what proposals it is from the Government that stimulate employment and which specifically stimulate ownership and saving in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e149	The government is proposing a budget proposal aimed primarily at finding the balance point between an offensive effort to take care of the jobs it has and at laying the groundwork for creating new ones. It is also a matter of government's economic policy that he should be responsible and not dominate the development of our society, so that we frame the workplaces that exist. This is the main answer to the problem raised by the fleet representative. We conduct a responsible economic policy, we inspire investment in the private sector, and we facilitate an offensive commitment to welfare policy in different parts of the country. All in all, it's all about speeding up the development of society, and that's why this is also important for our country to go as well as it does now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e154	The representative Sandal was pleased with the increase in the trade union deduction. We heard that, and we also realize that we have more in store. Last year, the Bondevik II government proposed to increase the limit on deductions to non-governmental organisations. The increase in that deduction was reversed by the majority here in the hall, using the red-green voices. It also stands still for next year, according to the decision we are going to take later today, while the trade union deduction is increasing quite sharply. What should we read out of such a priority on the part of the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e163	What we're going to read out of this is that the government delivers what she's promised. In the government statement we say that the union quota is to be doubled during the period. We have made two contributions in that direction, and we are on the right track. I am pleased to note that the Christian People's Party is also on that road. In its alternative budget proposal, the Christian People’s Party proposes that the trade union deduction be increased by DKK 100. When it comes to voluntary organisations, it is right that no change has been proposed in relation to the situation for 2006. We didn't promise that either. So there's no lifting break from our side, as it might be given the impression. But we are concerned that voluntary organisations should have good working conditions, and that is what we observe in the ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e170	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e174	The fact that the party proposes to reduce taxes, taxes and public intervention substantially, reduce taxes and cut red tape hardly surprises anyone. But despite the fact that the Progress Party has claimed exactly the same thing for 33 years, I don't think many in this Chamber understand or want to understand the dynamics of the Economic Policy of the Progress Party. There are two main reasons why the Progress Party wants a reduced level of taxation. Firstly, people will have to keep more of their own income, so that they can define and decide more about their own well-being and about their own cultural activities. We say this because we know that people have different needs and that these vary throughout their lives. In other words, what is defined as good welfare or culture for one person is not necessarily perceived in the same way by another. While one person may feel that a football match with friends is good welfare, another feels that a theatre show with Ibsen ensures the best welfare. While one believes that annual trips to the South are good welfare, another believes that saving their money to give them inheritance to their children is better well-being. While one person would feel that a visit to the swimming pool is good welfare, another would feel that a visit to the library is better. While one may feel that a visit to the pub is well-being, another feels that a visit to the Philadelphia community is better well-being. Let's use a thoughtful example of how misguided the government's so-called commitment to culture and well-being can turn off. Many young people today are often willing to pay $1,000 for a ticket to a rock concert or a football match, but at the same time, the few of the same people want to go to the opera, for example. When the rock enthusiast is willing to pay the full price for his ticket, the Progress Party does not think he or she should at the same time subsidize the ticket to the politically correct culture, which, for example, the Opera represents. Such redistribution of the resources of society means that those who participate in the broad culture pay not only full price for their own ticket but also subsidises the opera ticket for people who are largely able to pay for their own activities. Such a policy is twice unfair and helps people to finance the elite of society, or to use red-green rhetoric: Take from those who have the least, and give to those who have the most from before. The Progress Party will not judge people’s definition of well-being but will leave this decision to the individual. We do not want Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg to confiscate people's earnings, so that these two can rediscover the money for welfare tasks or culture that they think is most legitimate. The second main reason why the Progress Party wants lower taxes and taxes is the benefit of creating a more dynamic economic policy. We believe in the simple message, that people will provide more and offer more of their labour if you keep more of your own income. In fact, we believe that people's work in the workplace is primarily motivated by what is left in the wallet after the tax is paid. Just as the market knows that more people want to work if you get paid NOK 100 per hour instead of NOK 1 per hour, we think that very few people would bother to work if the government confiscated NOK 99 in the tax of each hundred bill you earned. In fact, we believe that people's efforts at work and people's supply of labour depend on what they have left after Kristin Halvorsen has taken up his job. Unlike Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg, we do not believe that most people are motivated to work on the basis of promises of public welfare schemes. So when the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman, Schjött-Pedersen, talks about some parties wanting to spend money on tax relief, while others want to spend it on welfare, this is a political short cut. So-called tax relief is nothing more than that one leaves to demand the income of employees. So the choice is not between tax relief and well-being, but whether Schjøtt-Pedersen or each of them are best suited for their own well-being. But such links seem completely alien to socialists with a fundamental distrust of the individual and an elevated belief in their own ability to make decisions for others. Thus, the tax policy of the Progress Party is twofold: at macroeconomic level, we are not asking whether we can afford to provide tax relief, but whether we can afford not to. At a micro-economic or individual level, we do not ask whether one or another welfare measure is most relevant, but we want each individual to have the opportunity to define his or her own well-being or culture. The Party's tax and tax arrangements have a mechanism that makes it particularly those with low and medium incomes that receive the greatest relief, and that is, of course, relative. It is not right, as the representative Sandal points out, that the Progress Party is giving tax relief to those who have the most from before. It's not like that. Obviously, if you have 1 million. NOK in income, already NOK 500000 – NOK 600 000 are already paid in taxes. With our tax system, those who already pay a lot of taxes will also get relatively more taxed. With the arrangement of the Progress Party, one that makes $1 million. NOK, get NOK 7 000 in the tax bill, while one who makes NOK 200000 will get NOK 4000 in the tax bill. So it's those with low and medium incomes that will get the most benefits from our tax system. In the examples we present in our alternative budget, a two-income family with a total of NOK 500,000 in income will receive almost NOK 15 000 in tax reliefs. In a family where the total income is DKK 800000, the total tax relief will be higher than NOK 18000. In order to achieve this, the Progress Party proposes major real increases in the minimum deduction and in the deduction. We therefore propose that the tax credit in class 1 increases from NOK 37 000 to NOK 40 000 and from NOK 74 000 to NOK 80 000 in class 2. We also propose that the minimum deduction be increased from NOK 63 800 to NOK 72 000 at the same rate as today. We also want the pensioners to have the same minimum deduction. Furthermore, we give the minimum pensioners a real boost and propose an increase of NOK 13 000, so that they no longer have to live below the OECD poverty line. The Progress Party is moving forward against the Government's proposal to make more and more employees top valuers. A limit of DKK 400000 on top taxes will mean that teachers, nurses and a number of public employees will now have even more of their income confiscated. These are professional groups who like to have high student loans and who have hardly considered themselves particularly rich before Kristin Halvorsen informed them about it. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the peak tax entry point in step 1 be increased to NOK 430000 and in step 2 to NOK 750000. In the case of young people and students, the Advance Party proposes to increase the free-card limit to NOK 70 000. This will stimulate young people and others to provide their labour force, while making it more possible for students to finance their own daily lives. In the case of capital taxes, the Progress Party proposes to increase the entry point for inheritance taxes to NOK 500000, and we want to increase the asset tax base to NOK 300000. We remember that this is money that has already been taxed – yes, often many times. The Party wishes, in principle, to cover the actual costs incurred by the public in connection with the service provided. Today, unfortunately, most people, almost without exception, pay far more than what the service costs to produce. However, such cost overviews do not exist in the Ministry of Finance, and they are relatively eye-catching in themselves. Norway is at the top of the world with regard to charging. Despite the fact that we have 1,713 billion oil crowns on the book, an innumerable amount of more or less well-founded fees are maintained – some historical, some are justified for environmental reasons, and others are purely fiscal. The Progress Party wants to clean up the various charges with a view to removing the unwarranted charges that are of little economic importance, creating bureaucracy, and which is largely just irritating to people most. Regardless of this, we believe that the tax burden is too high, and we want to reduce this significantly. Not least, we want this to make business conditions more attractive, while at the same time reducing taxes could lead to more moderate wage-fixing. Reduced fee pressure is, in other words, a win-win situation for AS Norway. The Progress Party further proposes to increase the special deduction for the elderly and the disabled and to increase the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations. The Progress Party also proposes the introduction of a tax exemption for personal training cards paid by the employer. The latter tax exemption will stimulate physical activity and therefore be preventive of disease absenteeism. The budget adopted by the Stortinget on Tuesday went through a number of beauty operations before it was adopted. We have experienced that the predictions of sick leave have changed dramatically over a few hectic weeks, we have learned that diesel emissions from recreational boats are no longer so polluting, we have had changes in the introduction of the NOx tax, and we have seen fiscal spokesperson in the Workers' Party, Schjøtt-Pedersen, in free dressage as a strong defender of both publicly paid life courses and the voluntary sector. But despite this, the budget is still full of unwise and petty tax increases. A successful scheme to stimulate private business to increase its commitment to research and development has been tightened up. The FUNN tax scheme will now be subject to a standardised hourly rate, which will, of course, make the scheme less attractive. This is unwise and will prevent the best and most expensive heads from being used for research and development. The Progress Party will therefore oppose this change. Nor will the party of progress impose stricter environmental requirements for our marine industry than those in our competing countries, and we will therefore oppose the introduction of a strange NOx tax. Finally, I would like to re-examine the proposals of the Financial Committee which the Progress Party has promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e229	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e234	In any case, the party of progress is steadfast in one area. The lot turns with tax relief to all income groups, but the distribution is very uneven. That shows the position we are now debating, and we also saw that during the financial debate on 28 November. Those who tend to be the least receive little tax relief – approx. $1,800. The big fish, the ones that weigh over 1 million. kr, the big winners in the Progress Party will be their scheme, and I will show you in the context of the material we have received, and the calculations made after the Progress Party has provided its alternative budget. The social profile is very biased – it is easier given to those in the world who have the best advice. The party of progress is crying out loud that they are partying most people – in tax policy they are the richest of their best friends. I therefore ask Mr Tybring-Gjedde, how can he defend such an unsocial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e243	I record that the representative Sandal is dealing with old-fashioned rhetoric against the Advance Party, and nothing is further from the truth. As I said in my post, a person who makes $1 million. kr, already pays 0.5 million today. kr to the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, so that they can make this available to them. This person will have a tax return of NOK 7 000. A person who makes $200,000 will get $4,000 in taxes. It's relatively much higher than the person who makes 1 million. kr, sheep. The representative Sandal should understand that too. In addition to tax relief on employee income, we also provide a number of tax reliefs. In particular, they will go to those who are at least already, for the fees are justifiable, and they are all affected. It is clear that when we give relief in the taxes on cars, on petrol, on alcohol and on VAT on food – which we do not want to increase, but which the Workers' Party wants to increase – our tax policy will, of course, lead to a great deal for most people and for those who have the least in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e250	SV has always – in all my years of politics – said that abstinences on illness are taxes on sickness, and that tax should be lowered. We also say that in the Soria Moria statement. Now I hear that Christian Tybring-Gjedde also calls excesses "tax on disease". Is he serious? Does he really mean it, or is it empty rhetoric? Let me ask a hypothetical question to Christian Tybring-Gjedde: if next year the government lowers the tax on sickness, excesses, and increases other taxes to finance this, can we be sure that the Progress Party does not come continuously and say that this is a violation of the tax promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e257	If there is any party in this magnification that has gone against taxes on sickness, or increased excesses, then it is the Progress Party. That is at least what is inherited from John I. Alvheim, and that should be known by the representative Holmås despite the fact that he is young. John I. Alvheim fought against increased prowess. He fought to reduce them. It was one of his heart matters, and it is also the Policy of the Advancement Party. I cannot go into a hypothetical debate on the 2008 budget. I hope the representative Holmås understands that. If we're going to start with that, we can get an interesting debate. But on a general basis, I can say that the Progress Party will support all the reduced abstinences to disease, which are often defined as ‘tax on disease’ – if SV is interested in that concept, I can rely on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e264	The representative Tybring-Gjedde said that the opposition only used ‘old-fashioned rhetoric’. I want to challenge the representative to clarify the priorities, so that in case we can modernise the rhetoric. If the Progress Party were to come into a situation where they had to give priority to their tax reliefs, it would give priority to its reductions in the proportions – which are an important point – in relation to tax reliefs, for example in relation to those with wealth, the representative could set out a priority order in three points, first, second and third. What comes first in the policy of the Progress Party if such a situation should arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e271	For the Progress Party, tax relief is not a cost. That is where we fundamentally disagree. That's where Lundtigen's and others' rhetoric goes wrong. For the Progress Party, tax incentives contribute to increased well-being. As paradoxical as it sounds, if we lower taxes, people will contribute more labour, and if we lower taxes in business, the activity in business will also increase. Several will start businesses, several will work and generate increased income for the country. The kind of priorities are old-fashioned, and Lundtigen goes right in the trap that I warned against, the old-fashioned rhetoric. We are living in 2006, and I have to say that we have a dynamic global economy where tax relief contributes, and we are competing all over the world. If we increase the tax by $1, we don't have to spend $1 on welfare. That's not how it works. By reducing the tax, we can get increased tax revenue and revenue to the state. It's pretty hard to understand, but that's how it relates in a global world economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e278	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e281	The level of taxation is important for industrial policy and in the context of value creation, not only in the context of distribution, as the Workers' Party spokesperson mentioned in his introduction. What's going to be the difference here is what you think about these framework conditions. For the right, the level of taxation is very much about the contribution that will be made to solving the challenges that the country continues to face. The representative Sandal's introduction, and not least the financial debate on Tuesday, gives the impression that there are no more challenges for the Norwegian economy and that you can almost just surf into the sunset. The right-hand objectives of fiscal policy are primarily that it should pay off to work. Therefore, we reduce the tax on ordinary employee income. At a time of great pressure in the labour market, this is important. We do that by reducing the minimum deduction for everyone with salary and pension income. It is important that pensioners also enjoy the reduction of taxes. We also propose in our alternative proposal that people between 67 and 70 years of age can retain the pension no matter how much they work alongside. People are getting older, they want to work more, and this is important to increase the supply of work. We also reduce the top tax according to the Government's proposal, and pay adjusts the maximum tax limit to NOK 412000, and reverses the Government's new step 2 limit of NOK 650000 back to NOK 750000. These changes will result in 65 000 lower peak rates, and about the same number will drop higher peak rates. When 150 000 people in the labour market will receive an additional fee, this means a lot to the job offer. It's not that this is simply a loss of well-being, it means increased tax revenue by inspiring people to work more. It is the kind of tax reduction that is important in the tight labour market we have. We are amazed that the Government, as usual, worries about labour supply, is so little willing to see the relationship between benefits and efforts between citizens and the state. In addition, we believe that savings should be made. That is why we are promoting proposals that make savings, or that is. that we are primarily going to reverse the Government's proposal on IPA tightening and saving annuity. When I hear the Workers' Party spokesman today use about the same arguments that the Government originally used to remove these savings, I get a little worried that you don't mean anything with the negotiations and conversations that are taking place in relation to the pension agreement. You always use words as ‘if any’ to change, and that ‘may’ be possible. The main arguments are still that this is something the rich have enjoyed. It has been documented from, among others. the insurance companies, for the reason that the ministry itself did not have information available, that there are very many common people saving in these schemes, and it goes without saying when there are 830,000 who do. With regard to the majority comments that the government parties have subsequently made as a rescue operation to save the situation, I have to ask the Labour Party or the Finance Minister here today to state that this means the continuation of all three schemes, not only the IPA scheme, but also the individual and collective annuity scheme. Together with this clarification during the debate here today, it must also be confirmed that sufficient transitional rules will be drawn up to ensure all the technical conditions so that there is no unnecessary winding-up of specific individual and collective annuity schemes. This is urgent because due to notice periods, you actually only have one month left. This also intervenes in the wage settlement and has an impact on the parties there. The uncertainty created for depositors, the savers, and for companies, must actually be clarified during this debate. In any case, those who use savings schemes have received a basic deposit, and you understand that the government really does not want you to save. So many people say you want to go to the housing market, and people want to save. But our homes are under double crossfire from the Government, mainly because one increases the equation value every year on dwellings and leisure homes. In addition, property taxes in municipalities have been extended. On the other hand, we have the Center Party, which is seriously discussing removing the interest deduction for dwellings as part of its so-called system change. On the contrary, we want to increase the benefits of saving in housing, especially for young people, and we have proposed to increase the savings limits in the so-called BSU scheme in this budget. It is a practical and good handshake for those entering a costly housing market for the first time. The saving also goes against bad conditions in this country. People who save on unit trusts, shares and other mutual funds are constantly reducing the discounts they had on the equation values. I think the Minister of Finance is going quite far in the budget papers to say that we are going up to 100 pst. in Equation Value. Maybe we'll be happy if that's the limit. The right-hand side believes that investing must pay off. When people own shares in their own enterprise or through unit trusts and property taxes are increased, the conditions of business are deteriorating. Tax is a cost to business whether it falls on the holding itself or on the owners. The opposite is a failing profitability and a failing interest in investing in business. In this budget, taxes on labour, on savings and on ownership have increased. We will pursue a tax policy that increases the growth capacity of the economy and hence future tax revenues. We did that in government. We see that it works. Today's economic situation in Norwegian business is very good evidence of this. This is particularly important at a time when there is a shortage of labour. We also have a number of other proposals that go on to stimulate work. We triple the free amount of the purchase of shares in our own company. We want to get people back to work quickly, and we want to reintroduce the tax exemption for the benefit of the employer's coverage of treatment costs under illness and for treatment insurance. We also oppose the proposed regulatory treatment of the financial items in the petroleum tax. It's unfortunate that the government has gone out with a system that's uncertain about the proceeds. It is produced as a sample neutral, but there is a lot of evidence that this could be up to 600 million. DKK in extra costs for small oil companies. So the Right also proposes to reintroduce the original Svalbard tax payroll scheme. It was unbureaucratic and simpler than the one the Government is offering. Also at Svalbard it is important to recruit for work. We are also proposing to increase depreciation rates on machines. We're dealing with an old SV proposal, which they repeated when they were in opposition. The time in government may have shown the Socialist Left Party that this too is actually a tax relief, and that it has then been put a little bit further down on the list. During a consultation of the Financial Committee this week on framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, there is relatively good evidence that generational shifts in families are now taking place in a different way. Companies do not go so far to the new generations, so it is important to do something about the inheritance fee. It's complicated in today's society to run even smaller businesses. It is often a lifestyle, more than a job, and therefore it is important to stimulate new generations to continue the family business. That is why we are referring to the proposal for a write-down mechanism over time. We think this will be a very good move to get people to carry on with the family businesses, which very often produce good results. As a conclusion, I would say that leaning on the achievements of economic policy, rarely is the way to lasting success, as one might get the impression when one hears the Workers' Party. There are darker clouds in the horizon. We see a shortage of labour, we see increases in salary levels, stronger heads and maybe a rate change in interest rates. That's why our tax proposals in this proposition are important. I'm dealing with the suggestions we've made, either alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e315	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e321	The government has brought the level of taxation back to 2004 levels. We use this money to improve care for the elderly, build kindergartens and build and maintain roads, and we improve the content of the school. If the Bondevik government budget for 2006 had been adopted, the level would be 12 billion kroner lower. However, in the Right's alternative budget, they are now only $3.5 billion for 2007. Then I have to ask, where is the last $8.5 billion going to be? Has the Right already left the tax promises of the previous government, and where are the new tax concessions that the Right said to the Norwegian people that they should propose and have adopted? Don't you make a right account without a host?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e328	It is a pleasure to hear that the representative of Klungland is impatient after several tax reliefs. We carried out very large tax reliefs in our government period, about NOK 23 billion. We did so in order for business to go better, for tax revenues to increase, and for the representative of Klungland to be able to stand here today and tell us what they have spent on increasing tax revenues — on increased well-being, on schools, on kindergartens, etc. That's the way our tax policy works. Then there will be a difference in the amount of the amounts each year, but our rate is given. It is to the extent that it is civil: taxes should be reduced – in contrast to the course on the socialist side, where taxes and charges should be increased each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e335	I was going to challenge the agent Fleet for something else, but I feel I have to follow up where Rolf Terje Klungland left off. Usually you tend to say that government parties are responsible and like to cut down on the ambitions of the time you were in opposition, while you are in opposition, you take it all the way out and go on with what is the primary proposals, and then you click on what is the main promises. It is that the most important promise in the election campaign from the Right was to lower the taxes even more than what you had done in the previous period. We have taken in NOK 12 billion more for distribution and to spend on good welfare. This is more than what the Right had. Is it so that the right is more puzzled in opposition than in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e344	If the representative Holmås with the puzzle believes responsible, then we are. I must also say that it is bold of the representative Holmås to stand here in a tax debate and talk about election vows, when we have a number of broken election vows from the position, where the reference to the opposition, when the announcement comes, is that we shall implement it during the period. The same is true of the Right Tax Lifts. The right has lifted its eyes and looked forward to 2009. We are going to propose tax reductions in all our alternative budgets, and the alternative budgets are going to be the basis when, in 2009, we might go into a government to implement these tax reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e353	We're in an important arena now. The right lost the choice that some people perceived it as getting a colder society when one had such a focus on significant tax relief and privatisation. Now the representative fleet says that one is no more puzzled than what one was in government. One has no new line either. However, there is a clearly different pace and size of the Right Tax proposal in opposition. Is it really that there is no change from the tax regime that contributed to the losses in the default, and what one now presents?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e358	I would like to thank the representative of Lundtigen for his analysis of why the Right lost the election. I have to admit that the Right itself in its analyses has pointed to many different reasons, and I am not so sure whether the level of precision in the analysis of the Centre Party is particularly good. As I said to the representative Holmås, we are going to continue with responsible tax reliefs. But it is a cross-thinking fact that more representatives of the government parties are now calling for greater tax reductions from the Right, while they themselves are increasing taxes. I understand the purpose. You'd like the Right to be on the irresponsible side, so you can use it against us. It's not going to look at that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e368	We in SV have two main objectives of fiscal policy. One is to ensure a fairer distribution, and the other is to encourage more environmentally friendly consumption, more environmentally friendly behaviour of ordinary people and also of business. The third thing on which I am going to come back to is, of course, that in a democracy the taxes are primarily a way of providing revenue to the state, on which the state can distribute to people in common, prioritizing the things that people in common think are right and important. But I'm going to get back to that. Both in terms of achieving a fairer distribution and in terms of achieving more environmentally friendly consumption and behaviour, we are on the way. We increase property taxes and strengthen the distribution profile of property taxes by increasing the deductions from resources and by ensuring the removal of some of the tax exemptions that have been on tax rebates in relation to both shares and other types of funds. In addition, we increase the valuation and the Equation Tariffs of dwellings and property. But it's like we're still increasing the cost of equations less than what's been price developments in recent years, and we still have a ceiling on how much of the values of the equations can account for the market value of the homes, to make sure that everyone can live in their own home without being particularly taxed because of it. The second is that we increase the taxes on employee income, especially for those who make a lot of money. But it's like that half of those who are employees and who make a lot of money, the upper half, now have to pay more taxes and contribute more to the community. At the same time, we give tax relief to people with lower incomes. People who have less than NOK 200,000 in income, for our part, give us the greatest tax relief. In addition, we ensure that young people — especially young people — and people who earn little, like just a job as a newspaperman or a summer job, are given extra tax breaks by increasing the free-card limit. Compared to the top tax, there is one thing I'm a little happy about, namely that depositors are now in a position where the regular representative comes under top tax step 2 and has to pay the top wage tax type. I think it's a right signal to send out from Stortinget that we, who are big business representatives, who have just granted ourselves a salary increase, are also contributing, in particular by paying top tax step 2. In addition, I would like to say the following: we made major changes in the tax rates of the year. We decided that a year ago. First of all, we introduced tax on dividends, which, in our view, is the most important way of contributing to a stronger distribution between households. The tax changes that we're making, and that apply this year, we don't know the full result until the beginning of next year. That's why we're not making any big, dramatic changes in the tax system. That evaluation we have to do next year, before we possibly go further with greater changes than what we see this year. So in addition, we have a stake in the environment. What we do when we pay for the environment is that we make sure that we introduce a CO2 tax on gas used for heating, so that we still make it profitable for people to invest in bio plants, to invest in biofuels, while still maintaining the advantage that exists and that is to be found, by installing gas and using gas for heating rather than using different types of oil. We're taking a big boost, which has been a sin of omission from the previous government. The previous government made sure that in the Stortinget we ratified the Gothenburg Protocol, which was a measure to reduce emissions of NOx, which creates acid rain and destroys fish. Now we introduce a NOx tax, but at the same time we open up agreements with the industry, which the industry has asked for. We remove the electricity charge on rail transport, which strengthens the positive development we have had in terms of freight transport on the road. We are also in the process of the first conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction, which will make it profitable for people to choose environmentally friendly cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e400	The president just wants to notice that she doesn't think it's top-notch step 2 we think about when we wake up in the morning, but there'll be line change for it!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e403	We're going up with joy!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e410	We get hope there's something more positive we think about when we get up in the morning! I register with great interest that the FI spokesperson in SV is talking about fair distribution. Then you have to listen carefully, for all the experience so far in the year this government has ruled shows, among other things. a significant increase in charges — all charges are levied or new charges are found. This actually hits those who already have the least and the least. Isn't it that SV and the Government actually see that when you add the fees, it's just the ones that have little, that actually have to bleed the most? It's true that if you're very rich, you don't notice much about these fees, which actually hit the blind. So I would like an explanation of how this can relate in the rhetoric about a so-called fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e418	When looking at the fair or unfair nature of a tax regime, you have to include all the elements of the tax regime, include all the taxes and all the tax bills and add up. That's where we've presented a fair, fair distribution profile, with the layout we've presented here. Here, all the people who have less than NOK 200,000 are getting increased relief in taxes and taxes overall. In addition, the extra taxes that we collect into the community, we use them in such a way that they benefit people with poor advice. We'll lower the nursery rates. We've done that now, and we have an ambition to keep doing that. We have made sure to start a real package for the poor, and we have made sure to remove a good part of the fees that are there. What's most unsocial about the arrangement put forward by the Progress Party is that the party's policy would lead to an interest rate increase that would probably be so large that it would really turn out socially unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e427	I scrambled a little early today when Stortinget had a meeting and SV did not vote against raising the gross salary, but I understand that the explanation lies in the tax system we are now dealing with in Odelstinget, and that a down payment of NOK 614 000 is so good at the top tax step 2, which goes into NOK 650 000, that it is good enough for SV. Count the one that can count! That's not what I want an answer to. What I want to answer is a more interesting and important question, namely that the tax level is down to the 2004 level up to and including 2007. That means that the government can't reduce the tax even more if they don't break the Soria Moria statement. This will allow for a tax shift to green taxes from 2008. At my discretion, a credible tax system shift, over to more green taxes, must be based on the fact that one also reduces the equivalent on labour taxation, preferably at the bottom of the lowest income. Can we expect, with SV in the Finance Minister's chair and a sparkling politician like Holmås in Stortinget, that we can get a real tax shift from 2008 onwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e434	It's just one thing to answer that, and it's yes! Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e439	Thank you, then I am pleased!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e444	Yes, but I have to say one more thing, so even though Sponheim is a freak who stands there and interrupts! That's the following: it's very interesting that Sponheim takes this up, because we invite the Storting, the social partners, the business community and others to join in saying: OK, from now until 2009 there won't be any more debate about whether to lower or increase the tax level, but whether to redistribute. We need to change this tax system in a way that is both more positive for business, which is positive in order to achieve a better environment, and which is positive in order to achieve a better fair distribution. All of these three things are important for us to get to. I can't stop saying anything about this pay debate. Now, if Lars Sponheim had read the position of the decision we made earlier today – it is still on the desk of Sponheim – he would have seen the reason there, namely that we have always said that we should change the pension schemes and make sure that we have wage increases in line with the average of the population. It is actually this year, and that is why we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e451	I assume that the representative Sponheim will come back to this in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e454	The representative Holmås said in his post that everyone should be able to live in an owner-occupied dwelling without being particularly hard taxed for it. A significant cost of living in owner-occupied dwellings is interest. No one knows better than the representative Holmås, who is constantly musing in the media to bind the interest rate and also tie it for a long time. What people are most concerned about in terms of interest rates, I think, is of course the level, but also the tax deduction. Holmås’ colleague Lundtigen has now revealed his system change in fiscal policy. It is that the tax deduction on interest should be removed. This is a discussion about, not only in Lundtigen's head, but also in the Center Party's group, which is going to bring it into the Government. What is the position of the representative Holmås that the tax deduction may be eliminated for the interest on housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e461	I have no ambitions to remove the interest deduction for the dwelling. As far as I know, the government has no plans to change anything about this either. What's important in terms of interest rate developments is to say that as a rule, all the interest rate increases we've had now are interest rate increases that were announced also under the previous government. The interest rate policy has been quite firm. So there's one important thing to say, and that's that many from the opposition are talking about the pressure in the economy, and that's what makes the interest rise, and that it gets more rid of the red-green government. But remember one thing: instead of talking about the pressure in the economy, you should talk about unemployment. We have had a historically low unemployment rate. It is a fact that if you have lower unemployment than if you have high unemployment, the central bank manager is more likely to set up the interest rate. We're going to keep working to get a low unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e473	The representative Holmås should at least have it that he is talking about the unemployed, not the unemployed, because I have understood that there has been an important distinction there for some on the red-green side. $12 billion is a number we've now served in different contexts. It's like the billions this government has more to route with than the previous government. I guess there's some kind of feeling that there's the level of tax that reflects how much tax you get. It is completely forgotten that a dynamic industrial policy, a good economic policy, is needed, which in total brings values to the community in the form of e.g.: taxes and charges. But as long as you stick to these 12 billions, you've made yourself a kind of mantra that you have so much more at your disposal than anyone else, and then you're essentially forgetting the entire value creation that's needed to get tax income at all. It surprises me that at least some of the government parties are monomantly holding on to this. With regard to the Government's proposal, in the Christian People's Party, we are changing the tax regime, by proposing reductions in gross taxes and taxes of approximately DKK 1.25 billion. At the same time, we are proposing a premium increase of approximately NOK 1.1 billion. I'm going to go into some of the important changes we're making in our arrangement. We go in order to continue the tax benefits of individual pension savings, including collective and individual annuities. I can only repeat what the fleet representative said, that for us this is an important prerequisite for what the Sandal representative pointed to as an opportunity for a broad pension settlement. Then I've told you. The Christian People's Party also does not accept the proposed tightening up of the tax FUNN scheme. We will certainly continue this incentive to research directed by the individual enterprise. When, in combination with this, the Government has not invested in colleges and universities at all, we see a hit page in the government's plans in this area. In addition, we have a certain increase in the entry point for the top tax step 1, while we increase the net asset tax by NOK 15 000 more than the Government. These include: in order to protect some pensioners who have a paid-down house and who have received a significant increase in their share of the property tax in the last two years as a result of the government's arrangements. So the representative mentioned the tick our proposal to write down the inheritance tax at the time of generation change. We would like the government to have taken a positive view of such a proposal, because we are facing many generational shifts in the small and medium-sized enterprises where the inheritance tax can actually be a reason not to make a generational shift, but rather to sell the company or, if necessary, to shut it down. So we also know that within the government parties there is a part that is occupied by what we can call working capital within the wealth tax, that is. that we should exempt working capital from taxes on wealth. We have made a proposal asking the Government to look at it. We record that it does not get a majority, but we also know that at least there are representatives within the government parties who may have the sense of looking at the tax on wealth from such a point of view. Then we want to give it the handshake to the voluntary Norway that it is to increase the deduction limit for gifts to non-governmental organisations. The current government did not follow up the Bondevik II government's draft budget for the current year in this way, and it is on the ground resting, while the trade union deduction thus increases considerably. It's also a signal to send out. In conclusion, I would like to include our suggestions in the vote. So I'm just going to say that if someone asks if we have increased the charge on alcohol and snuff, we have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e496	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal he referred to, which is included on page 86 of the vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e502	If you read the budget documents and the setting, you can see that the Christian People's Party in most areas of fiscal policy agrees with the current government. The Christian People's Party's alternative budget sees that the Christian People's Party would have reduced the overall tax and tax level of the Government by about 170 million. kr. This is in stark contrast not only to Syversen's contributions now, but also to the last Bondevik government budget, with the significant tax reliefs they had. Is it possible to interpret the conversion of the Christian People's Party into fiscal policy to make them feel more at home with this government's tax and tax arrangements than with that of the previous government? After all, the Christian People's Party also lacks DKK 11.8 billion before their budgets go into full swing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e509	Our budget is falling apart. What's more interesting to look at is that after we got a tax reform, there are quite a number of people in the red-green camp who have gone into a tax settlement that is completely different from what they've ever stood for. My starting point is that after we got a broad majority of the tax reform, the differences in tax policy are limited compared to previous times. This is true, even though the representative Klungland and some others in rhetoric are trying to make it quite different. Take, for example: The government party SV, one sees a big difference in the situation now and for a few years back. We support the proposal we have tabled. That's right. That's 170 million. NOK in difference, but as I said, it is also a redistribution internally from taxes to taxes of NOK 1.25 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e518	That's okay. But it's quite ‘fast’ by the representative of the Christian People's Party to say here that we now have a completely different tax policy than what we had, when it was the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left in the government that proposed the greatest reversal of all. The main reason why differences increased from 1992 onwards and beyond the 1990s and beyond the 2000s, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, was the absence of tax on dividends. The main change in the tax reform was the abolition of the sharing model and the introduction of tax on dividends. The first thing that was done by the previous government was to remove the tax on dividends that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Workers' Party government had been responsible for. This led to a tax haven of SEK 1.5 billion for the richest. Who's doing the biggest reverse operation here? It's certainly not us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e523	If Heikki Holmås goes back a little bit and looks at what's been done here in the house, I think he can put SV in the x's that's going to explain who's done the biggest reversal in tax policy. It wasn't the Christian People's Party that last fall accused SV of taking the rich party, there were groups within Heikki Holmås' own party, and it was LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla. As I try to say, and as I have said many times, tax reliefs that help us have a business that works, that's investment in the future. Heikki Holmås can get support from us anytime if he would find himself promoting that kind of proposal. In the case of dividends on shares, as the representative remembers, the last proposal of the Bondevik II government was that dividends should be taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e532	I want to drill a little in relation to the post of representative Syversen. He said that when the previous government gave tax relief, it meant growth in the economy and growth in value creation. Today we also see that the rhetoric is that the danger of interest rising is due to the fact that there is too much growth in the mainland economy. This must mean that the Christian People's Party admits that the level of taxation they had last year was too low compared to what it is today. If it is related to the fact that the tax burden they gave increased growth in the economy, it must also be that the tax austerity that has now come is absolutely necessary to keep interest rates down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e537	With regard to the level of interest rates, there are many different factors that increase the pressure on interest rates. Of course, that's the sum of private consumption and public consumption. I insist that after the Stoltenberg I administration went off, it was imperative to do something about the tax and tax arrangements in order to speed up the Norwegian economy. When the Stoltenberg I government went off, we had rising unemployment, the economic recessions were totally in the wrong direction, and it was a great job for the Bondevik II government to provide for an economic policy that would help reverse this. So this was reversed, and this is what the representative of Klungland and the red-green government now enjoys.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e544	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e547	Today’s debate on legislative changes resulting from the 2007 tax package is a follow-up to Tuesday’s financial debate. In fiscal policy, it is important for the Central Party to keep the «tax by capacity» tab high. This applies to the taxation of persons, while business taxation must be long-term but adapted to the competitive situation of the different industries, for example. market and labour. Tax rules for personal taxpayers are a central and important part of the anti-balancing policy, and this tab is held high, and there is also a broad understanding in Norwegian society to maintain the current level of taxation. With regard to charging policy, the main challenge in this year's budget is the dilemma of introducing a NOx emission levy, while encouraging a more versatile product-producing business. This is demanding, but the financial situation shows that the government parties take this seriously, which business has registered as positive. The liquidation of tax favouring individual pension agreements, known as IPA, as well as collective and individual annuities, was dealt with in a revised national budget this year. Calculations show that most of IPA savings are made by persons with relatively high incomes. The proportion of the population with the highest income is nearly 40 pst. of the tax relief in 2007 in the event of the liquidation of the tax-advanced IPA. The background for this is both the higher savings and the higher proportion of people with high income who have used the scheme. Persons with low income who have used IPA will be affected to a small extent by the tightening up, because the payments are taxed as income on persons, while the deduction on deposits is 28 pst. The disadvantage of a higher tax rate at the date of payment than at the date of deduction must be compensated by the benefit of avoiding taxes on wealth and income tax on the amount saved. With high marginal taxes on pension income, much is needed to save taxes through the IPA scheme. The abolition of the wealth tax exemption for individual annuities implies increased taxes on wealth for 2007. The resolution of tax favouring collective annuities has good distributive effects. The scheme is designed mainly for the high-income groups to circumvent the restrictions of the Post-Insurance Pensions Act and the Occupational Pensions Act. The government has submitted proposals for a new pension reform. Since this reform has a very long time perspective, it is an advantage with the widest possible political outreach. On the assumption of an overall pension settlement, the government parties undertake to establish private, individual, tax-deductible pension savings. The scope and timing of the implementation of a new plan is part of the pension negotiations. There are some important changes related to forestry and agriculture in the setting. The forest fund scheme, the former forest tax scheme, is greatly improved, both by making use of the scheme more tax-effective and by extending the purpose for which the money can be used. The most important thing is that the objective is extended to include new road construction. At that point it is interesting that the Left as the only party opposes the use of forest funds for the new construction of forest roads because it is a «environmentally hostile policy». Stick it. New forest roads are generally environmentally hostile! Furthermore, the agricultural deduction under the agricultural agreement has been improved. There is also an interesting point to make by saying that the party of progress which is now the only party is opposed to the change in the agricultural deduction. The lot based on a strong reduction in taxes and duties is now making a clarification: this shall not apply to commercial income from agriculture and forestry. On the contrary, the Progress Party chooses to go alone against a tax reduction for farmers. This is clear from previous opinions on agricultural policy, where it is said that it is a system to change, while farmers' income opportunities, what they are going to live on, need to be improved. Finally, both the taxation of fasteners, the profit on their cessation and the tax on coniferous forest protection are improved. There are systems that are well maintained in the industry, and a necessary and important change is taking place during this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e576	First of all, a comment to Mr Lundtegen on the fact that the Progress Party is opposed to tax relief for farmers: yes, we do not think it is right to get tax relief on subsidies. Once you live at the expense of the state, you don't have to get a tax return. We think that's going to be wrong. On a number of occasions, the representative of Lundtägen, from this interlocutor and also from the media, has put forward a policy that is contrary to the policy of the Central Party and is contrary to the policy of the Government. I think everyone here in this room will agree on that. As I have understood the representative Lundtigen, it is especially the ownership structure in Norwegian business and the settlement in the districts he is occupied with. Therefore, I would like to challenge Lundtigen: If he had the opportunity to make the premises first for the economic policy of the Central Party and then for the economic policy of the Government – what political action would he have taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e583	I think that's a bigger question than you can answer in a line. Otherwise, I have to say that there is an interesting culture in this room that one should be given opinions, in general terms, that one has not expressed, and that one does not stand for. It is a debate technique that gives us a respect and an understanding of the work of the political system that is becoming very low in the population. I would recommend to the representative Tybring-Gjedde that instead of dealing with the specific proposals – what is specifically addressed in the various forums – they debate from that point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e591	In the financial debate on Tuesday, the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party parliamentary leader, Meltveit Kleppa, called for the removal of the interest deduction. At least that question was to be debated. Later, both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party said that they have no plan to remove the interest deduction. It is now a well-known matter that you usually have one plan until you get a new one, and my knowledge of the Center Party is that the Center Party does not tend to give up until they get it as they please. So my question to Lundtigen is: has Lundtigen now abandoned his desire to limit the interest deduction, or does he follow a good central party tradition – to continue until you get what you want, namely to get an impact in the Government for a restriction of the interest deduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e601	Those who follow this debate, and those who read it, can now take note of Mr Sanner's introduction to the question. It was claimed that the Senterpartiet called for the removal of the interest deduction or debate on the interest deduction – a rather different approach to the issue. What the Center Party has said is that, historically, there is a connection between interest rebates and housing taxes, which have been such that a person should have a balance in the system. It has evolved in such a way that the balance sheet is now out of place. The central party has not made proposals in the government, the government has not made proposals, and, as far as I know, the government has not thought about making changes on this point either. But it must be possible in different forums to debate the impact of the different systems. It should also take over the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e608	Finally, I expect the representative Lundtigen to agree that those who have large mortgages also need a certain predictability – even if you have to have respect for the debates. But I'm going to do something else. The centre party is historically a party which has been occupied by the workforce of small and medium-sized enterprises. The same is true of Lundtigen. So my question is, in our position, proposals are made to look at the inheritance tax related to the generational shifts in family-owned enterprises and also look at the possibility of excluding working capital from the wealth tax. Does the representative Lundtigen agree that it may well be worth discussing these two themes in order to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e615	Me and the Senterpartie fully agree that one must have predictability in relation to those who have large mortgages, so I can only agree to that. As regards inheritance taxes and inheritance tax rules and the issue of property taxes and working capital, it is a central point that is constantly being discussed. As the representative of the Syversen knows, there are issues on which the Centre Party is very concerned. It is very demanding to make an inheritance settlement and a continuation of the holdings, and therefore it is central to look at the opportunities provided to facilitate it through inheritance tax taxation. But based on experience of what can be said from this pulpit, I should be careful to participate in a debate on these issues. That is why we do not choose to go further today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e625	For the Left, the main objectives of fiscal policy are that the system is simple, efficient and environmentally friendly. These main objectives were also the basis of the tax reform of the Bondevik II government, which provided a flat and simpler system and which removed the complex and unfair sharing model. The main challenge now, in the view of the Left, is to bring about a further tax shift from red to green taxes, increasing taxes on consumption and health and environmental behaviour and reducing labour and wealth. The left, therefore, supports the changes made by the Government to the tax system that are environmentally friendly, but the left is of the opinion that it is necessary to obtain legitimacy among citizens in order for a tax shift from red to green tax to be both sensible and necessary, it must be done through a comprehensive scheme that is either revenue-neutral or tax-free. Unfortunately, the Government is so concerned about reaching the ‘levy’ of a total tax burden at 2004 levels that the tax bill is sent uncritically to people with normal income and dwellings. Thus, according to my and Left's discretion, the Government makes itself a bear service and weakens the upswing and legitimacy of a necessary conversion in a more environmentally friendly direction. Uncertainty has been re-created if the Government considers that there is a ‘system error’ in the tax system, as the Central Party fiscal spokesman repeated in the financial debate on Tuesday, and as the Central Party parliamentary leader confirmed was ‘the subject of more thorough internal discussions’. This ‘system error’ consists in allowing for tax deductions of interest in the tax system. And it comes from a party that almost went to the higher interest rate elections. We are used to a lot of strange things from government after a year of'multiple', but here it is necessary that the Minister of Finance, during this debate, either confirm or insist that this is 'the subject of more thorough discussions'. The interest deduction is reasonably decisive for most young people in the start-up phase, to say it cautiously, not least now when we enter a period of increasing interest rates. I also noticed that the Center Party’s Lars Peder Breck in the same financial debate went a long way in winding up the CO2 tax as an environmental policy instrument, but assumes that this is another uncontrolled play from the Center Party for which there is no full coverage in the Government – or? The left priorities in its alternative tax haven for those with normal and low incomes. We propose to increase the minimum deduction by NOK 720 for salary and pension income, and we regulate the entry point in the top tax in line with the Workers' Party's issuing a selection guarantee in 2001. The government itself estimates that the average income for those working full-time in 2007 will be NOK 399 000. That means that one just has to make NOK 1 001 more than the average before the peak tax goes in. It was never meant to be when top taxes were introduced? Norway is today one of the few countries that still have taxes on wealth. Investment taxes increase the burden on start-ups and increase the risk of investment in innovation. The tax on wealth has a number of unfortunate long-term effects on saving and investment and is an obstacle to an innovative business life in Norway. The left will therefore in the long term remove the property tax, and proposes in the 2007 budget that the budget for the asset tax be raised to NOK 250 000. The Norwegian economy is at the boiling point. The government's prescription is to spend more money in the public sector, among other things. through net increased taxes of approximately DKK 2 billion. There is no doubt that spending money on public expenditure rather than tax relief contributes to increased pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. In addition, the Government has few or no incentives for saving in its tax regime. Rather, the case is the opposite in view of the Government’s proposal to wind up the tax advantage of the IPA scheme and annuity agreements. I am pleased that the government parties are now opening up to continue the tax advantage for private pension savings given a broad pension settlement, and hope that the Minister of Finance will strive for flexible rules to ensure that businesses do not have to liquidate schemes and renegotiate employment contracts before 1 January 2007, but that time is spent on the regulatory work to be done. There are, after all, 830,000 different savings schemes here, many as part of different agreements between the social partners. The left today proposes a number of targeted tax reliefs for Norwegian businesses that can stimulate new start-ups and thus ensure welfare in the future. We propose to increase depreciation rates for machines by 5 pst, the same as the SV promised before the 2005 elections. We propose to triple the free amount by buying a share in our own company, to halve the employer's fee for new apprentices, to facilitate the inheritance fee for a generation change in family-owned enterprises and to double the financial limits of the tax FUNN scheme. This is, of course, a modern industrial policy that creates new and sustainable jobs — not tax incentives for individual industries or measures aimed at individual enterprises in individual municipalities or local communities, as is the government’s so-called active policy. Finally, I would like to address the suggestion that the Left has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e656	The representative, Lars Sponheim, has taken up the suggestion to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e661	As Sponheim himself has expressed, the Left in its alternative budget makes some changes to the minimum deduction of employee income and in the top tax. Compared to the arrangements of the Government, it is very different. NOK 200 if you make NOK 250,000, and it's a little bit more than NOK 4000 if you make NOK 750,000 and up. But if you're professionally organized, the Left, along with the Advance Party, will give you a tax increase, and the Left, together with the Advance Party, will remove the entire deduction from the union quota. Can the representative Sponheim provide an explanation of the country’s trade unionised relationship with this tax consolidation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e666	This is a left-wing policy that has been programmed for many periods, and which primarily focuses on a principle view for our part. We believe that the corporate element in Norwegian democracy is already large enough as it is, and now we see how it accelerates under this government. There is a power given to non-people elected bodies that, at my discretion, is a dramatic shift of power in Norwegian society, and it has a principleal side. We would rather spend the money on more important measures than helping them to inflate huge lobby organisations, and this applies both to employers and employees. And then there's also a practical side, and that's how many purposes there are to spend money on those who need it more than the big trade union organizations that build up great values. Politics is about prioritizing, and we prioritise money for those who need it the most. That's why we give tax credits, for example. at the minimum deduction, at the lowest income, and takes from the large trade unions the opportunity to build up the large assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e671	Lars Sponheim has given praise to the government parties in the past because we were able to lift the aid as much as we did. Even I would like to commend the Christian People's Party and the Left for the efforts they made in 2001, where they were able to turn the Right from going in to cut the aid instead of making a pretty good increase during the few years they were in government. But the arguments at the time from the Right were that it doesn't matter with aid, but it's very important to increase trade. The left has a proposal to lower customs duties for some of the poor countries of the middle income group, i.e. those that are not MUL countries. On the other hand, the right has a proposal to eliminate all middle-income countries, including Argentina and Brazil. Can Lars Sponheim say anything about what kind of consequences he thinks Right's proposal would be contrary to Left's own?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e677	Let me first confirm that the government cooperation that the previous government had made for the Christian People's Party and the Left to have a good impact on important areas such as aid and the environment, and I also want to say district policy, and the Right was big enough to stretch far and get good solutions. I hope that SV can achieve some of the same environmental gains in relation to the Center Party, but I am skeptical. Then at customs rates. We have zeroed customs duties from the so-called least developed countries, mainly the poorest African countries. That's good, but not enough. They also need to be able to use a zero rate for customs purposes. That's the one important job. The other important job is, in my opinion, to get to a few more countries, especially African ones, which are a little richer than the least developed countries, in being able to deliver. That's why I think we should be open to expand to the zero rate also for them. If one combines it with giving zero rates to all developing countries, e.g. Argentina and Uruguay, so competitive that they are the most competitive in the world, will definitely compete away from all MUL countries. In reality, the zero rate for Argentina and Uruguay is to deprive the poorest countries of the opportunity to sell to Norway, and that is the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e684	It is strong to hear the leader of the Left talk about corporate features in terms of the union quota, when we know historically the proud tradition of the Left in order to strike a balance between those who sell their labour force and those who are employers, between those who are maritime traders and those who are recipients of the products. It is sad to experience the Left's crusades against various forms of trade-organisational stimulation that help to achieve a reasonable balance of power. But my question goes to the Forest Fund Regulation: As Minister of Agriculture, Lars Sponheim removed the possibility of using forest funds with tax advantages for new forest roads from 2003. We have a system of reporting obligations and processing of any application. Nevertheless, the Left says in the setting that the construction of forest roads is environmentally hostile, and it must not fall under the Forest Fund scheme. I want a deepening of the environmentally hostile that has been approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e691	Let me also say that it is quite strong to hear a spokesman for a former centre party come up with a pure Marxist analysis of the Norwegian community – but I will let that lie. In the course of that, it's quite interesting to see which corporate moves the center party is now contributing to government. Thus, in a situation where the tax level is to be increased to 2004 levels, the Centre achieves tax relief for farmers through the agricultural deduction, tax relief for forestry road construction through the Forest Fund scheme, and even grant tax privileges to the large cooperatives, which since they were introduced, have actually become our largest billionth group in Norway. So here the Bonde team has got an extended arm right into fiscal policy through the representative Lundtigen, and there are good examples of how corporate features evolve quite strongly in Norwegian society. We have an environmental problem in that untouched forest is no longer untouched. Forest road construction is the biggest problem. Two dangerous steps have been taken from this government, extending subsidies to forestry road construction and giving large tax deductions. For this, I am sure that I will contribute to a forest road construction that will increase the need for protection, and that is the consequence of what the Lundtigen and Centerpartie stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e698	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e701	I think that the big political battle over fiscal policy was in the financial debate, and that we are now in a sort of small accumulation heat in relation to different themes that it might be interesting to elaborate further. But I want to make a few comments about the slightly larger picture first, because there are a few things that are very interesting to notice when it comes to the opposition parties. First of all, when you look at the alternative government budgets of the opposition parties, it's very interesting to notice that when the Right is in opposition, they are cutting dramatically in the aid appropriations. It's really a big tribute to the Christian People's Party first, I think, and maybe the Left too, because it testifies to the fact that they've had quite tough fights to keep the level of aid that you actually have. It's just as interesting to look at tax policy when the Christian People's Party has the freedom to do exactly what they want. It's striking, and we can only state in the debate, that the Christian People's Party does not put tax relief at the top when they make changes in the budget. On the contrary, they are very comfortable with the tax base of the red-green government. I think that's an interesting move. Nevertheless, there are several opposition speakers who are now out there praising the dynamic tax policy with very simple analyses – if I dare say so. Of course, if you have 100 pst. marginal tax, it may have certain efficiencies in the Norwegian economy. Same thing could be if it's 0 pst. Of course, the discussion of what is an effective level of marginal tax or an effective tax system is entirely relevant. But to state bombasticly that these are the tax changes that the previous government has made, which now lead to very good things in the Norwegian economy, I think it's a little too much of a round of self-punishment. Then one jumps smoothly over the situation in the world economy, where Norway is located in the middle of the butter island in relation to the revenues we have from oil and gas, the increased revenue we have when that price is high, and how we enjoy the fact that we can import more and more goods at ever cheaper prices from China. This is primarily what is now the driving force of the Norwegian economy, together with a level of interest below what we have to count as a normal level. So to some of the discussions that have taken place on the tax reform and implementation of the tax reform, and what has been the SV's previous tax policy in the Stortinget. There is no other party that has been so preoccupied with pointing out that as long as you have such a big difference in the taxation of labour and capital, it will be a very big driving force in adapting and making labour income become capital income. The big tax reform that was carried out last year, on which there was a broad consensus in the Storting, and which our government followed up, had precisely these elements very clearly in them. The back of that medal, that marginal taxes on labour were reduced a little, while marginal taxes on capital were set up a lot, was that some high-wages received tax reliefs that they did not need on the basis of distribution policy arguments. It was an effect of the system conversion that was implemented. Our government halved the tax relief while we passed on the property tax. In total, the distribution profile is good. We do not have any evidence when we present the 2007 state budget, how this tax reform has actually turned out, and whether we have been able to find the level in relation to how this happens. We're going to have some more information when we present the budget for 2008, but probably we're not going to have a full overview of this before the 2007 equation comes, and before the 2009 government budget. But the distribution effects of the big tax reform are very important for the red-green government to follow very closely, because we want to distribute more fairly, and we want those who have a lot to contribute more. So we're doing some grips in this state budget, among other things. with regard to the valuation of shares, etc., which we know has a very clear and clear distribution profile. Let me just go into something that I see is up to discussion in many newspapers today, and it is about the conversion of car charges. We have proposed that fuel-efficient cars get better out of the one-off charging system by introducing a CO2 component into the one-off charging system. This means that small diesel cars come out more favourably and that their prices are significantly reduced. At the same time, some people who are out there and with a wide pen claim that it will increase the emission of NOx and particles and be a major disadvantage to people who are struggling, for example. with asthma or other types of suffering. This in itself will not lead to this conversion, because it is mainly the old diesel cars that are a major local environmental problem. But we have the ambition, of course, that particulate emissions should also be included, because it has a large local pollution burden. That is why we warn Stortinget about this conversion that the changes we are making in terms of the one-off charge are directed towards the climate problems in order to reduce CO2 emissions. But we're going to continue working to get to a system that encourages you to install filters that clean particles, and we can do that by putting greater emphasis on local emissions, in the annual fee, or in other ways. I would like to say that very loudly and clearly, so that no one who is now buying a small diesel-powered car, in retrospect, comes and says that yes but, dear friend, we were completely unprepared that there were also measures in relation to the local pollution. It's coming, and it's important to notice, because we have to deal with both of them, that's. We're going to be able to bring down the climate emissions. More and more people are seeing the consequences of climate emissions, but of course we also need to work very actively in relation to the local fuel emissions from the car park. Then I only have a couple of strings left. One is that there are some who are trying to draw up a discussion and question the government's policy on interest rebates. There's no reason. The government has no plans to change the interest deduction. We're not working on any secret plans to do that. That debate has been cancelled. The second thing that is for discussion is tax favorisation in relation to individual pension savings. There, the Government has changed the tax incentives because we have introduced a occupational pension scheme that is now significantly improved by allowing self-employed persons to enter. We have shifted tax incentives, from saving on capital to saving on labour income. However, this is a topic in the context of negotiations on a new pension system, or the pension reform. The government has a very clear wish that there is a reform to embrace widely in the Storting, because the pension system is not something that should be changed every four years as the number of population changes — if it were to be so that the majority of population changes after the next major choice. For the opposition, we have noticed, there is an important question of continuing a system of tax favoring individual pension savings. That is why it is a subject of this kind. But I have not thought that on behalf of the Government I will interfere with what is now happening in Stortinget. That is what the Stortinget is going to do, and the negotiations between the parties are taking place between the parties in Stortinget. So I expect that if someone in the opposition wants to deepen what's going to be the government parties' position in that discussion, there will be magnificence representatives from the government parties who answer it. Otherwise, I would say that what we have done about changes here has good distribution effects, but that we should come back to the discussion about how the device might happen. I expect that it is also part of the negotiations in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e741	I would like to talk a little bit about one of the government's election promises that concern the 2004 tax level. I note that the Government and the Minister of Finance are very clear that they should return to the level of taxation for 2004, i.e. increase taxes. The government itself says in its submission to the State budget that it is now considered that this has been done in the context of reaching the level of the last two state budgets in 2004. Does this mean that citizens can settle down and count on the Government to be satisfied with the level of taxation that has now been achieved? And can the Council of State guarantee that this election promise is still in place for this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e750	I can refer to what has been presented to the Stortinget, which is that we should stick to the level of 2004, which we – as Leirstein says – are now introducing from the 2007 budget year. That is a clear result of the negotiations on Soria Moria. It's also very clear in the Soria Moria statement, and that's counting as a guarantee. That doesn't mean that we're not going to do much with the tax system in the future, but that means that the sum of the changes we're making is going to be nominally neutral. But it's like... has previously been the subject here today of increasing green taxes and switching between environmentally-rich taxes, aggravations and reliefs in other areas will be conversions that emerge more clearly within such frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e757	First, in the case of private pension schemes, the Minister of Finance is responsible for any transitional rules to be established, so she cannot discharge herself entirely. But I'll come back to that in a later article. The Minister of Finance then claims that the Right Cuts in the Aid Budget. On the right, the aid budget increases compared to the 2006 level. We are increasing the aid budget by 2.5 pst. That means that the Right for 2007 is actually proposing a higher aid budget than what we did in government with the Christian People's Party. However, my question relates to the relationship between marginal taxes and labour supply. We are in a situation where we have an acute and growing need for labour. In that situation, the Government chooses to increase the marginal tax rate for important groups. In a letter to the Stortinget, the Council of State has confirmed that tax increases can limit the supply of work, and the SSB has determined that reduced marginal tax rates increase the supply of labour. What is the stance of the Council of State on the relationship between marginal tax and labour supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e770	Let me first make it clear: Yes, it is right that the Right is increasing the aid budget in relation to 2006, but they are cutting – and with over DKK 1 billion – compared to what the Government is proposing for 2007, and what is also the Christian People's Party's proposal for 2007. So here we see a clear difference between the previous government parties. So for the debate on marginal tax. Of course, it's a relevant discussion. But those who are most likely to be most effective in increasing their labour supply based on marginal taxes are those with the lowest wages. Let's say it like this: High-paid men in Akershu are working full-time anyway -- now I wasn't thinking about Sanner specifically, but more about that group in general. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e777	First of all, it was a very effective oral basket that the Minister of Finance now put on the members of the Central Party, who would like to discuss interest rebates – and it has probably been received there in the farm. What I was more concerned about, was the relationship between what the government is doing at colleges and universities, compared to what they're doing at SkattenFUNN, i.e., in total, a rather weak policy for research and development. So my question to the Minister of Finance is this: What will the Government do on the tax side in the long term to stimulate us to have a robust business life?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e785	We have a very good situation for Norwegian businesses. That must be the starting point for this debate. There is a record in the number of start-ups, and there is a large surplus in Norwegian business. It is, of course, very close to both the fact that we have a reasonable tax system for business, and that there are very good times in the world economy and in the Norwegian economy. So it's not like we can draw a picture of a situation for Norwegian business like being far down in a pyew valley, just so that's the starting point. We've done some tightening in relation to the Tax Fund in terms of the number of hours, and in terms of the rate. Nor have we proposed such a large increase in colleges and universities as a price adjustment would suggest. It's a real downfall of 1 pst. We haven't cut research. In relation to business activity for the next year, the main focus is on the field of transport, because it has been identified as an important area of business, especially in the districts. But I don't have any new signals to come up with now in relation to the business tax for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e794	Like the previous replicator, I registered that the debate on the interest rebate was effectively cancelled. The representative of Lundtigen was quite effectively separated in this debate – in brackets: the NOx emissions were too large – and I am satisfied with that. I think the Minister of Finance well defended the tax settlement she herself was not part of in her time, and certainly opposed, but was very precise. Indeed, we have to tolerate some millimeters of unfairness between employees in order to do something about the main injustice, namely low capital taxation. That's what we have to argue about when it comes to the tax settlement. Then I register with satisfaction that there is a further guarantee that the 2004 tax level will be maintained. It must be a good idea – as I said in a reply to the representative Holmås – to make a tax shift from red to green tax that becomes clean and clear and communicable. Can the Minister of Finance elaborate that she will follow it up in the way that the representative Holmås expressed in his reply to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e808	Some proposals I would like to come back to in the budget for 2008. But we have a clear wording in the Soria Moria statement that we want this kind of tax exchange, with increased taxation on – to say – environmentally hostile actions, and there may be many areas or areas where we want to reduce consumption, while we can have relief in other areas related to work or distribution. I think the representative Sponheim should notice that a completely different environmental approach has been taken with regard to taxes and taxes after the government change. I know that the Left agrees very much with what I and our government have proposed for the Storting, and I have a clear ambition to continue that work, so that the sum of the first period of the red-green government is to be a system that is much more consistent with environmental taxation. Of course, that twist comes out more clearly when the net proceeds are going to be zero. Then you'll see the twist even more clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e815	I never stop wondering how a finance minister can go up to the pulpit and boast of tax increases. In the 2009 election, the slogan must be: ‘Vote me, and I will take your salary and give it to others who deserve it better.’ But I will leave it. The Council of State has previously announced a review of the State’s fees and charges. I would like to know when it will be available and whether the Council of State can ensure that in the future all the fees will correspond to the actual costs incurred by the State in connection with the services provided. Further: Will the Council of State clear up the confusion that exists as to whether something is tax or tax? One example is inheritance tax, which is obviously a tax. Will the government relate to the definition that you then come up with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e824	I have presented and clarified to Stortinget what we consider to be fees that should be paid for a service you get from the public, and what are sector fees, which should also be paid for a service. That's what we're going through right now. Now, when we take this big review – in order to increase people's respect, really, for the tax and tax system and get an understanding of why we have it – it's because when you're told that now you pay a fee to get a particular service, the price should be proportionate to what it actually costs to do the service. It's a job we're doing. We have started with a relief in the fee on coercive transactions in this budget. We're going to go on with it as we manage to document what the actual costs are. That's what's going to determine the progress. As it's documented, we're going to present it to the Stortinget. And then we're going to follow it up in the individual budgets in the future, within our tax promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e834	The Progress Party is concerned about the development of trade leakage abroad. There is agreement that it is significant. Border trade is at a high level, estimated at approx. 9 billion kroner. Estimates suggest that the total amount will be around 10 billion in 2007. This means a large loss of tax revenue to the country, in addition to approx. 10 000 lost jobs in Norway, which is very unfortunate for competitive private activities. Despite the fact that brewing in Norway has had to be closed in recent years, beer levies and packaging charges continue to increase, contrary to industry warnings. The long-term consequences are not to be avoided if you do not turn around and improve the framework conditions for the country’s breweries: Norway no longer wants to produce Norwegian beer. Figures from the Brewery Association show that the border trade and smuggling into Norway has now reached the formidable level of 40 million litres per year. year, which corresponds to the production of two Norwegian breweries, Aass and Macks. The loss of tax revenue for this volume exceeds 800 million. kr per year. There should be no doubt that, in addition to high food prices, there are the high and peculiar taxes on products such as tobacco, beer, wine, spirits, chocolate and confectionery that are the cause of so many Norwegians crossing the border of trade — this in addition to the increase in the food tax in the last year, and the Government is now proposing further increases. This trade leakage is particularly severe for some counties, particularly those bordering on Sweden, and has led to the need for Norwegian-based business to close down. The Progress Party will do something about this development in the only way that works, namely to balance the differences in price levels between Norway and neighbouring countries on what is often called baits. We can do that only by adapting the Norwegian level of charges in our neighbouring countries, in the first row of Sweden, but also Denmark. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes a significant reduction in all these charges. Sweden, Denmark and Finland introduced the EU duty-free quotas from January 2004, which allowed virtually unlimited amounts of cheap alcohol to be legally taken up to the Norwegian border. If Norway does not respond to all these changes by adjusting its alcohol charges, the price difference and problems will increase in the future. The exceptional level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco also creates other and at least as serious problems as a rapidly increasing border trade. The Progress Party is not in doubt that it also provides ground for organised crime of considerable scale. The high profit potential has led to the formation of mob-like organisations specialising in the smuggling of alcohol and tobacco. The alcohol policy of the government and the majority of the population has turned completely wrong. Limited availability and high price levels have led alcohol policy out of control. The result has been that the registered turnover of spirits has been steadily decreasing, while the unregistered has increased. Cheap home-produced and smuggled spirits are easily accessible, and also increasingly socially accepted. In recent years, the reduction in the alcohol charge has shown that it is useful to reverse this trend. So the high level of charges has caused us a significant social problem. The wine monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument is not working and is now likely to be below 50. pst. of the sale of spirits. A small part of the unregistered consumption of spirits comes from legal tax-free trade, while the rest comes from illegal production and smuggling. In this market, accessibility is great, even for minors, and the quality is bad, sometimes fatal, as we have seen recently. The high profits and the low risk of getting caught have given us professional smuggling bands who also recruit Norwegian youth. The volume of wine and beer smuggling has also gradually increased, and the customs services are increasingly appreciating quantities each year. Recent research also shows that drugs are now so much cheaper than alcohol that there is a risk of a transition from, for example, in youth settings. beer as a drug drug. These conditions are due to the large tax differences between Norway and the rest of Europe. The problem can be solved by a sharp reduction in Norwegian fees. With regard to the effects on the country’s tax revenue, I would like to remind you that there is some experience material both from Norway and the rest of the world. The size reduced the levy on liqueur wine by 46,5 pst. from 1 January 2000. This led to an increase in sales of 46,14 p.m., materially by a strong reduction in duty-free sales and border trade. An increase in VAT revenue and the increase in the margin of the Vinmonopoly was calculated, which did not reduce the country’s revenue from the sale of liqueur wine. This shows that the Treasury proceeds calculations in this area are not in a position to absorb the dynamic effects of such a tax reduction. The progress party therefore proposes a number of tax cuts on the goods that I have now mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e851	I'm going to go through some of it as the main speaker of the Workers' Party, Reidar Sandal, didn't get involved instead, but first I have to make some comments on the contributions from the Advancement Party, and then especially Christian Tybring-Gjeddes' posts. I really appreciate that we also have representatives from the largest opposition party who are much clearer both in fiscal policy and in economic policy as a whole than we can get the impression in the public debate. The representative, Tybring-Gjedde, points to the dynamic effects of any tax reduction in the amount proposed. It's tried out a lot of places in the world without any particular luck. So, as I understand this theory, reduced taxes and taxes should lead to increased economic growth in Norway – now it is as well known per year. Current date, both very high growth and full use of capacity in Norway — and through these tax reductions, more people should also be employed and further increased in the community. But I have to ask the question: which people are the representative of Tybring-Gjedde supposed to represent this growth in the economy? The situation is that the Norwegian economy is going down. It's almost full capacity. The business community says to us: Be careful, now it goes to those degrees away that you have to be careful with money usage, otherwise it can be overrated. Then I think there are two places where you can increase the supply of labour in the Norwegian economy: You can pick up people from abroad – and we do have experience that the Progress Party does not have full sympathy for that type of proposal – or you can get more people from the public sector, people who have part-time jobs, for example, out in the private sector. There, I believe, the Progress Party will point out that in its budgets they have major cuts in the various sectors. That's all right, but I have to remind the representatives that in most municipalities most of the employees are in the welfare sector. In the Drammen municipality, for example, where I come from, is 90 pst. by employees in positions of elderly care, school services, kindergartens, etc., and 10 pst. in the case of administrative measures. I would say that if you want to have any effect on these dynamic effects, you have to go there, and I don't believe that the Progress Party is involved. Another question relating to the dynamic tax policy is why the Progress Party has not budgeted with any increase in revenue in its budgets if this should be the case, because I guess it will have an effect as early as next year. It doesn't come out either. It's technical, but I'm glad this is a greater part of an ideological settlement, or attempts at settlement, with the government's economic policy. I believe that when the oil money bubble in a way facilitates Norwegian policy – when the Progress Party, as they have now done in the climate issues, finally accepts that there are some laws that require what to spend on money and not on spending money, and there are some limits there – then the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who I suppose is really out to increase the efficiency of the Norwegian economy, will also agree that there are some things we should do in common, such as research, school and health, which simply contribute to increasing efficiency in the economy more than if we were to do everything on our own. These were just a few brief considerations around it. Then I am going to touch some of the issues in the position that we have not come up with yet. I am glad that a unanimous committee last year actually agreed to ask the Government to investigate the possibility of granting an exemption from the document fee for the transfer of real estate between the cohabiters in the event of a break in life. The proposal originally came from the Christian People's Party, and many of us had a great sense of it. Today the setting is put on the table, and this is done. Cohabitants will now receive the same right as married couples to be exempted from the document fee in the event of a breakup. It's a joyous news for people who choose to live in cohabitation, and who may not even be aware that the law is different for cohabiters than for spouses, before it intersects completely and they choose to move away, or one party dies. So this is a good news, it's a happy news and an approximation of different forms of life that I think most parties agree with. Otherwise, I register that the Progress Party also has its own comments, and that they are generally opposed to the document fee. That is a fair position. But I might think that the reason the party gives in its comments is something sought. It is pointed out that people are forced to raise large and expensive top loans to pay this fee, and that it is almost the document fee that draws prices in the weather in today's housing market. That's to draw it long. I think there are other reasons than the document fee that we are experiencing this growth in the housing market. In the value added field, the setting indicates that an overall committee is entering so that municipal ports are now to be included in the value added system. This is a proposal we have received many good words for, for which there has not been much attention, but which is important for them. Not least we've been cleared up in a heavy administrative system. In some places, a shared enterprise — one with a duty of added value and one with a derogation — has to have two parts, and it creates an administrative board. So let's clean that up. Then there is a proposal to clean up the excise duty law related to the improper use of branded mineral oil. This has not received so much attention, at least not as much attention as the original proposal of the Government to remove the exemption from the diesel tax on recreational boats. The latter is now cleaned up for various reasons. But here, there's also some disagreement. I do not understand that there is such a difference in the responsibility for solidarity between the owner and the user of a recreational boat and the owner of the vehicle on the road. Onshore, as you know, both the user and the owner of a vehicle have a joint responsibility towards each other related to, for example: abuse of free fuel. Fortunately, an overwhelming majority supports this intensification, while the Progress Party again believes this to be unfortunate. I look forward to hearing – if we have time for it – the explanation of how the difference between a recreational boat and a vehicle on the road is in the eyes of the Progress Party, and why there should be different rules for these two things. Such a type of crime is as serious at sea as on land, at least I believe. One of the issues in the position around which there has been a high level of involvement, not least from those relating to it, is the special deduction for excessive costs of sickness. In the committee there is some disagreement about the level of the deduction itself, there is one thing. However, the majority of the Committee is very concerned that there should be somewhat equal treatment at the various Equation Offices in relation to how this legislation is applied. In this note, we ask the Government to come back with concrete measures to ensure the greatest possible level of non-discrimination related to future equations in this field. I just want to sum up by saying that I think that this setting shows that we are well on our way to cleaning up the tax system, in line with what we promised before the elections and in the Soria Moria Declaration. I think it also bears the impression that there may be more than the government parties who want to participate in a green tax exchange in the coming years, within the 2004 tax regime. We're looking forward to that. I also challenge parties other than the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have said that they are willing to participate in this, to participate in it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e886	Norway has one of the world’s highest car charges, which in turn leads to one of Europe’s oldest car parks. This again means that we have one of Europe's most polluting car parks. As if that were not enough, we have one of Europe's most uncertain car parks. I'm going to show that the reason for this is the car charges, in the form of their construction, but perhaps most of all because of the aquatic progression in the charging system. As you know, the car charges are based on three pillars – weight, horsepower and now a CO2 part. As the composition is, this whole system actually makes environmentally hostile. I'll come back to this. First, I want to show that today’s charging system makes safety equipment that is common in other countries not come as a natural part of cars sold in Norway. As State Councillor Halvorsen is well aware, the weight part of the charging system is structured with a step in four levels, from 32.75 to 166.06 per. kilos. This means that when a buyer buys a car, one will pay most for the extra equipment that a buyer buys for the car because of the progress. This again means that if a person wants to order a car with an additional safety equipment package, which many cars come with, the progress will make this the equipment for which he pays the most in charge. This, of course, results in more people who would naturally choose a safety package that is common in other countries because of the excessive price of the fee. This shows that the charging system counters the installation of safety systems in passenger cars, systems that would have both saved people's lives and saved people from a life in a wheelchair. So the government with SV in the head launches a new fee element to save the environment, and it's a CO2 part. Introducing a clean CO2 component, not least with the progress being taken into account, as the Government does, while increasing the rate at the top of the engine power part, leads to the opposite. This leads to diesel-powered, polluting cars falling into charge, while the same car with petrol increases in charge. Now, I'm sure the Swedish Council of State is going to ridicule my positions, but these aren't just my positions. Several stakeholder organisations, with Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations headed, have been particularly critical for the conversion. Several researchers at the NTNU and the National Institute for Public Health warn against the conversion. And they do that because the so-called environmental conversion leads many people to buy cars that pollute far more with local emissions, such as particulate emissions, NOx and other pollutants. It was also fixed in the TV 2 news this morning. It was shown that reports confirm that particulate emissions take life. Then a claim can be made that it is possible to install extra filters that take part of these. Yes, it is possible, if it had not been for these to be relatively heavy and affected by the progress in the weight tax. The environmental party SV has, through its work of creating a car system to save the environment, clearly the art of lowering the taxes on cars that the world's foremost in the environment, the state of California, has prohibited because of the emissions. And California isn't anyone when it comes to the environment. As far as I know, there is no other place in the world where emission requirements are stricter than in this country. So SV is able to make the environmental hosts cheaper in Norway, while cars that are categorized as the ones that pollute the least increase in price. This is logic on such a high level that one must almost be a member of SV to understand it. The driving party wants a car tax system that takes into account that the normal man and woman in the street can afford to buy a safe and environmentally sound car, a car that promotes the use of the latest and best waste gas cleaning technology, a charging system that enables families of children to buy a cheap and safe car where the whole family can fit. In order to do so, the charges have to be reduced considerably, so that it is not just the so-called rich people who can afford such a car. Norway is a long-distance country where the passenger car is a natural part of the infrastructure. Unfortunately, with different governments, we have developed a car tax system that is more intended for everyone to live in a city than for long distances, and that there is no bus or train passing by. With this draft budget, SV and the government parties make matters even worse. What is most incredible, from my point of view, is that SV and the Council of State know that the new system leads to more pollution. Several articles in the newspapers have made it clear how they have talked about introducing a higher diesel tax or differentiated annual tax later on. If this is true, it means in the worst case that those who buy diesel-powered cars next year are going down in price, next time they get a huge annual price increase without them being aware of it. It's tricking people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e914	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e918	There are some issues related to private pension saving that I want to address. I'm not going to take the big ideological debate. I'm not going to spend the time that government parties abuse statistics, either, when they claim that this primarily has a distributive side. What is my concern is the uncertainty that has come, with the background to the comments of the government parties. I note that the majority of the parties now recognise that a private pension-saving scheme needs to be put in place in order to achieve a wide-ranging pension settlement. That's good. On the other hand, there is uncertainty as to what the government parties mean by their remark. For the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, it is important to stress that when you talk about private individual pension savings, that means you open up a discussion related to both IPA, individual annuity and collective annuity. I ask that it be confirmed by the government parties that a debate on individual and collective annuity has not been excluded. Secondly, with the comments of the government parties, there has been full chaos in the market as to how this should be interpreted. For collective annuities, there is very much agreement between employees and employers. Collective annuity has been used in mergers between companies and it has been used in pension negotiations with employees. As the comment now stands, it is interpreted that these agreements must be terminated from 1 January 2007. If that happens, it means that it is almost impossible to reintroduce such a scheme, if that is what would result from the negotiations in the Stortningen on pension reform. It is therefore essential that the transitional rules outlined by the majority ensure that technical conditions do not lead to the unnecessary liquidation of individual and collective annuity schemes and IPA. I ask the majority parties to confirm that transitional rules will now be drawn up to ensure that these individual and collective arrangements are not unintentionally liquidated. It's very crucial. This affects a lot of companies, and it affects a lot of individuals, who now feel very uncertain about what will be the final outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e929	The representative Sanner addresses the issue of what is mentioned in the option when it relates to individual pension savings and annuity. I think that the representative, Sanner, is going to get hurt at both over-dimensioning and giving a presentation of the realities of this matter that I don't know about. The representatives of the government party, who have submitted, are just giving a signal about how a person thinks about the matter, under the assumption that a person gets a deal and a broad pension settlement in the Stortinget. We're actively working on that. On that basis, we've stated what we've done. It's not to create insecurity, but it's to help the opposite, so the positions should be clear. I also want to say that we have had dialogue and conversation with representatives of the financial industry and heavy business operators, and those conversations seem to me to have been constructive. I refer to what the government party has said, and suggested, in the position we are now debating. We determine that if there is a collective pension agreement, we commit ourselves to establishing private individual pension savings with tax deductions. In fact, the scope and timing of the implementation of a new scheme is part of the pension negotiations. The government will, if appropriate, submit proposals for such a savings scheme in the revised national budget for 2007. The right to save in IPA police and individual and collective annuities is passed on without tax advantages in 2007, as set out in the option. Then I want to make it clear that employers can continue to save on existing annuity contracts in 2007. However, this would be a low-cost scheme for the employee. He is simply taxed for contributions at the time of payment, while all later payments in the scheme are taxed as pension income. And finally, employers who want to continue with a collective annuity agreement after the end of the year can create a new annuity agreement. In this way, only the returns become taxable at the date of payment. Alternatively, there may be new contributions to the existing annuity agreement until the negotiations on the pension reform have been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e942	Summarizingly, I will allow myself just to point out some important things that have emerged during this debate. The first thing I want to point out is that the Progress Party will not give tax relief to farmers because they live on subsidies. Why is the Progress Party not consistent? Politicians are actually living on subsidies. Does this mean that politicians won't get tax breaks? Maritime transport in Norway is probably based on net wages and subsidies. Can it not expect tax relief from the Advance Party? The process industry and the whole public sector are probably living on subsidies, but they cannot expect tax relief from the Progress Party. Neither do those who work in private health institutions or schools expect tax relief. So the principle of that party is that if you get public subsidies, you don't have tax credits. But at the same time, I have some doubts about the principles of the Advance Party. For the property tax, it is a principle, because the Progress Party says that a pay tax many, many times, and therefore there is a principle error with property tax. So there is a distinction between NOK 220 000, which we have now adopted, and NOK 300000, which the Progress Party proposed in the bottom line. There's $80,000 that makes it a principle for the Progress Party. I'm convinced that the Progress Party understands this, and that there are important principles, but it would have been very reasonable to try to explain it to us who don't understand it. The Progress Party has endless money, and they do not listen to advice, either from the EU, from the OECD or from economic policy economists. Why, then, $300,000? Finally, the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, argues that the union quota should not be deductible because it gives the unions too much power. From the rhetoric, one might say that workers in the Left World are not going to get organized. The power becomes too large for carers, industrial workers, tenants and temporary staff, says Left. It is an important signal from a party that they are concerned about soberness, because they must be opposed to both solidarity options and wage moderation. They want people back to stand with hua in their hands and pray for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e953	I find the representative of Klungland's posts so little serious that I choose to ignore it. Just one comment that we do not listen to advice from the so-called professional economists: I am an economist myself, but I am not working in the OECD. If I had worked in the OECD, I would have been a professional economist. But I doubt that the representative Klungland had listened to me anyway. What I want to talk about is the post of the representative of the Micasen on economic theory. The progress party looks at the economy not as a constant cake, but a cake we can build bigger. That's not what the red-greens think, that you take in one penny, and then you have one more penny in welfare. That's not how it works. We want to build this pie bigger. And how do you bake a cake bigger? I'm going to mention six points about why a dynamic tax policy works, why you get more labour, and why you get more back when you put the taxes down: You get more people in the full-time position instead of in the part-time position.You get more technological innovation.You get more overtime.You get – perhaps the most important thing in our society today, where we need labour – more competent labour. What's happening today, when we get foreign labour to Norway? We have enough unskilled labour in Norway. 18,000 immigrants arrived last year, and 18,000 arrived in the previous year, but that's not the people of Norway's industrial demand. Professional labour force, competent labour force, where are they applying for? They trained the Poles, for example, where are they? They work either in their home country or in the United States. And they do because there's the higher pay. There's also a lower tax. It's a relationship. It's this so-called egalitarian society that social democrats have created here in Norway. This is the consequence: we get a lot of least common multiples, where everyone has to be treated equally. One consequence of this is that we have to have some higher pay differentials, so that we get the competent labour force that can create the economic growth and efficiency of business that we need. And so this: why doesn't the Progress Party budget with the revenue we think we get with our tax policy? We have called for long-term budgeting, and we have also asked the Central Statistical Agency to look at the impact of long-term budgeting. We can then find out the consequences of the tax policy of the Progress Party. To the representative Torgeir Mikalsen: How do you define economic growth? The only way to define economic growth is that things can be produced faster. Input-output is the definition of economic growth. I'd like to have an economic debate, but then maybe in a different forum than the storeroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e990	I was a little surprised that the representative Tybring-Gjedde would ignore representatives. We have received good advice from the Progress Party that it is not a very good idea to do so. I understand that there is a slightly new attitude – well, well. With regard to Sandal’s contribution, it is possible for me to establish the following: The representative Sandal, on behalf of the government parties, agrees that if we agree on a pension reform, private individual pension savings with tax deductions, including individual annuity schemes and collective annuity schemes, should continue to be possible. If we have established this, it is the second issue, where it is important to make it clear that the legislation of these schemes is designed with transitional arrangements that prevent the winding-up of the schemes from taking account of technical conditions. I could imagine hearing if the Minister of Finance is in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1004	First to the representative Klungland, who obviously lives in the error that politicians live on subsidies. To that end, there is a remuneration for the politicians – the Stortinget has adopted it earlier today – which is a parallel to the pay of public employees and is a payment for hard work. And as I know the representative of Klungland, he deserves every penny he gets in compensation for his hard work for land and people and not least voters in Agder. He should in no way be ashamed of it. So to the representative Klungland sends to me about the relationship with trade unions. I'm very much that someone is organizing to take care of their interests. I believe it is important that workers organise themselves to have the necessary power to stand up to the employer's power and capital power or whatever it may be. But it must, in my opinion, be based on a real freedom of organisation. For example, it is important that a future possible AFP scheme does not give large tax subsidies to those who are organised, but they must be to all employees. I think that's an important point. So when it comes to giving large tax credits, which are actually given to those who are skilled, tax incentives are given to those who choose not to be in the name of freedom of organisation. And the higher the tax deduction becomes, the more one actually chooses to withdraw from the freedom of organisation, which is, therefore, about the right not to organise, for those who want it. The left is very much for one to organize, and for trade unions, but not for building up large, strong trade unions that care for the elected government of the country, as we read about in the newspapers almost daily. So to my main errand, namely, to the Sandal representative and this with annuity, IPA and tax incentives. It is crucial, as I interpret the representative Sandal, that what is now happening in the context of the transitional rules does not prevent a wide-ranging settlement in the United Kingdom. One should then say to try to keep the doors open so much that the agreement can also include the old arrangements we have had. On that basis, the majority say in a note that the Ministry of Finance is dealing with the rules on transfers — a law to ensure this. It is essential to maintain the very point that none of the current events of this transition, possible redundancies and agreements, prevent a possible pension settlement. I would like the representative Sandal to confirm – if necessary through communication with the markets, which must not react on a false basis – that it is part of the transitional rules that are now being worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1013	I take the floor because I could not leave the posts of the representative Kenneth Svendsen unanswered. He claims with a broad pen that the proposal we have made on car charges – which in itself is not even dealt with here, because we adopted it already a few days ago, on Tuesday – leads to less secure cars and to large extra emissions of polluting gases. To that it is one thing to say: the Progress Party has not made a single proposal in connection with this to ban the kind of cars that he thought they're banning in California. They have made no proposals at all. They have not made any proposals that would make local emissions of the destructive type – particulate matter, NOx – less than what he is attacking us to do in his post. On the contrary, they will make the large cars considerably cheaper. Large diesel cars, which naturally have a larger release of a good part of the substances he's talking about, will be cheaper and get better out with the Progress Party's setup. In addition, the representative Svendsen claims that safety equipment is becoming so expensive. That's actually not right. It is fully possible to get good and safe cars in a weight class that gets cheaper with the arrangement that we have put up in our proposal. In addition, he said that it would be a real trick if we increased the annual fee next year for some of these cars. That's why we say clearly: these types of local-polluting cars are getting more expensive next year. They're getting more expensive in 2008. I'm going to repeat it as many times as necessary from Stortingen's pulpit. I would have appreciated if everyone else had also gone around and said so. That's something you have to take into account. We are concerned about the global environment, about the climate – that is why we are sponsoring CO2 and fuel-rich cars – but we are also concerned about the local environment. We didn't have to implement measures for the global environment in this year's budget just because we saw that we had to push some of the measures for the local environment to next year. One more thing: it's going to be particle filter on all cars from 2008 or from 2009. It is because there are new rules to be implemented, which in reality means that there will be particulate filters on all types of cars from then on. And this is what we're ready to do. So finally, just one thing for the Progress Party representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde: I am very happy that the Progress Party representative says that we need greater differences between people in Norway. I'm very glad he says that. It says very clearly that the Progress Party has a completely different political project from that of the majority on the Stortinget. I am very pleased that with our policies we can contribute to creating a more fair society. And it's not that we're not busy growing the cake – more kindergartens, more women out in work, better facilities for hospitals, health care, education and research. It is money that is taken into the community and prioritised. It creates bigger cake.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1032	When I drew myself on the list of speakers, it was precisely for the reason that the Minister of Finance and the representative of Reidar Sandal had received a challenge from both Hans Olav Syversen and Lars Sponheim who had not been answered. It is very important that this challenge be answered during this meeting, because now there are hundreds of thousands of individuals, a number of businesses and also insurance companies that are uncertain about how to deal with the situation related to IPA and individual and collective annuity. Let me also stress that I am very pleased with the main signals that have come from the majority parties, because the right is very concerned that we are going to have a wide-ranging pension settlement, and we are very concerned that private pension savings are going to be possible with tax deductions. Let me just repeat the two main challenges that have been given. The first relates to the fact that, if there is a broad consensus on the pension system, it is necessary to provide for tax-deductive pension savings, and that debate should allow for the reintroduction of both IPA and individual and collective annuity with tax deductions. I also understand that you do not exclude any of those arrangements in the further discussion. The second — and it is important that we be confirmed — is that the transitional arrangements mean that there is no major winding-up of individual and collective annuities, for technical reasons. It is these transitional arrangements that are now very crucial, because if such transitional arrangements are not in place, the consequence will be that collective annuities will be abolished. And that's problematic, because many of them have come as a consequence of agreements between employers and employees. Then it is not just for the employer, as the representative Sandal says, to stop the payment on these, because the payments are part of an agreement between the employee and the employer. I hope that Sandal or the Minister of Finance can confirm that transitional arrangements will be put in place to ensure that individual and collective annuities are not liquidated as a consequence of such actuarial reasons. Then I have respect for the fact that the government parties do not want to commit to schemes without knowing that they are getting into a pension agreement. But as long as there's a chance that this pension agreement will come into place, and that this can be part of it, I think we're all earned that the transition arrangements are adapted, and that it can become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1045	The issue of individual pension saving and annuity is a hot political topic in the debate. It is also discussed in detail in the position that we are now debating. That is why I used a good part of my article today to comment both on specific questions and to give fundamental consideration to this matter. I would like to stress, since the representative Sanner earlier in the debate – and the representatives Syversen and Sponheim now later – noted that from the government side, it is an important starting point that a collective pension settlement can be created in the Stortinget. We'll make it up to you. And once we have commented on this in the vote, it is precisely to show both a liberalism in relation to possible negotiating parties in the future, with which we may agree, and also to give a signal about how we think about this work. But we're not going to enter into exact negotiations from the Stortingen Chair. I think we're all going to have to assume that this is going to be the line ahead. With regard to the specific questions raised by the representative Syversen and insofar as the representative Sponheim also mentioned, I will refer to the considerations I have given both in my main post and in my previous post. Our stand is the setting of the Committee, with the modification in relation to the Government's arrangement that we are proposing to change two of the transitional rules. It's embedded in the setting, the material is there. So we're going to say that if there's a collective agreement, we're going to commit ourselves to establishing private individual pension savings with tax deductions. We report on this again in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget for 2007 — if there is a settlement. The right to save in IPA police and individual and collective annuities is passed on in 2007, without tax advantages. It has been our signal, and further signals beyond those I have given in my posts, we will not give in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1058	Lars Sponheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1062	There are certainly limits to how far we can go into more technical aspects of this debate, other than stressing what Sandal’s representative now said – and I think it is important to use it if we are to have real pension negotiations in the next few weeks in Stortingen – namely that it is necessary to facilitate a comprehensive pension settlement through the transitional arrangements. That means that there has to be an option in the pension negotiations, that the schemes we have can be continued. The Minister of Finance will then have to ensure that these transitional rules are complied with, otherwise the boomerang will be in the pension negotiations in Stortinget. I believe that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, when they get peace from the Storting for a few days, will sit down and find it very sensible and make sure that we do not close any of the negotiating doors. That's what we're asking for. On such a basis, the negotiator would also be prepared to arrive at a good pension settlement. At the same time, during this transitional period, there must be real communication with market players that ensures that no one does anything on a false basis or does anything rash to prevent us from bringing about a wide-ranging pension settlement, which Norway needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1071	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1074	Now there is a lot of goodwill in Stortinget. However, it presupposes that the majority parties follow up on what Mr Sandal says, namely that transitional arrangements will be made for the reintroduction of private tax-deducted pension schemes and include both IPA and individual and collective annuity. I would like to stress the seriousness of this matter. The three previous government parties are very clear on this, namely that we assume that the transitional rules are adapted and that we do not get a large-scale termination of, among other things. collective annuity schemes for purely technical reasons. This is an important matter, and it has not ended with this discussion. We are going to follow very closely the transitional rules that are being developed. I hope that it will now be followed up, so that we can achieve an overall pension settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1083	Hans Olav Syversen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1086	I would like to thank the representative Sandal for his answers to questions. It is a challenge – and I know that the industry has also expressed this to the government parties – that the legislation is designed so that what we really agree on, can actually be implemented as well. We know that there have been questions related to the comment made by the majority parties. But based on what Sandal has just said, we assume that this is also technically feasible. I would also like to add from the Christian People's Party that if, in retrospect, it was not possible to obtain these transitional arrangements because the will was not followed up by practical measures, it is clear that it also has an impact on the cooperation climate in terms of a possible broad pension settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1093	The three former government parties have made a big point of the debate on private pension savings schemes today. Then I think it is important to clarify that this is not the case, as Sponheim suggests, that we should close some negotiating doors. In fact, the negotiating doors are open and have been open all along, but no one has yet entered those doors because we have not started the negotiations to set up a new pension system. It was the three previous government parties that linked the proposal to the new IPA tax rules and annuities presented in the State budget to the pension case. We from the government parties said from the first moment: it's okay, we're prepared to look at it, assuming that we're going to have an overall pension settlement, a new overall pension settlement. I'm very optimistic in that way. I feel it is a great goodwill both in the current government parties and in the three previous government parties – in all six parties. The progress party I keep outside because they have their own arrangement. But I would like to emphasise again that we have not started those negotiations. We are doing a good job and are going to be negotiating over and over again. And then we have to put in place a whole deal. There's a lot of pieces that have to fit into that equation. If we get such a deal, which I hope we do, we also need to agree on future private pension schemes. We start this work gradually and must have the reconciliation in place, so that we can get what has been signalled in the financial position, if necessary, in the revised budget – if we get to the consensus I hope for. I just want to de-dramatize this. The three previous government parties should not now produce more drama than is necessary in this case. If it's will, we'll find solutions to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1104	I will not be involved in extending the debate, but I need to clarify the following: we are now discussing an important issue. We are the representatives of the government parties, some of them, and so are the former government parties. I also see it as being, as several of us have said, that it's basically a good willingness to try to find a broad settlement. I am busy that the basic tone of everything that has been said by the government party in this matter today is that we should help to ensure that it can be a good negotiating climate in the future. Then I want to clarify that I am in for what I have said. I am not in favour of others' interpretations of what we have written, and what has been said in the debate. I'm in for what we've written, and what we've said. There's a line. With regard to transitional rules, which have been a theme today, we have made two changes to the Government’s proposal – precisely as a consequence of the comment made on the possibilities of a broad and holistic pension settlement once after New Year’s, saying that we are committed to establishing private individual pension savings with tax deductions, whether such a settlement is made. But we haven't committed ourselves to, or wanted, going into a detailed description beyond this. I'm asking you to respect that. I think it would make little sense if, for an open microphone, we should start going to work in more detail. I feel very confident that the finance minister has noticed this, and that we communicate well about how the government party and government work together in this matter as in other matters. When there's been a lot of debate about this today, it's because it has implications that have to do with taxes. I understand that, but we also have to remember that things have other dimensions, which are not to be resolved in a tax debate in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1113	Yes, it is right that the majority parties have proposed transitional rules. What must be stressed by the previous government parties is that transitional rules must be in place to resolve the technical conditions in relation to the possibility of individual and collective annuity schemes being wound up. I wish that the representative Sandal could emphasize the will to do the same, because we are not sure – I feel that you are. Even if you underline your good will to reach a settlement, I feel like you're keeping something open here. It is not the case that Myrli's representative has to negotiate a settlement first, and then you have to look at the technical arrangements for saving – it's the other way around. In the agreement, these arrangements are to be part of what is being discussed. In order to facilitate it, it is necessary to either stress what I am saying today from the pulpit here, or at least to get an acceptance from the representative Sandal that, yes, that's how we want to do it to facilitate the negotiations. I feel that the previous government parties, if this is not done, may go from this meeting with an uncertainty that of course will proliferate into the negotiations that are coming. That's the one. The second is that all those with these schemes, these hundreds of thousands of people – the industry and businesses around – will still be in an uncertain vacuum. I ask that the representative Sandal join me in stressing this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 173]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1134	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will further suggest that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1143	The new Labour Environment Act entered into force on 1 January 2006. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 91 for 2005-2006, certain amendments to this Act, in particular on working time, apply in addition to an amendment to the Discrimination Act. The old work environment law of 1977 contained a general access for the Labour Inspectorate to consent to a different system of working time than that followed by the working time chapter. The general basis was removed in the new law, partly because of the Working Time Directive. An overall committee shares the Government's view that an extension of the scope of exemption of the Labour Inspectorate in terms of working time arrangements is necessary. Through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 91 and the proposals for new paragraphs of the Working Environment Act will now again be possible for the administration to be able to exempt from the working time rules, but only in certain cases. The Committee shall be divided into a majority and a minority as to the extent to which this exemption shall be granted. The left and I belong to the minority, who believe that the Labour Inspectorate can benefit from a slightly more extensive exemption than the majority suggests. The Labour Environment Act shall ensure that workers are properly protected against occupational injury and exploitation. At the same time, the law must be adapted to the needs of the new labour market for flexibility and individual solutions. The left considers it to be a paradox that the new Labour Environment Act provided less flexibility in a labour market that needs more flexible arrangements. For this reason, the Left has agreed on a slightly wider basis for the Labour Inspectorate to be able to derogate from the working time rules of the Working Environment Act. The majority’s proposal for a derogation means that the Labour Inspectorate cannot agree to different working time arrangements unless ‘it is of safety importance to facilitate a comprehensive regulation of working time arrangements at work’. To bind the supervisory administrative authority only to be able to dispense in these cases, the Left considers it unnecessary to bind the administrative authority. We believe that the Labour Inspectorate should be able to agree to appropriate working time arrangements even if this deviates from the general rules. There may be other reasons for different working time arrangements. On this basis, the left considers that it should be possible to open more opportunities for employees to work more in part of the year in agreement with the employer, whereas this can be taken out as longer leave other parts of the year. It is important for me to stress that the Left does not believe that it should be free to agree working time arrangements that go well. We do not want the working time regulations to be waived, but we want the Labour Inspectorate to have an opportunity to assess in concrete terms whether other working time arrangements are acceptable. The government assumes that the supervisory authorities do not grant exemptions unless the employees wish to follow the scheme applied for. I agree. In addition, it is important that overtime and very demanding working time arrangements cannot be imposed without the employee’s wishes. We therefore want it to be explicitly stated in the legal text that the employee must in each case consent in these cases. Furthermore, it is a matter of course for us that health and safety are taken care of. Therefore, of course, the worker must be compensated by rest or appropriate protection. I finally allow myself to look at the role of the legislator in regulating, but not necessarily in detail. I think I can safely say that everyone here, whether for a snowmobile or for access by the Labour Inspectorate to derogate from the working time rules, agrees that workers should not be subjected to any adverse stress. Thus, by providing the Labour Inspectorate with a slightly further exemption, it is not said that the working time rules will come out of control. Such thinking is based on a fear of empowering the administration to exercise discretion in the specific case. The left considers that it is important to balance flexibility with worker protection. We believe that the minority's proposals do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1166	We are currently examining a number of proposals for changes and adjustments to the Working Environment Act, but most of the changes are minor adjustments and adaptations that have been discussed to a lesser extent. On some points, the Committee has shared, and I would like to comment on these points. The government's proposal for amendments to the second paragraph of Section 10-4 is only of a technical nature, and I assume that this will not have any actual changes to the current working time arrangements. The proposal for a new third paragraph of the same paragraph is only considered to be a modernisation of the wording in line with the technological developments that have taken place. The concept of home watch is replaced by the phrase ‘out-of-work emergency watch’. However, with regard to the freedom of exemption of the Labour Inspectorate when there is a long distance between the place of work and the place of residence of the worker, the Committee has split in such a way that the majority, where the Workers' Party is involved, supports the Government's proposal for a new Section 10-12, sixth paragraph, with a clarification that the exemption should only be granted where it is of safety importance to facilitate the overall regulation of working time arrangements at work. The minority of the Committee, the Party of Advances, the Right and the Left, wishes to grant a more extensive exemption. The majority believe that this is not desirable. We put the emphasis on workers' need for protection. The Working Environment Act of 1977 gave the Labour Inspectorate exemption, as the Advocate General also mentioned in his statement. While the EU Working Time Directive does not allow the general exemption to continue, derogations may be made under more detailed conditions in certain sectors. In civil engineering, working time arrangements are common, with continuous working periods of long days, in return for long continuous periods of free time during which to obtain the necessary rest and recovery. The law in force gives the parties to undertakings bound by a collective agreement the possibility of agreeing in writing a derogation from the provisions on unemployment. But then the ministry received signals that it is problematic that the supervisory authorities do not have exemption. In consultation opinions, employee organisations have stated that there is no need for extended exemption. The Landsforening and Norsk Industrie of the oil industry believe that it is unfortunate to have different working time arrangements on a plant, based on both an operational and safety assessment. I'll comment on some of this. It is our opinion that current legislation is sufficiently flexible in terms of operational conditions. In companies with collective bargaining agreements, it is possible to conclude agreements which seem to meet the needs of both companies and employees in a good way. Furthermore, through contractual works and trustees, employees have a protection to confer on the parties the right to conclude flexible agreements. The minority believes that such an agreement between the employer and the individual employee is sufficient. The majority disagree. Once again, we place the emphasis on workers' need for protection. Foreign enterprises not covered by the Norwegian collective bargaining agreement have also been cited as arguments for dumping. On the part of the majority, we would point out that it is fully possible for foreign companies which for natural reasons are not initially covered by the Norwegian tariff agreement to enter into the tariff agreement. This may be done by means of a so-called accession agreement, whereby one undertakes to comply with Norwegian agreements on pay and working conditions, including agreed working time arrangements. However, we take note that both supervisory authorities and employers’ organisations believe that different working time arrangements may be unfortunate based on safety considerations. Against this background, we support the Government's proposal that exemptions should only be granted when they are justified on safety grounds. In order not to allow misunderstandings, the majority of the committee – the members of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party – has also chosen to include this in the legal text. We state that no exemption should be granted without employees wanting to comply with the scheme applied for and require evidence of this before granting a derogation. A last question relates to the employee’s right to vote in the event of a transfer of activities. An employee today has the legal right to refuse to join a new company. The question is: does he have the right to remain in a contract of employment with his former employer? Exceptionally, such a right exists only through case-law. No change is proposed to this effect at this time, but the Ministry indicates in its proposal that there may be a need to assess clarification and possible legislative adoption of that electoral right. Here the majority refers to the Government's assessments and subscribes to those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1192	The Progress Party believes that it is important that working time provisions do not close to flexible working time arrangements. The labour market is diverse, and we believe that it is important to have a derogation in cases where flexible collective agreements with different working time arrangements cannot be concluded. In several sectors, divergent working time arrangements will be necessary, for example in the health and care sectors, the watch and monitoring sectors, and construction. The Progress Party supports the availability of Section 10-12, sixth paragraph, but with different content. The Progress Party considers that merging the terms ‘precautionary service’ and ‘passive service’ in the concept of ‘passive work’ could lead to a significant extension of the basis for exemption in the case of passive service. Such an extension will, as the Progress Party sees it, contribute to difficult border climbs and misunderstandings. Several hearing bodies point out that the merger will not make any clarification, and the Progress Party agrees with this view. The Progress Party also agrees with the Landsorganisation that today’s distinction between the two concepts is well established and that there are no factors that strongly suggest that they should be changed. On this basis, the Progress Party will vote against the amendment to the second and third paragraphs of Section 10-4. Furthermore, we support the proposal for extended exemption but, like a number of hearing bodies, we believe that the exemption should not be limited to those cases where the parties do not have contractual competence. Furthermore, we believe that the diversity of today's working life requires access to different working time arrangements. Like the Society’s Main Organisation and the Local Government’s Central Association, the Progress Party believes that flexible working time schemes will be needed in a number of fields of work, such as: in the health and care sectors, in the oil industry and in relation to key societal tasks such as civil engineering, transport and telecommunications services. In particular, in areas where time-limits are essential for the activity and the economic living conditions of the establishment, access to special working time arrangements is required and the Progress Party will facilitate an extended exemption. It is important that current working time arrangements are supported by employees and we will limit the exemption of the Labour Inspectorate to cases where such support can be obtained. This gives workers good protection. The Progress Party supports the proposal for a rewording of the concept of home watch to ‘out-of-work standby’ and agrees with the Ministry that technological developments have given the concept of home watch a different content in today’s situation. However, the Progress Party agrees with the Main Organisation of the Economy, which has, in its opinion, been in favour of leaving out-of-work emergency compensation to be agreed between the parties. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals to this effect in a legal text to Section 10-4, fourth paragraph. I therefore take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1211	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1214	The provisions of the Working Environment Act on working time shall ensure that the job becomes a part of the life of each employee, but not the life itself. The requirements for efficiency, flexibility and labour market performance are increasing. It is therefore important that legislation provides a good framework to prevent burnout and facilitate a safe working environment. We know that in some cases employers and employees are united in the fight for more flexible working time regulations. Employees may wish the highest possible wage in the short term, and employers may be interested in using experienced labour to maintain operations and expected progress in production. Nevertheless, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that working time regulations must provide a framework for legal working time that is not waived. Of course, working time arrangements should take into account both employers’ needs for adaptation and competitiveness, and workers’ needs for leisure, rest and safety. However, there is no doubt that the Work Environment Act is primarily a protection law to ensure a working life in which workers can work well, and not least for a long time. However, experience with current working time regulations shows that in some cases it has not been possible to continue working time arrangements that have been practised and that have worked properly for several years. In particular, there has been a problem that many organised workers have had the possibility of contract-based extensions during working hours, while there has been no equal opportunity for unorganised workers and for those organised in trade unions without the right to leave. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal for a limited extension of the access of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority to exemptions from the working time rules in the health and care sector, the watch and monitoring sector and in cases where there is a long distance between the workplace and the residence of the employee. We believe that the proposed legislative changes at this point appropriately weigh the consideration of flexibility in terms of safety. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the proposal of the Progressive Party, Right and Left for a new Section 10-12, sixth paragraph of the Working Environment Act goes too far. The minority's proposal was originally drawn up by the Norwegian Industry Employers' Association. In my opinion, it is very alarming to read their reasons for going against the proposal in the proposition in a note dated 7 November this year. Norwegian Industry explicitly writes in the note: ‘There may be no unilateral emphasis on safety issues in respect of projects which cannot be carried out without accompanying workers.’ The association believes that the consideration of workers' travel and production considerations should be as weighty as the consideration of workers' safety, and that is where we in the Christian People's Party say stop! We do not compromise with the lives and health of workers. So that's why we support the bill in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1236	Today's case is just one in the series where the Government reviews the Working Environment Act. The need to remain on the watch for the Work Environment Act as a protection law for workers is increasing in the globalised working life we are now in the middle of. The difference between the majority and the minority is not very great in this case. Fortunately, in dealing with several issues related to changes in the Working Environment Act here in Stortingen, we have recently seen how the willingness to stand up to protect workers' rights seems to be developing more than I think we might have seen as we had the major review of the reversal of the changes in the Labour Environment Act of the previous government, in the previous year, in 2005. The majority emphasises that exemptions from the working time scheme provided for in the Environmental Protection Act cannot be made without the employee wishing to follow the schemes applied for. The majority also clarify that the exemption should be justified on safety grounds, and we include this in the legal text. It is important, both for safety reasons and in the light of the situation of workers, that exemption schemes do not become so transparent as to develop a culture in which agreements on deviation from the law become more the rule than the exception. I agree with the considerations put forward by the representative Woie Duesund about the reason for this adjustment. The majority, through a stricter interpretation of the exemption rules, take better account of a labour protection law than does the minority in their proposals. I am pleased that we are getting such a broad majority for this review of the Working Environment Act, and hope that it will also continue for later reviews.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1247	The proposals for amendments to the Working Environment Act and the Discrimination Act that Odelstinget will be considering today are mainly minor technical adjustments. In some areas, a certain extension of the scope of exemption of the Labour Inspectorate has been proposed. This has its background in the Ministry’s input on the need for somewhat more flexible working time arrangements in some sectors. The main purpose of regulating working time is to ensure that workers have a working time that does not impose unnecessary health and social burdens on them and their immediate family. At the same time, labour time regulation must take account of the diversity of working life and therefore many different working time arrangements are necessary. An important tool for achieving this is access to collective bargaining agreements on different working time arrangements. However, there have been some situations where there is a factual need for divergent working time arrangements, where the parties want such arrangements, but do not have the sufficient competence to conclude collective agreements to this end. It is the Government’s view that, in such cases, the Labour Inspectorate should be given an opportunity to grant exemptions from some of the working time arrangements, where there are specific circumstances which justify this. I believe such a special relationship is available, among other things. in the health and care sector when the work part of the time is passive and therefore allows workers to rest and decoupling periods. Another area where there is a need for extended exemption is work on civil engineering, and then to enable an overall working time system at workplaces where there are several employers operating. Since this is not a passive activity, it is shown in the proposition that the exemption should be limited to cases where granting a derogation is of safety concern. The fact that the majority of the Committee is in favour of this limitation in the freedom of exemption being made clear in the legislative text means, to the extent that only a clarification of the Government's proposal is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1265	I have to take every opportunity to have a line. We know that businesses are not rarely transferred as part of rationalisation processes. Often, there is considerable uncertainty among employees about the change to the new owner and employer. There is considerable uncertainty about the extent to which employees are entitled to choose to continue the employment of their old employer when the business is sold. In the view of the Christian People's Party, there is a significant need for this issue to be clarified by law. Will the Council of State help us quickly to get a bill to the Stortinget that helps to resolve this dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1274	This was more question time than a line chord shift. But anyway, I think I'm just choosing to answer that way that we work continuously with the Working Environment Act. I agree with the topic raised by the representative is important. I don't dare here and now say in what way and when we want to approach the Greatness with the theme. But I agree that we share a mutual commitment that this is an important topic, and I'm of course going to take with me what Woie Duesund now says, and look at it when we actually work on this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1279	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1289	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1297	21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party and Left Amendment No. 4, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 5-14, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 15-18, from Svein Flätten on behalf of the Right and the Left, no. 19 from Svein Flätten, on behalf of the Right-wing Draft No. 20, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 21, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left. In order to reduce the number of votes – about 40, however, there are many – the President, after convening with the members of the financial committee, will propose a unified voting order. In this case, if minority proposals fall, the proposers will then support the vote on these paragraphs. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. I'm going to go through how the president intends to propose how we're going to vote: The vote is first on all minority proposals, where we start with the smallest fraction, and then we vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, where we start with all the laws that are supposed to be adopted unanimously. Here, the President will first take up all the paragraphs which different fractions want to vote against.This is how all paragraphs of the Tax Act that are assumed to be unanimously adopted are voted on, and the remaining laws, I, P and Q, so that those who wish to vote against it here too, are given the opportunity to do so. – No objections have been raised to this, and this will be the case. It is then first voted on proposal No. Twenty-one from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 23-2 shall be replaced by the following:The French Republic after the first paragraph shall apply only if the total remuneration of the institutions or the organisation is less than 450 000 kroner, and only for pay payments up to 45000 kroner per year. I.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2007 year of income.» [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1374	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1402	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 6-20 is replaced by the following:The total deduction may be made by up to DKK 1800 or by a proportionate part of that amount when the deductible quota has been paid for only part of the year of income.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2007.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1427	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16 and 18, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1490	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5–14, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1717	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 concerning taxes on wealth and income, point (d) of the first paragraph of Article 14 to 43 is amended as follows: passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. [[tax laws]] – 25 p.II.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2007 year of income.» The Progress Party has warned that they support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1744	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 4 March 1983 3 on government officials, etc. paragraph 13 is amended as follows: 6 shall be deleted; Current Section 13 No. 7 becomes new Section 13 paragraph. 6.The title of Section 13 is replaced by the following:Preferential right to a new post.§ 13 para. 1 to No 5 is replaced by the following: 1st@item: inlistbox The person entitled to a waiting wage at the date of entry into force of the amendment retains the right to a waiting wage in accordance with the rules in force at the time of the amendment.2. For workers in establishments which have been granted rights under Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6, pursuant to each provision of such special legislation, waiting wages may be allowed even after the repeal of Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6.3. The Ministry may provide that workers in named State establishments may be entitled to a waiting wage after the repeal of Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6, however, not so as to permit waiting wages for employees who are retired later than one year after the entry into force of the amending Act.4. The admission of waiting wages after the second and third subparagraphs may be effected only if the conditions laid down in Law No 4 March 1983 No. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6 is met.5. Detailed rules for waiting wages under this provision may be laid down by the King in a regulation. Law III of 28 July 1949 No. 26 on the State Pension Fund is amended as follows: Paragraph 20, first paragraph, point (f) is deleted. The current point (g) shall become the new point (f) Paragraph 24, third paragraph, shall be deleted; the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 27 shall be replaced by the following: The provision of this paragraph shall also apply to a nominated member. The transitional rules provided for are as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox Members of the State Pension Fund as in the event of the repeal of Law No 28 July 1949. 26 if the State Pension Fund Paragraph 24 of the third paragraph is entitled to appeals under this provision, may receive appeals in accordance with the rules applicable in the event of revocation.2. Law 28 July 1949 No. 26 on Statens Pensionskasse § 20, first paragraph, point (f) shall continue to apply to those who have a waiting salary under the previous provision of Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6 and for those who have left under the previous provision of the third paragraph of Section 24 even after the repeal of those provisions. IIIThe amendments under I and II shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1815	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 6 to 20 are deleted. III Amendment I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2007 revenue year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1840	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e1910	A vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision, the letters A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, K, M, N and O.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e3774	And then I go back to L and I'm going to vote first over IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e3824	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e3837	The third and fourth paragraphs of Section 2-3, Section 2-3, third paragraph, and Section 8-1, fifth paragraph, first and third sentences of Section 8-1, as well as the eighth paragraph and Sections 10-70 and 14-25.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4012	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4026	It's going to get so daunted over x.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4057	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4070	So it's going to be over VIII § 5-15 first paragraph, point a. 1st sentence and Section 17-1, first paragraph, point (e), first sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4094	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4106	The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4-12 and the sixth paragraph of Section 4-12 and the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4-13 will then be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4179	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4192	So it's going to be over VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4321	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4334	And then the rest of the Roman numerals and the paragraphs under L.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4530	It's getting so wet over you. The Committee had set up:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4587	We vote first on paragraph 2, first paragraph, in the lower case, in the lower case, in the lower case. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4602	We'll vote over the rest of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4612	We have then come to P, and it is first argued over §§ 1-3 new second paragraph, 10-1 new third paragraph and 19-3 paragraphs. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4651	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e4664	It's going to be over the remaining part of P.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5333	We've come to Q.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5364	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5377	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5388	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5396	During the debate, two proposals were put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5498	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5510	The President will now deal with proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5528	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5535	The number of votes shall then be 54 against the proposal and 18 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5625	There is an alternative proposal from the Group of the European People's Party, the Right and the Left, and proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 10-12 new sixth paragraph is replaced by the following:With the exception of the first, second and fourth paragraphs of Section 10-2 and the seventh paragraphs of Section 10-11, the supervisory body may agree to the working time system which derogates from the provisions of this Chapter when there is a long distance between the place of work and the place of residence of the worker. Derogations from the first and second paragraphs of Section 10-8 and the fifth and sixth paragraphs of Section 10-12 require that employees are guaranteed equivalent compensatory rest periods or, where this is not possible, other appropriate protection. For the use of overtime, the conditions apply to the first paragraph of Section 10-6. The employee must consent to overtime work on a case-by-case basis. The requirement of individual consent shall apply mutatis mutandis where consent is given to the average working time of more than 48 hours in seven days in one year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5728	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5738	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-01-lower.ana.ud788e5749	There is no record.
