ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e41	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given to comments from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e50	The issue we are about to deal with now concerns changes to the legal provisions on the use of annual targets and temporary employment in the Higher Education Act. The law was before the Church, Education and Research Committee in February 2005. At that time, the Progress Party, together with the current government parties, asked for a separate case to be submitted assessing the need for self-regulation in the special law of universities and colleges that allowed for the very use of annual targets and temporary employment. The Progress Party provided that the issue of annual periods and their length would be dealt with as a result of the conclusions of the Labour Law Committee and that the need for regulation in specific laws would no longer be necessary. In retrospect, one can see that unfortunately we did not receive such clarification when the Working Environment Act was dealt with by Stortinget in June 2005. It is worth noting that the current government parties at the time stated that they could not see that ‘there are specific conditions that allow universities and colleges to have more access to temporary employment than other sectors’. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party this time show a much more sensible and realistic attitude. The use of annual and temporary posts is both correct and necessary for a number of types of posts, as illustrated by the Ministry in an excellent manner in its proposal and to which a unanimous committee has given its agreement. There is also full agreement to impose a limit on the maximum duration of the annual target period for managing directors similar to that available for artistic teaching and research positions. However, the essence of this proposal is a type of position in which the Ministry wishes to remove the possibility of using annual targets, namely project positions. Despite the fact that several of the institutions stress the importance of continuing this provision, the Ministry proposes to abolish it, supposedly in the interests of employees. An overall opposition would strongly warn against this amendment. Project work is naturally a specific one-off task. A project has specific time and cost frameworks. Such project positions have a high degree of professional specialisation, and it could pose problems for institutions to relocate these employees after the end of the project. The legislative changes will lead to a widespread use of redundancies, which will be very resource-intensive for the institutions, while creating uncertainty for the project worker. Since the Law on Education and Higher Education is common to private and state universities and colleges, it has ensured equal treatment of workers in teaching and research positions in participating in projects. If the provision is removed, this non-discrimination will cease. Private institutions must relate to the provisions of the Labour Environment Act and the State to the Civil Service Act. The research projects in question are often linked to external, time-limited funding. The removal of the legal provision will lead to a distortion of competition in relation to externally funded tasks. It is also worth noting the problems that arise for the State institutions if the research projects unexpectedly exceed four years and the project staff achieves so-called strong job protection. There has been cross-political agreement in this room about that 3 pst. GDP will be researched in 2010. With the Government's attack on research both in the budget for 2006 and later revised, and now the last in the draft budget for next year, we are further away from that goal than ever in the last 20 years. Not since 1985 has a lower share of GDP been spent on research and education. So what does the Government do in this situation? Yes, it will provide an additional measure that is likely to lead to a reduction in research. Projects initiated by the Norwegian Research Council, which have a duration of five years, will now have to lead to resource-intensive cancellations with costs likely to be borne by the institutions. So what are the reasons for such a proposal? We know that the Minister of Knowledge has a State Secretary who has previously asked questions about whether it is reasonable to have this ‘3 pst.’ target. At the same time, however, the Minister could not have missed the fact that Norway spends less on research than other countries. Sweden, for example, uses a whole 4 pst. of its GDP and Finland 3,5 pst. In my opinion, the answer is probably in what the Prime Minister said in the persuasion debate. He outlined the goal of the government's success. The Government shall implement the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration, he said. The success criterion was drawn up through the statement:‘This is what we promised. [[...]] So what have the government parties promised in the Soria Moria Declaration? It says, ‘The government will reverse decisions on increased access to temporary employment’. What we see here today is the Minister of Knowledge contribution in this way. Out of 10–12 different types of annual target positions in the university and higher education sectors, one is eliminated. Then the government parties can stand in 2009 and strike their breasts and say that they have reduced the possibility of temporary addition. It'll be pathetic. The opposition has tried to offer government parties a form of compromise in which the maximum length of this type of project is reduced by a total of 17 pst. Unfortunately, in this crossroads, the government parties will not listen to constructive proposals from the other parties on the Stortinget either. It is regrettable that once again we have reduced the scope for research efforts and that Norway, as a knowledge nation, is being weakened. Finally, I would like to address the minority's proposal, from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, which is about to maintain the opportunity provided by the law. today. If this proposal were to fall, we would signal our subsidiary support for the proposal, which is aimed at reducing the maximum time for this type of set-aside, in line with the reality we are actually living in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e78	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e81	During the interaction debate in Stortinget earlier today, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen had a meeting with representatives of Tekna. A young and capable female researcher was asked how we can recruit more capable female researchers. Her answer was permanent employment and full child-care coverage. We are not going to talk about full child care coverage today, although the government has done a lot in that area. But we're going to talk about the big problem; today you have an average age for permanent employment at universities and colleges of 42 years. The majority believe that we cannot have an employment policy in higher education and research based on temporary employment in this sector much, much longer than in other sectors. Such an employment policy has a major impact on both the recruitment of the best researchers and the quality of Norwegian research. The representative Odd Einar Dørum spoke during the interpellation debate earlier today about the need for predictability, because unpredictability often fixes established gender structures. Is there one thing that helps create unpredictability, especially for women, is temporary employment. The majority believe that we have a flexible system of the proposal that we are promoting today. The Civil Service Act provides for four years of temporary addition to the project position in addition to educational positions such as scholarship and postdoctoral positions. In our view, these provisions provide sufficient flexibility in terms of temporary dismissal and job losses. One of the arguments for temporary employment is for greater flexibility for institutions. But we have to think long-term in research. We're talking here about researchers who are highly sought after in the labour market, and we have to compete with the private business community. What can academia attract young, promising students? They can lure them into maybe getting a scientific assistant position for some time, then they can qualify for over four years to a doctorate, and then they can qualify for a post-doctoral scholarship position and one up to 12 years of project position. Who wants to bet on a research career in a sector with so poor employment that you're in the middle of the 40s before you get a permanent position? One of the main competitive advantages of the public sector over the private sector is that while private individuals are often able to compete on wages, the public sector can compete on security. But in academia, you can't compete for pay or for security. It prevents us from getting hold of the best minds. We are also concerned that more use of permanent employment ensures professionally critical and committed researchers. Researchers must be able to present controversial research results and positions without fear that this would reduce their ability to pursue a career in academia. We believe that this right is strengthened by the desire for more permanent employment. The representative Gåsvatn accused the majority of being pathetic during his intervention. I'm not going to use that kind of word about Gåsvatn's party, but I'm going to point out that I think it's strange that the representative Gåsvatn thinks it's pathetic that the majority wants to spend an extra 10 billion kroner for the Research Fund when the Progress Party, the times they have adopted budgets in this big business, have only taken a few to three billion extras for research. "Patically" could possibly be a suitable word. However, I am not using that kind of accusation against my co-representatives. The Government also takes permanent employment seriously by restricting the possibility of 12 years of temporary employment. The policy of the majority government demonstrates an overall strengthening of the conditions of employees in the university and higher education sectors. With such a policy, academia can compete for the best minds.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e104	This is, as you know, no budget debate, and we'll get back to it. But I cannot resist the temptation to comment on Huitfeldt's statements that the Progress Party and the bourgeois government have increased the Research Fund by a few to three billion in the years since 2001. When we took over in 2001, the Research Fund was DKK 10 billion. Had it not been for the cut red-green government made in the additional proposition last year, the fund could today be NOK 85 billion. So we have behind us a significant increase in funding, and that is absolutely necessary to ensure predictability and commitment to research. First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good piece of work. This is a case that has a certain history, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur, and it is a matter in which I feel absolutely certain that all the parties here in the Chamber have carefully assessed what speaks for, and what speaks against, a change. It is clear that, on the one hand, we have wanted from, among other things, The Research Association on creating greater predictability for researchers and safer employment frameworks, and on the other hand the institutions' desire for flexibility, on a greater degree of interdisciplinary, transfer of competences and professional integration, and not least the ability and ability to attract excellence from abroad as well. In addition, the issue is important for the recruitment of research projects and for the organisation of the specific initiatives, such as: Centres for Excellent Research and Centres for Research-driven Innovation. When the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Left, goes in order to keep § 6-4, first paragraph, point (e) as it stands, it has its reasons in the very clear recordings that have come from the university and higher education sectors and from the research environments. Some of the recordings have been reported by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, but more has been recorded during the Committee's work, and they have been elaborated and clarified. The Ministry refers to the justification for the provision in point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 6-4 of the consultation note to the amendment of the law. It says: ‘The provision was introduced in the light of varying student inflows and the recruitment situation of the university and higher education sectors. Furthermore, research projects have clearly defined their character and many of the projects have limited external funding. Scientific staff are highly professionally specialised, and a project may be closely linked to individual competence. A high degree of specialisation is required in a teaching and research position, but at the same time limits the possibility of staff redeployment when a limited project is completed.» A particular issue that has been raised by several people is the bet around the SFF and the SFI. In order to be able to continue with the same success, institutions are dependent on being able to collect highly specialised and well-educated staff. The University and Higher Education Council believes that the legislative proposal to remove the paragraph will hamper the possibility of developing the most excellent research environments we have in Norway. So these are environments in the absolute, international top class. The University and Higher Education Council fears that the proposal may weaken Norway as a research nation. The SFFs and SFIs have a further major challenge in relation to this legislative proposal, namely a five-year time-limited project and funding period with the possibility of extension. In other words, they depend entirely on access to temporary research and teaching positions. The result of the legislative proposal may also be that institutions need to continue the allocation ratio beyond the duration of the research project, and it will commit funds to new projects, which would actually require a different competence. Others have pointed out that a repeal of point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 6-4 will make the student inflows of research projects difficult. This moment is further reinforced by the fact that the draft budget presented on Friday does not contain a single new grant position. Both the research report and the recruitment notice indicate an increase of 350 scholarship holders per year, including in 2007. Scholarship positions are direct recruitment to research. The scholarship holders are researchers in education. We have in the Right weighted the considerations for and against. I have a great deal of understanding of the research association's desire to ensure a stronger job protection for researchers, but I also have a lot of understanding and deep concern about the signals we have received from the university and higher education community and from the research communities. They clearly state that the proposal could lead to a dramatic deterioration in the conditions for Norwegian research in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e126	Today's case concerns changes to the provision on the use of annual targets and temporary employment in the Higher Education Act. In 2005, the Storting asked the question whether there is still a need for separate provisions of the Higher Education Act on the use of annual targets and temporary employment. An overall committee today answers conditionally yes to that question. We agree that the law becomes more user-friendly with such provisions. Some of the possibilities for goals are agreed upon by all parties. This applies not least to the possibility of employing managers on a yearly basis. It is good to ensure the renewal of leadership, which will also provide professional renewal. Leaders are basically privileged people. Scientists are also privileged people. But as a working group, there are increasing numbers of them, and we cannot offer them such weak employment rights. I am aware that this also applies to teaching and research positions in projects, and not just researchers, although I use the word «researchers» here. Here we are at the heart of the dispute, Section 6-4, first paragraph, point (e), which the Government with good reason will repeal. It is not appropriate to have a legal status in 2006 which allows a large group of temporary workers to walk for up to 12 years. In this case, there is a certain conflict between some of the employers and all the employee organisations. No one should be surprised that a red-green government places great emphasis on employee organisations in such a case. In addition, when a number of research-intensive institutions, employers, either support or do not comment on the proposed legislation, the choice is simple. A red thread in the Soria Moria Declaration is the ambition to increase employees’ rights – less exclusion and more security. There is good reason to ask citizens what security 12 years will provide for temporary contracts. Some people probably think that research is a call, and that researchers have to be willing to give up the security of homes, homes and families, as permanent employees do. I note that this is the union of the research staff strongly disagreed with. This applies to all organisations representing the employees, as well as to part of the employers. It is possible that the University of Bergen has something in mind when they write that there has not been a need for as long years as four years, with a maximum limit of twelve years. The University of Bergen therefore proposes a much more restricted system of targets than citizens will maintain. What are the points made by citizens in maintaining the 2002 rule? With respect to reporting, I think that the opposition is doing well when it believes that the Government's proposal will make it harder for Norway to achieve the target of 3 pst. by GNI for research by 2010 – a target that will require billions of increased efforts by the state and industry – and that this would almost weaken the employment rights of researchers. Such a claim is with respect to report a little plausibly. If we are to raise research efforts even more than what the Government is doing in the 2007 state budget, it requires heavy roofing both by the state and not least by the business community. We agree on that. But it does not in any way require us to take away from a group of workers the protection that most of us have under the Working Environment Act or the Civil Service Act. I believe that most people in the bottom line agree with the Ministry of Knowledge's summary of the hearings. The repeal of the 12-year target for researchers is not in any way dramatic for Norway, but it will contribute to increasing the safety of a group of workers to which Norway should take good care when creating and reaping good research results in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e152	There is, as many have said before me, largely agreement in this matter on most of the assessments the department has in relation to annual and temporary employment. However, in one of the two proposals there is disagreement in the Committee. This applies, as several have said, to the suspension of access to temporary employment in teaching and research positions for the purpose of participating in projects. The hearing opinions on this point have also gone in both directions. However, employee organisations have agreed to suspend access which is currently in place, while all universities, the University and Higher Education Councils and several higher education institutions have reached the opposite conclusion. The Christian People's Party considers, on the one hand, that access to temporary employment of up to 12 years duration at this level may be of concern, in particular in view of job protection and the other provisions relating to the addition of university and higher education. On the other hand, research projects have a clearly defined character. Research projects are often also linked to temporary external funding. In addition, several of the targeted research projects initiated by the Norwegian Research Council have a duration of five years. Among other things, as several have said before, the Centres for Excellent Research, where both the project and the funding period are limited in time. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there are compelling reasons not to suspend the possibility of annual targets, but that other changes need to be made to ensure job protection. We believe that this is the length of possible annual target assignment that needs to be changed in the first place. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to reduce the maximum length of annual target positions to a continuous period of up to 10 years. The starting point for such a reduction will be those research projects initiated by the Norwegian Research Council. These are limited research projects with external funding for a five-year period, with the possibility of extension for a further five years. By changing the length of the annual allocation, we will be able to ensure access to the annual targets for the shorter assignments. At the same time, job protection for the workers concerned will be strengthened by reducing the maximum time required for the use of annual targets in research projects. I bring this up with proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e167	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e170	Several have considered the balances between the considerations promoted by the employees' organisations and what has been heavily promoted by our heavy research institutions. When we in the Left are on the two proposals, the views that have come from both the University and Higher Education Council and from others in the sector have been absolutely crucial – perhaps especially the opinion of the University of Oslo. The opinion of the University of Oslo has a point that I do not seem to have made well enough in the debate. You just say that what's the majority's good intention, in practice, can be the exact opposite. It is said that with the budgetary frameworks in place, with the low predictability of research funding and, for that matter – I have to add to these budgets – in the running of institutions, there is a risk that project staff will be cancelled. So what was a temporaryity that could lead to employment can become a temporaryity that doesn't lead to anything. I think the whole storeroom and all the parties are going to take this reality description into account. I do not believe that the majority has the intention – that is, of course, I do not see it – and therefore I do not think that the majority should be so clear on what is the intention of the minority either. Our intention is that we want predictability, and we think predictability occurs with a good and safe funding of universities and colleges, that is, without cuts. We believe that this is happening through a systematic and tough construction of the Research Fund, which, under the Bondevik II government, went from DKK 10 billion to NOK 50 billion – it was again NOK 50 billion even after removing NOK 25 billion. We believe that further stepping up it will give you the predictability that will give you both recruitment positions, and that you will have the opportunity to go from one type of position to another. The debate may appear as if there are employee interests against research interests, but the University of Oslo opinion shows that reality is more complicated than that. It shows that you can suddenly get a formal right that in practice may not be worth that much. I believe everyone in this Chamber agrees that good rights should be in practice. And said in another way, if you're a capable and effective scientist, you should know that you're in a predictable situation. But then I don't think we're going to get away from it – even in this debate – that it's the framework behind it that's absolutely crucial. It is the framework of the research process – it will be a topic for another debate – but it is also the framework for the funding of universities and higher education institutions. These frameworks are in recent years based on net budgeting and – until we adopt something else – also on earnings-driven financing. This means that you have large amounts of money that you manage – freedom under responsibility. It is challenged by the budget submitted. We will also come back to that, but these are issues that have to do with the overall predictability of the institutions' activities. When the Left is primarily with the Right and the Advance Party on a proposal – and subsidiaryly with the Christian People's Party – it is also with the background of the heavy argument that has been put forward about securing the SFF, the Centres for Excellent Research, and the SFI, the Centers for Research-Based Innovation, where it is precisely that people are recruited for special research missions that they carry out – and continue. There's no reason to be a secret: if people do as well as you do when you're recruited to something that's excellent research, the probability of getting a job is significant. The major challenge at present is whether you get the job in Norway or elsewhere. Predictability in this respect is beyond the law. It is about the annual budgets, and it is about the willingness and ability to keep pace with Norwegian research efforts in a way that enables everyone in the sector to have confidence. One cannot escape the background to this matter – which is the long-term funding of universities and universities, which are long-term funding of researchers. And you can't help but notice that basic research is that people are curious about something that most people – including me – don't always understand what is. We are of the opinion that that curiosity is important to society. We know that just as Ashkeladden one day finds something that is worth something incredibly good, either so that we get wiser in our heads, or something so practical that it creates new jobs in the world around us. It is people who have a wonderful curiosity, which is the basis of research. When we see a fifteen-year-old in "White or Double" who has immersed himself in the black hole of the universe, we realize that there are special talents that we're going to take care of and fence well. It is these people who should be stimulated in the research effort. The left believes that the high predictability is ensured by stepping up research and by good funding for higher education. And we think what we're proposing in the minority proposals today is actually ensuring recruitment for what we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e192	The background to the draft law being discussed in Odelstinget today is two aspects. Firstly, the Soria Moria Government promised to reverse decisions taken on increased access to temporary employment. Second, in the context of the deliberation of the Law on Higher Education on 4 March 2005, the Storting ordered an assessment of the need for separate provisions of the Law on the Use of Year Objectives and other temporary employment. So today's draft law is a response to an order from Stortinget. The University and Higher Education Act of 2005 is common to both State and private institutions. In principle, the Employment Environment Act regulates the employment protection of the employees of the private institutions, while the Civil Service Act applies to employees of the State institutions. By maintaining the provisions on annual targets and temporary employment which are specific to the university and higher education sectors in the Higher Education Act, we ensure that both State and private institutions have the same legislation for annual and other temporary employment, where these specific rules are justified by the specific nature of the institution. The Law on Higher Education regulates the recruitment process, i.e.: rules on call, expert judgement and suspension. Regulations on the procedure and criteria for recruitment and attendance in teaching and research positions are laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in the field of higher education and higher education. Provision is also made for conditions of employment for post-doctoral posts, scholarships, scientific assistants and specialist candidates. By having the specific rules on annual targets and other temporary employment that are specific to this sector, together with other specific rules on employment, in one law, we ensure that users can find the specific rules applicable in the sector more easily. I am pleased that the Committee subscribes to the Department's assessment, that it is technically best and easiest to bring these provisions together in the Higher Education Act. As regards the assessment of the need for temporary employment and annual targets in the posts regulated by the Law on Higher Education, I am pleased that the Committee shares our assessment, that there are good and factual reasons for using annual or temporary employment in posts as head of departments and basic units, post-doctoral and educational positions, in ancillary posts and when applicants are not qualified for permanent employment. With regard to the proposal to strengthen job protection by abolishing the possibility of recruiting for years in education and research when participating in projects, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with our assessment. However, I see that the minority of the committee has a different assessment. This provision entered into the law in 2002 and created precarious employment for the employees concerned. In order to strengthen job protection, we have therefore proposed to repeal this provision. I do not see that it would be more difficult to achieve the national objective of increasing research efforts because researchers are getting better and safer working conditions, rather on the contrary. I believe that good and predictable working conditions will facilitate recruitment. In the recruitment context, it is not attractive to be half-lived without getting fixed-term employment. I see that the minority is concerned about the Centers for Excellent Research and Centers for Research-driven Innovation. Let me just mention that the law of higher education does not apply to all of these, it depends on which host institutions these centres have. The minority is also concerned about the need to initiate termination proceedings, but the minority itself has pointed out that for people with relevant research skills there is little reason to be concerned about access to jobs. A slightly higher level of employment security can contribute to increasing the mobility of the sector. In the hearing, several of the institutions have opted to repeal the provision, but many of the institutions have supported the proposal or have not commented on it. In contrast to the needs of workers for predictability and safety in their working conditions and the desire of some institutions for flexibility, we have given the most attention to the needs of employees for orderly employment. Finally, let me just mention that during the deliberation of the Law on Higher Education, a provision was made for the Executive Director to be employed on a yearly basis. However, no provision was made for the length of the target. We have used this opportunity to propose to regulate the length of the annual target period also for directors employed on annual targets. We have proposed periods of four to six years and that a maximum of twelve years can be held continuously. I am pleased that the Committee has also joined this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e222	In its brief term of office, the Minister of Knowledge has, on a whole four occasions, made a serious attack on the framework conditions for Norwegian research, first through the 2006 budget, later on in the review of the revised budget in 2006, which reduced nutrition research, further through the 2007 draft budget, and today through changes in the Law on Higher Education. My question to the Council of State is on the national research target, at 3 pst. of GDP in 2010, remains stable, and of how the Government intends to achieve the target – when there is ever so much uncertainty about the research framework and the Government repeatedly cuts in the appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e229	The budget we submitted to the Stortinget last autumn was the best research budget any government has ever adopted in this big deal. In our day, we spent money that was not used by the Research Council to strengthen the gift-enhancing system, because big gifts, not least to the University of Bergen, made this necessary. But there is money that will later be returned when these projects are on the rails. In the budget we have now presented, we are strengthening the Research Fund by DKK 10 billion, which means that during our period of government we have strengthened research by DKK 24 billion. In addition, it is approx. 900 million. kr in nominal increase in research activity in Norway. It is true that this is not as ambitious as the Storting has said, and as our government agrees. The research objectives of government and big business are firm. We work purposefully for this. This means that the research activity that will be in Norway until next year is significant — but it could be larger. It is difficult to achieve all the objectives of a government. So in this round, we've achieved so much in research in our short year. I am pleased with that. It's a satisfactory research budget, but it should have been better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e238	To the issue we are discussing today: One of the recordings from the Board of Universities and Higher Education is the following: ‘In order for our institutions to be able to assert themselves at a high level of research, they need flexibility to be able to periodically prioritise individual professional environments or set up specific projects. If the institutions have to employ these researchers on a permanent basis, it will be very difficult to be able to bet on sharp or specific areas of research and one will be forced to bet on the large working groups where there is a high predictability of both student growth and research funding.’ In other words, the University and Higher Education Council is concerned that flexibility ensures a commitment to smaller disciplines and research environments. I would like to have a comment from the Council of State on what it will be like now, given that access to temporary additions is now disappearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e248	We continue to place great emphasis on the opinions of the university and higher education sectors, and the University and Higher Education Councils have a high level of competence. That means that we're, of course, putting a lot of emphasis on their input to the ministry. On this issue, there is a balance between employee security requirements and the institution's desire for flexibility. It's a temporary conflict that it's hard to find a balanced solution, but that's what we think we've done here. We are doing a tightening in terms of temporary employment in projects. We don't think this is going to have any dramatic consequences at all. On the contrary, we believe that this could contribute to better recruitment, not least in view of the previous debate we had here in Stortinget linked to women's place in the academy. It is clear that safe employment conditions will help recruit women, instead of going without permanent employment for up to 12 years, for which the old law opened up. There is, of course, a balance and a balance between two cross-cutting considerations. In this cross-cutting balance, we have chosen the safety of employees rather than the desire of the University Council for flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e257	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a fair balance of the cross-cutting considerations in the matter. I think it's a neat way of dealing with both the majority and the minority. My question to the Council of State is whether he believes that it will create security and predictability for the employees we are talking about here, that there is a breach in the escalation of the research effort that is in the budget for next year. So I'm not talking about the budget itself. But it's an obligation to build up the research effort to 3 pst. of gross domestic product — and then a breach of this escalation. This happens at the same time as a cut in the appropriations for the university and higher education sectors, with the management systems they have. My question is whether the Council of State believes this will help to create predictability in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e264	The Storting and the Government have very ambitious objectives of stepping up research. 1 pst. the research effort shall be within the public budget, 2 pst. within the private research effort. We now see that research efforts have fallen, mainly because we have a very steep growth in GDP, and we also see less research in private business. It is clear that this is a significant challenge. Fortunately, more research is being done in the areas for which we have a responsibility, which are within the public budgets. At the same time, there is a very ambitious target, especially when we have such a steep growth in GDP as we have, that Norway has a very commodity-based economy, and that this commodity is priced very high at the moment. We have submitted a satisfactory research budget for next year. We get a significant escalation of the Research Fund, and we get a significant increase in activity. This activity isn't going to be as high as we should have seen. It will nevertheless mean good predictability, and there will be a significant real growth in our institutions. We should like to see it larger. I respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e271	The Council of State was in so far as the risk of redundancies, which some universities have announced, could be the option for long-term project placements. As far as I understood the Council of State, he believes that permanent employment would help to strengthen mobility in these research positions. But is it not the challenge, especially in the case of a little sparse research projects where researchers with a relatively narrow competence, how such jobs should contribute to increasing mobility in general in research projects? Unfortunately, with this proposal, the Government is likely to contribute to reducing mobility in research environments, since this legislative proposal makes it less flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e276	I cannot agree with that reasoning. We believe that we are facilitating a high degree of mobility through this proposal. If you have small and few professional environments, where you have people with very special skills, it will be easier to recruit them for projects if they are given the opportunity for permanent employment. If temporary employment is only possible — for up to 12 years — it is clear that families feel insecure. Let me be completely material: this is often about young people in the establishment phase who need security around their lives. And if you have such a special competence as the questioner here uses, it's clear that it won't be difficult to get a permanent job. It will also contribute to better mobility, because if you do not get one job, it is possible to get it elsewhere – if you have such a high level of skills and skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e283	No more words have been asked for a line. The speakers who are given the floor after that have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e288	It has been frequently argued that the amendment of the law will lead to a safer working day on a permanent basis, better qualified applicants will be recruited, and predictability will be increased. I am not quite convinced that this is the right thing to do, nor am I entirely sure of the Council's response in the change of line instead of how mobility can be ensured through fixed employment in areas of top-notch competence. I think it's right, as universities have warned, that the alternative to these project positions is the increased use of cancellation. In practice, this means that one will contribute to increasing the uncertainty of more people, because this will not be project positions and sharp projects that now have a natural end — and to what extent one has work later, will be independent of the type of project involved, and a little dependent on the budgetary spirit of the current government. I think you have had a little too one-sided focus on this to contribute to a safer and safer everyday life for the researchers – there is nothing to suggest that. The signals both from the UHR and from some institutions are actually the opposite. The representative Huitfeldt gave a little greeting to those who are in this kind of research position today. She said something like you couldn't recruit the best. I think it was a bad certificate from Stortinget's pulpit, targeting all the skilled researchers we have in the public higher education and university sector today. It's another moment that I think the debate has taken little account of. It is the financing uncertainty of research projects in general. It is well illustrated by the draft budget presented by this majority government. Research institutions are able to adapt, but the result is hardly an increase in the security of researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e302	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 10]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e310	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e318	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Amendment No. 2, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e351	The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 6 to 4 of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The annual target period for staff referred to in points (b), (e) and (j) of the first subparagraph may be four to six years. No person may be employed in annual measures under this provision for a continuous period of more than 12 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e369	There will then be no alternative between the recommendation from the Committee to the third paragraph of Section 6-4 and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘Articles 6 to 4 shall be replaced by the following:The annual period for staff referred to in point (e) of the first subparagraph shall be five years. No person may be employed for annual periods following this provision for a continuous period of more than 10 years. The third and fourth subparagraphs shall become the fourth and fifth subparagraphs.» The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have advised that they will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e405	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e415	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-10-lower.ana.ud89e470	Thus, the matters on today's map are handled. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
