ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e26	The representatives Anne Margrethe Larsen, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Olav Gunnar Ballo and Hans Olav Syversen have submitted applications for leave from 17 January to 19 January, all to participate in study visits to Germany with the theme of security strategy and the fight against terrorism. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the West-Agder County, Knud Edmund Berthelsen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting at the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Astrid BekkenesFor Buskerud County: Hilde GroenhovdFor the Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor Oslo: Aud Kvalbein2. Astrid Bekkenes is elected to the Lagtinget for the time she meets Anne Margrethe Larsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e69	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e72	On behalf of the representative Ulf Leirstein and myself, I am delighted to propose the lifting of import quotas for alcohol and tobacco.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e77	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e91	A very large proportion of the fish stocks used by Norwegian fishermen and Norwegian fishing industry are stocks that we share with other countries. Our fisheries agreements are therefore a support bar in our fisheries management. Fisheries cooperation has clear foreign policy dimensions, especially in the northern regions, where we have experienced this autumn that both foreign trawlers and their national authorities are challenging the Norwegian administration regime, for example in the Svalbard fishing protection zone. In this respect, I would like to commend the Coast Guard for firm and sensible action in situations that, by unnecessary use of power, could have actually developed into relatively kinky fishing conflicts. I note that with the support of the EU, the Spanish fisheries authorities dispute the Norwegian authorities’ right to penalise foreign fishing vessels engaged in illegal fishing in Norwegian waters. As I understand it, the Spaniards believe that it is the Spanish authorities who are going to punish Spanish fishermen who are fishing illegally in the waters of another nation. It is with respect to notify an interesting new legal principle. Norwegian authorities should also have any interest in having such a principle tested by international law. Because if the Spaniards were to be supported against suspicion, it would rock through our entire administration regime and create a new legal state in this area. There can be no doubt, and should not, about the Norwegian authorities’ sovereigns’ right to control and enforce their own and agreed fishing rights in Norwegian waters, including the Svalbard zone. In this area, we obviously have a job to do, as we see it, as a nation, we are dependent on understanding and respect for Norwegian resource management, both at authorities and at professionals in other countries. It should be an important element of our future fisheries agreements with other countries and our participation in international fisheries organisations. Following these preliminary considerations, I refer to the position of the Food and Agriculture Committee on the Government’s announcement of the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with other countries for 2005 and to fishing under the agreements in 2003 and 2004. The attitude is unanimous, with an additional comment from the Progress Party, which I believe they themselves will make clear. However, a unanimous committee position does not mean that our fisheries cooperation with other countries is or has been problem-free. It has obviously not been easy to reach agreement in all areas. For species such as colloidal and Norwegian springing herring, it has simply not been possible to reach agreement in 2005. Therefore, in certain areas of population, the catchment of fish has been larger than the opinion of the researchers. As a result, these stocks are easily overtaxed. Unless agreement is reached on a lower exit in the coming years, future fishing, employment and coastal settlements could be affected. Supervision and resource control are an important part of the contract work. There is reason to rejoice that control activities are now increasing and that Norwegian fisheries cooperation with Russia is constantly developing, not least on the control side. Apart from the fact that this work, which is self-confidential, can also provide a positive estimate for other areas, it would be invaluable for the resource management in the north if we could have a common, equivalent control regime in the north as far as possible. The Economic and Social Committee takes one important political initiative in its committee position. We ask that the so-called ghost fishing become the theme of fishing cooperation between Norway and other nations, and that Norwegian fisheries authorities take the initiative in an international agreement to clean up lost fishing gear. Yarn that is lost or dumped and that remains in the sea is primarily a problem at relatively large depths, i.e. depths greater than 400 metres. Yarns put on shallower water grow to quite quickly and therefore stop fishing. Lost fishing gear is a major environmental problem in both international and national waters. At the same time, there is an obstacle to fishing and some of the reasons why Norwegian fishermen do not take out the fishing quotas we have under the agreements that Norway has with other countries. It is primarily fish for bottom fish such as blue whiting, long and bream which are prevented by lost yarn. Norway is the only country in the world that operates systematic yarn cleaning. We expect fishermen to lose somewhere between 500 and 1000 yarns a year in Norwegian waters, and about 700 yarns are collected annually through the cleaning work. I also understand that both Scots and Irish have now started a similar cleanup in their waters. Norway has been and should, in my opinion, be a driving force in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e119	The next speaker is Øyvind Korsberg, and then the state councillor Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e122	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter, and then I would just like to make a few brief comments on the comments made by the Progress Party on the matter. During the negotiations last autumn, i.e. in 2005, on the 2006 cod quota, there were some speculations that the reduction in the quota was related to the overfishing in the Barents Sea. Overfishing is a major problem, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, and Terje Vassdal, who works at Norway's fishing high school, has estimated that overfishing in financial terms amounts to approx. DKr 1.7 billion. So it's clear that there's a significant problem that the government has to deal with in order to get under control, so that you don't get involved and destroy the resource base you're supposed to be involved in and negotiate, and thus hit your legs under the fishing industry. I expect the government to work actively on this, so that overfishing goes down in the coming years, and to give the Coast Guard the necessary appropriations, so that we can have effective control in these areas. Otherwise, during the negotiations for 2006, we recorded that there would be a sharp increase in the extraction of royal crabs, where Russia will receive 1.6 million. individuals more from 2005 to 2006 and Norway only receives 20 000 individuals in increase. I think that is somewhat surprising, and I expect, since we have written it in a note, that the Minister for Fisheries will also say a few words in his statement about the cause of this division between Russia and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e131	Then the President gives the word to Petter Løvik, who signed up for the Council of State. But in order for the Council of State to be able to answer any questions that Petter Løvik had to ask, get, with the blessing of the Council of State, Petter Løvik the word first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e134	Thank you for that, President! I would also like to thank the case spokesperson for a very thorough and good review of the case. Here, there is a big deal about most of it, both in terms of the contracts that are actually indebted, and in terms of control and greater control in these areas. What I would like to ask the State Council to comment on in its article is a couple of things that the case spokesperson was about. It shall apply, inter alia: to get a confirmation of what has been said about the relationship between the Spanish and Norwegian authorities when it concerns the administration and to be able to punish those who break what we think is the right regulation in the north. In particular, I want the Minister of Fisheries to think a little bit about how she looks at the situation in the Svalbard zone, as it is sometimes somewhat controversial from an international point of view as to what Norwegian dishes are. Is there something happening on that page? What will the Council of State do, and what will be done to ensure Norwegian law in this very important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e143	I would like to begin by stressing that sustainable resource management will be a central objective of the Government in the fisheries negotiations we conduct with other countries each year. I've read the Committee's configuration, Innst. S. No 72, with interest and listening to the comments here, and I must say that the Committee's comments show that there is a broad consensus on the objectives we should have in these negotiations, and what are our challenges. The remarks seem to be largely in line with what the government and I have. I notice that the Committee refers to the events in the Barents Sea last autumn and points out how important it is for Norway to have agreements regulating fishing in the waters we share with other countries, and there is particular concern about illegal fishing. This is a concern that I fully share. In the negotiations with Russia last autumn, therefore, the illegal withdrawal of cod in the Barents Sea was the central theme, and Norway and Russia agreed on further measures to address the problem. In order to improve control of the withdrawal of fish from the Barents Sea, the Parties agreed to establish a new sub-committee consisting of representatives of the control bodies of both countries, representatives of police and prosecution authorities and customs and tax authorities. The selection shall contribute to a better follow-up to cases where fishing beyond allocated quotas is suspected, the preparation of documentation requirements for prosecution and coordination of investigations. The Parties also agreed to extend the system of exchange of information on fisheries and to extend cooperation with third-country authorities in order to better detect landings of unregistered catches. It is my hope that this will help us to overcome the illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. As far as cooperation with Spain is concerned, I have been invited to Spain by the Spanish Minister for Fisheries and hope that this meeting will take place in a short time. Otherwise, the Government actively pursues the Norwegian positions in relation to the fishing protection zone around Svalbard. The Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission has set a total quota for Norwegian Arctic cod for 2006 of 471 000 tonnes, which corresponds to the adopted tax strategy. The strategy aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks and the stability of the catchment area. Based on the detection of landings of unregistered Norwegian Arctic cod in EU countries, control was also a central theme in the negotiations with the EU on a 2006 fisheries agreement. I am pleased that we have achieved the acceptance that this illegal fishing is unacceptable, and that the parties agree to work to establish a robust regime for port state control. In addition, the Parties shall strengthen cooperation on the control of whitefish landings around the North Sea and continue the focus on the control of pelagic landings. In the bilateral fisheries agreement with the EU, we also have long-term management plans for herring, sieving, hay and cod in the North Sea. The aim is to ensure sound management and to contribute to a stable framework for industry. The situation of cod in the North Sea is still difficult and the total quota has been very low in recent years. The quota for this stock has been further reduced in 2006 to 23 205 tonnes, which is the lowest quota ever. The Committee points to the problem of ghost fishing and asks for this to be a theme for fisheries cooperation with other nations. This has been addressed with the EU for several years. It is very positive that last year Scotland and Ireland first allocated funds for a clean-up project. I would also like to mention that Norway and the EU agree in the 2006 fisheries agreement that there is a need to introduce regulatory measures and that annual measures are to be taken after lost yarns. Norway has also been a propellant of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission to develop rules for gillnet fishing in international waters. I note that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party are amazed at the low Norwegian total withdrawal of royal crabs for 2006. In this context, I would point out that the recommendations of the research team were a Norwegian quota of 163,000 individuals for 2006 and that the adopted Norwegian quota is much higher. With an allowance of 300,000 individuals, we have significantly increased the tax rate beyond the 20 pst. which we originally agreed with Russia under the governance strategy. I still understand that the question is being asked, and we will come back to this question in connection with the government going through the entire king-crab policy. The Committee also refers to the international administration of colloidal and Norwegian springing herring. As indicated in the Storing Communication, these issues have been the subject of significant challenges over several years. We have not yet succeeded in reaching a five-party agreement on the management of Norwegian spring herring herring, but Norway and the EU have concluded a bilateral fisheries agreement for Norwegian spring herring herring for 2006. With regard to coal management, we have had long and hard coastal State negotiations since 2000, which were concluded on 16 December 2005 by agreement between the EU, Faroe Islands, Iceland and Norway on an agreement covering both the distribution and management of this stock. The agreement sets out a long-term management strategy which implies an annual reduction of fishing until the management targets are met. As regards mackerel, the Committee points out that Russia and Iceland have reservations about the regulation of the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission and that it is important to accept this regulation in international waters. I fully agree and can inform you that during the autumn meeting of the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, the coastal states and Russia were negotiating for a solution in which Russia was transferred 4 600 tonnes from the share of the coastal states for 2006. At the same time, it was agreed that this transfer would be phased out gradually and not later than 2010. Because after 2010, Russia has committed itself to only demanding its traditional percentage, I consider this to be a good solution for Norway. I am very pleased that we have made some further progress in ensuring the sustainable management of shared fish stocks. It is also important to state that, for the vast majority of North-East Atlantic populations, we have administrative regimes in place and good and constructive administrative cooperation with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e180	In my post, I asked the Council of State what was going on with Svalbardsona. It's a zone of very great value, and there's a very significant outrage in the Norwegian fisheries to get a clarification and a little bit more long-term agreements in that area. What the council answered me that question was that Norway would actively follow the positions, as I understand it. Is it possible for the Council of State to deepen it a little bit?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e185	We keep the Norwegian view on this matter. Questions have been asked in the opinion whether Norway should not take this question to The Hague. However, as long as Norway is safe from the positions we have in the fisheries protection zone, it is not a current issue now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e190	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e194	There has been an interesting debate on this matter. It's a matter that usually doesn't get the very big attention, but it actually deserves a lot of attention. I think the case rapporteur illustrated this in an excellent way by stating that Norwegian fisheries agreements with other countries also have a large ‘iceped’ of foreign policy in themselves. There is no other sector in which we have had such an ‘icedd’ more visible from Norway than from the fisheries sector in the last year. Of course, we're 100 pst. Depending on the conclusion of agreements with other countries, and on which the case rapporteur was correctly involved, we share populations that are often born in Norway, growing up in another country, but which swim back and on the way back pass through the food barrels of different nations. We have quite a lot of negative experience in having established what is the price of not having international agreements in place. In fact, a bad deal is far to be preferred to no deal. This is illustrated in the suspension also with regard to this five-party agreement, and it is a pity that Norway does not achieve what I believe in everyone's view is the most legitimate Norwegian requirement. At the same time, there is reason to stress that Norway should have authority in negotiations with other countries, we need to have our living optimally. It's on fisheyes. This is about illegality in fisheries, as we also have examples from the Norwegian side. All Norwegian abuse, all over-the-counter and the activity on the wrong side of the law, weakens our authority in negotiations with other countries. So I don't think we have any other choice than that in this pressure on a resource situation, which has been and is threatened in several areas, we have to have a leading commodity attitude. This means that the advice of the researchers usually has to go ahead of all other considerations. I think we have succeeded on the Norwegian side in getting rid of overcapacity, which is the biggest threat both to the population and to the economy. The rapporteur and others in the debate today pointed out that we are being threatened in the Norwegian exercise of authority in Norwegian fishing zones. This is a very big problem, and it has to be resolved internationally and through agreements. What, in my opinion, receives little attention, and it is perhaps natural that it does, goes on the other side of Norwegian fisheries policy, namely the market and the sale of what we are able to bring on land in Norway. It is also an essential part of Norwegian fisheries policy. I'll come back to that. I would like to make it clear that with Europe's perhaps largest criminal activity in the Barents Sea – we hear numbers of illegal withdrawals, often referred from the Russian side, of perhaps 100,000 to 200,000 tonnes of cod with a first-hand value of billions of dollars – there is no doubt that we have a huge environmental crime and also a huge economic crime in our neighbourhood. We have to deal with this and do something actively with it, and I have the impression that this is being taken seriously. But you world, it's a long, long way to go. If we do not succeed in this, we are talking about not only the Norwegian fisheries sector, but also the fisheries sectors of other countries. Finally, it is only to conclude that 2005 was a very good year for the Norwegian fishing industry. One likes to present it as the exact opposite, but there was a historical export record that passed NOK 31.3 billion, an increase of NOK 3.7 billion. We see that Norwegian salmon industry has again taken a jaf of the market. The negative side is that we're very, very alone. We are often alone when we have to conclude fisheries agreements with other countries. Even if we succeed at times, we stand alone. We see that when we are facing more and more boycott threats in the market – not only with regard to the American market, we have seen it as salmon in terms of EU country activity, and we have seen it in terms of the disappearance of the Russian market, which is the largest individual country receiving Norwegian fish – it also has its price in this context to stand very alone in negotiations. We have no alliance in our back that can help us when there is a strong need for it. There is also something to think about in the further debate on fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-12.ana.ud152e249	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
