ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e39	Representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Gjermund Hagesetter, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn, Laila Davøy, Anna Ljunggren, Olemic Thommessen, Solveig Horne, Torfinn Opheim, Børge Brende, Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen and Line Henriette Holten Heimdal, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the province of Hedmark, Tone Merete Sønderud. For Oslo: Khalid Mahmood. For the Rogaland State: Gjertrud Kjellesvik. For Telemark County: Magnhild Holmberg. For Eastfold County: Per Egil Evensen. A number of permit applications are available: by the Government Delegation to the 115th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Finn Martin Vallersnes. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Ingrid Heggø, Espen Johnsen and Finn Martin Vallersnes from the Socialist Left Party Group on health leave for the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik from 18 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Synnøve Branden Klemetrud. For the state of Rogaland, Siri A. Meling. For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Cecilie Thaule Løvlid. For South Tribute County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik.3. Synnove Brenden Klemetrud and Siri A. Meling are elected to Lagging for the time they meet the representatives Espen Johnsen and Finn Martin Vallersnes respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e147	Synnove Fire Klemetrud, Siri A. Meling, Cecilie Thaule Løvlid and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e153	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e165	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e168	I have the honour to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of Bjørg Tørresdal and myself to reconsider the approval of the Norwegian school in Mopti, Mali, and to allow exceptions in the law on high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e173	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e177	On behalf of the big business representatives Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Gunnar Gundersen, Petter Løvik, Torbjørn Hansen and myself, I would like to propose an overall strategy to ensure the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e182	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e185	I would like to propose, on behalf of the big business representatives Erna Solberg, Petter Løvik, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, that an independent competition topic be established for the appeal of competition cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e190	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e210	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Kristin Halvorsen Council of State Odd Roger Enoksen Council of State Day Terje Andersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e229	I would like to address the theme of Norwegian use of natural gas. Recently we saw Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister for Oil and Energy Enoxen in England. They rejoiced that the English were going to import even more Norwegian gas, and another new gas pipeline was opened to England. This gas from the Worm Lange field outside of Mora and Romesdal is to be used in English households to cook and to warm up the houses. Turning us home to Norway, on the other hand, the exact same use of gas will now be subject to charging. The Government will introduce in the budget submitted a natural gas tax to reduce the use of Norwegian gas in Norway. It should therefore not be as profitable and desirable to heat houses and homes in Norway with Norwegian gas. This is pointless in a period when we are at risk of a power crisis, where power prices are increasing. The electricity prices are now approx. twice as high as they were in the corresponding period last year. This shows that the situation in the power market is not good. In several regions, energy companies have invested heavily in the distribution of natural gas, and there has been a desire from the Storting to put this gas into use. So what is now happening when natural gas is being taxed is being strangled against the goals and intentions that the Storting has been communicating for many years, and the many households that have invested in natural gas will feel very weakened by the Government. The Minister of Energy, after all, used a lot of his intervention at the Statnett Winter Conference to talk about the danger of a power crisis in Norway. One has to ask: will charging for natural gas contribute to reducing the risk of a power crisis? Will it help to reduce the high electricity prices, or will the consequence be the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e242	I assume it was until the signed question was asked. It is quite clear that it is necessary to have both a short-term and a long-term energy policy development strategy. The government has a strong focus on renewable energy investment. It'll be our lead. In addition, the Government has now taken important steps to ensure a new production in the West, including: through what we do at Mongstad, where we have entered into an agreement with Statoil on the cleaning of CO2 from the thermal power plant. We're working on other projects at Kårstø, and we're also working to solve the situation in Middle Norway. In the case of a levy on gas for heating in households and commercial buildings, it is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But anyway, this is part of the government's policy of investing in and stimulating renewable energy, producing bioenergy and producing renewable energy to a greater extent than we would otherwise have. So it's the government's clear strategy to increase the use of domestic gas for industrial purposes. That is why we are also working on several projects in that direction, and we believe that what we have done in relation to households makes sense. It will stimulate the use of renewable energy and it will not prevent the use of natural gas in Norway for industrial purposes, as the Government has a clear ambition to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e256	I thank you for your answer. I am not very calm in relation to the amount of natural gas requested by the Stortinget, because it would include both households, businesses and industry. So we see here that the government thinks it's okay for English households to use natural gas, but it doesn't want Norwegian households to use it. It is the same lack of logic that we have seen in the use of gas for power generation, where the government has spent a year arguing until a Mongstad decision – which is in line with what the Progress Party has proposed many times, so right there the government is to be praised. But the government is building all two gas power plants in Germany without any requirement for CO2 clean-up. So here has one standard for that gas that one exports, and one completely different standard for that gas that one uses in Norway. Given the risk of a power crisis, would it not be a better strategy on the part of the Government that, in the short term, a non-taxable natural gas, so that several households used it to reduce dependence on electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e268	Firstly, the use of natural gas will still be profitable. Secondly, the government has had a very effective handling of the Mongstad case. It is true that it has been being treated in underlying establishments for a certain number of months. It has been a completely necessary treatment. The government has had a very effective and good handling of the Mongstad case. When it comes to the relationship with England, the representative should remember that changing the focus from producing almost 100 pst. of its energy from renewable sources, such as hydropower, as we do in Norway, to use fossil fuels, is a matter that should be the subject of a major political debate, as we have had in Norway. In England and in most other countries, the opposite is true, from coal to gas, which is a more environmentally friendly alternative than most alternatives in these countries. Norway has a high potential for renewable energy, both in terms of hydropower, wind and bioenergy. Therefore, the main track of the Government continues to focus on renewable energy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e277	It becomes follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e280	There is no doubt that gas use can significantly relieve electricity consumption in Norway. Power consumption has increased by 20 TWh in the last 15 years, while production has only increased by about one fifth of it, i.e. approximately. 4 TWh. We know that Norwegian water storage now – compared to normal – lacks approx. 20 TWh at that filling level, and even in a normal year we lack 5-7 TWh in the Norwegian water reservoirs. If we don't get rainfall beyond normal, we'll be able to lack 25 TWh in Norway when we meet in the winter. In the case of back-up measures, it has been outlined by the Government that mobile gas power plants should be a sort of emergency solution. Information has now become available that access to mobile gas plants on the world market is difficult. Why is it – when we are faced with a dramatic situation – that the Government has not been out in the past and has just secured access to these mobile gas power plants that are so vital to ensure Norwegian security of supply and a reasonable energy balance for the winter? [[The President clubs.]] Is it really true that we can have a power crisis in Norway just because the government has not followed up and provided options and agreements to hire mobile gas plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e289	The President would like to stress that speaking time has to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e293	The question has been addressed. The representative that Andersen is now addressing is a rather big and demanding question to answer within a frame of up to 1 minute. It is true that we are in a situation where we have low magazine filling, and where we can get a demanding supply situation for the winter. In fact, this has improved somewhat lately by allowing us to re-import power from Sweden, and that Statnett has also been able to find a solution to the difficult situation of the transmission link between Norway and Denmark. Statnet has worked intensively over several months to find good solutions, and to have reserves in case we get a demanding situation. Statnet has succeeded in getting the transfer link between Norway and Denmark in place earlier than was initially thought. As regards access to back-up power, it is correct, as the representative Andersen says, that Statnet has not succeeded in concluding leases for mobile gas power plants. Of course you can regret that, but Statnett has also worked on this issue over a relatively long time, and there has been little access to this kind of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e300	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e303	First, I have to be allowed to say that it is mostly in words that the Minister of Oil and Energy is concerned with renewable energy. He promised Stortinget a system at least as good as what the green certificates were. The system that was put on the table is only half as good. It ends with many renewable energy projects not being implemented in Norway. It's been decided by all the colleges. So it's gas. We're up in a very demanding power situation. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. What's happening in Norway today is that we're importing a lot of coal from Europe, which again emits a lot of CO2. So it's an environmentally good initiative at 99 pst. of the gas from Norway will continue to be sent abroad, and that we will not use it in Norwegian households as well? Is it not the case that, for the Government too, it would have been better to have now been able to use natural gas in Norwegian households instead of continuing to import electricity based on coal power from Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e313	I record that the representative Burnde has not yet completed the care processing after it was not possible to get a result with Sweden on the green certificates. It's going to be Børge Burnde's case. The government is moving on. We have put forward a historical commitment to renewable energy that no government until now has been able to provide. As regards the use of gas in Norway, the Government will stimulate the use of gas also in Norway. It will also be possible for households today — to a limited extent, because there are few geographical areas where there is infrastructure and the possibility of using gas in the household. This is likely to be the case in Norway for many years to come — not least because of the housing pattern we have. Therefore, it is even more reasonable than to bet on gas, to bet on renewable energy. That's the government's lead. We want to invest heavily in the development of district heating infrastructure, so that we can use the large bioenergy resources we have. We will bet on wind power, and we will bet on hydropower – that is, a completely different bet than what the government Børge Brende was representative of, was able to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e320	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e323	It is positive that the government comes up with a proposal on green taxes. That is right, and it is important in relation to sustainable development. Norway is a clean energy nation. We use a lot of water. The feet and the water we've been given, we use in a good way. There are some dilemmas here. My simple question to the Council of State becomes this: Does the Council of State agree that it is a right idea, and perhaps a good idea, to stimulate the use of natural gas where it can replace oil firing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e330	That's absolutely right. Encouraging the use of gas instead of oil or products that contaminate more than gas will be an environmentally positive step. I believe the representative Holten Hemdal and I agree that the very best option is to stimulate the use of renewable energy. Therefore, the Government will have a bucket of oil boilers for a transition – not from oil to gas, but from oil to bioenergy. Indeed, it relates the use of renewable energy to support schemes on this wreckage scheme. For this reason, the Government will now make proposals to the Stortinget to increase the 46-billion-dollar framework we proposed. kr, to stimulate the use of renewable energy in the household, by 25 million. kr, so that we can expand the good support system, which has proved to be more popular than we had foreseen. So yes, it makes sense in some cases to use gas, but the most sensible option is to use renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e335	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e338	I would like to say that the Government has the support of someone in the opposition, at least in terms of a more consistent green tax regime to stimulate a transition to more environmentally friendly forms of energy – from oil to gas, which is good, but it is definitely most attractive to go all the way to renewable energy sources. I also think it is important to follow up — perhaps with even greater power than the government has done in the budget — and see how one with other instruments than taxes can also stimulate this development. This applies not least in nitrogen oxides, where we have no interest in praising the small fleet, but will ensure that it renews and continues to win the competition with the trucks. At the Council of State of Enoxens, there are very many preliminary issues concerning renewable energy sources, small-scale power plants, etc., and my question is this: Could it not be an idea to continue dealing with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e345	It is quite interesting to see that, during the first main question in today's Question Time, what should be an alternative to this government is already crumbling away, quite emphatically – on such a central issue as energy policy. In the case of small power concession treatment, it is true that there are a large number of applications on the NVE table, 250 applications. Proposals have been made in this room to leave a larger part of them to the municipalities. The municipalities already have the opportunity under the Planning and Building Act to deal with this type of application. Over the period 2001–2005, it was addressed approximately. 300 applications in municipalities under the Planning and Building Act. Where this type of installation has environmental consequences in some way, applications shall be dealt with by the overall authority, i.e.: NVE, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy are the appeals for these applications. We have five years of treatment on applications in the NVE, but not five years of treatment on each application. This has to be done in a proper way. We use the resources we can, and we try to get these applications out of here as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e358	In the financial statements, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said: ‘We are lucky in Norway. We have room for action. We can choose what we think is most important – and bet on it." I assume that the budget we have received follows up what the Minister of Finance said in the financial speech, that what seems to be the most important one has been chosen, and that what seems to be the most important one has been invested – so the budget presented by this government is extremely clear. Then it's interesting to ask yourself the question: in which areas has it been thought that it's not important to bet? The budget has been perceived as the acidiest thing that this government is going to comply with what it says. What is clear is that it is not being invested in the future. Norway's ability to preserve the well-being of the future society is not at stake. We live in a world where one and a half billion more workers have entered the world economy in the last 15 years. We live in a world where China and India have gained more highly educated engineers and people in real science than the EU – Europe as a whole, in fact – and the United States together, in a world where maintaining the Norwegian welfare community is primarily about investing in research, investing in development and investing in improving. The alternative is to invest in poorer working environments and lower wages in the future. In this situation, the Government chooses not to invest in research. Then I hear a minister of knowledge, who should actually stop calling himself a minister of knowledge, who is now saying that this is a piece of rest. Then my question is to the Minister of Finance: Is it that the government's philosophy of training is to ask a skater who lies two rounds after, to take a break – because that's the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e370	Firstly, the representative Erna Solberg's description of the research effort is completely wrong. It's probably true that there's a smaller increase than many people in the research community had hoped for, but there's a plus in the budget in terms of research efforts, and there's 10 billion new dollars set aside for the Research Fund in this state budget. This, of course, is related to the fact that we have seen important priorities for knowledge and education as a whole. This budget is a massive effort in terms of knowledge, and in particular the pediatric coverage that is now in place: SEK 3.2 billion more for kindergartens. I saw that a couple of right-wing representatives under the finance sat and laughed at it. If the Right's knowledge of how important it is to bet on the younger ones is so small, I would recommend Erna Solberg to take a little round with his own about it. The second is that we have a knowledge promise in primary school, to which the previous government gave up, and which is followed up in this state budget by NOK 1.5 billion. It's an important and significant investment. Then we have a big challenge in higher education. There our government introduces a free learning system. It starts next year. We step it up over three years and have the entire run in place within this three-year period. It is incredibly important, because one of the important challenges in Competence Norway is that we have a significant decline in vocational training. It can't just be solved with free learning, but that means we have to have extra focus there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e381	I record that the Minister of Finance is neither talking about higher education nor about research in his answer. This is because I fully agree that the content of kindergartens is important. In fact, the right has always thought that kindergartens should be primarily a pedagogical offer and not a supervisory offer. We also agree that it was actually we who launched the Knowledge Lift. We want a more ambitious level of knowledge. But what's happening around us is now going so fast that it doesn't help to have a good kindergarten for the kids going out to work in 20 years' time, if we don't at the same time take care of work, that we have productions and businesses that have the ability to use their skills, because it disappears if you're just willing to bet on the lower levels of education. It is true that the head of the Swedish Research Association said it was a ‘black day for research’ on the day the budget was presented. It's also true that when you moved in at 20 million. kr here in Stortinget a few years ago, SV’s representative Rolf Rikvam said it was a ‘crusade against public education’. Now you've cut $300 million. kr. What kind of warfare is it against public education?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e386	First of all, it's not cut in research. It's less than the Research Association had hoped for, but there's a significant investment in research — at the top of a significant investment in previous years and last year. So that's a completely wrong picture. Secondly, I completely disagree with the representative Erna Solberg that it will not help us in 20 years if we now invest in kindergartens and primary schools. It'll help us in 20 years! It's one of the most important investments we can make in a society, especially because we can raise our skills here. We know that breaking read code and math code is important. Then I realize that there's a real decline in the allocations to colleges and universities with 1 pst. This is a sector that has NOK 7 billion on book, which it transfers to next year's budget. Everything is not a means that can be used freely. But that means that this is a sector that has received significant increases over many years, so that we can withstand a real downturn of 1 pst. But we have not intended that universities and universities should be cut-off objects for this government's future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e395	There will be follow-up questions – first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e398	During the presentation of the budget last Friday, the Minister of Finance said that this government would spend the large amount of money on the major tasks. Instead, this government once again shows that they're doing the big cuts on the big ones. At Soria Moria, there were festivities formulated by this government, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Government will strengthen the allocation of universities and higher education institutions.’ Now, a year later, this government is making a dramatic cut of almost 300 million. kr to exactly the same universities and colleges. On 6 December 2004, the SV’s representative on the Education Committee, Rolf Rikvam, said that it would cut 20 million. kr in the budgets of the higher education institutions was a ‘crusade against public education’. What will the Minister of Finance signify a cut of nearly 300 million? kr that, when she knows very well that the university and higher education sectors do not have a liquidity reserve of SEK 7 billion for free use?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e412	I think it's a pleasure to hear it -- what to say -- the transformation that's going on among the Right People. Remember what kind of cuts the previous government imposed on Kommune-Norway to perform on both the one and the other and the third and the fourth areas. And it wasn't about 1 pst. It was about 5 pst. and 10 pst. And now, right-handers are able to make it a real downfall of 1 pst. is a dramatic, irreparable cut. That's not true. It's a real drop of 1 pst. It's not a dramatic cut in higher education and universities. It is not a – what to say – priority task for future governments to ensure that the education sector has less funding, but this is to live with for higher education and universities, especially because it is a sector that has had significant increases. It doesn't go beyond study places. It is a sector that can transfer DKK 7 billion from this year to next year – not for free exploitation, but it says something about it having had quite good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e417	Anders Anundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e420	It is an advantage if the Council of State answers the questions asked from this pulpit, and I hope she does so now. The Soria Moria Declaration sets out the following: «The government will increase the research effort to 3 pst. of GDP by 2010.» The draft budget is not a budget for achieving the 3 p.m. target. The government does not follow up its own emphasis on knowledge as our main competitive advantage. The R & D share is now down to 1.51 pst. of GDP, and although the challenge has increased, the political follow-up has become weaker. It's a real decline for universities, colleges and basic research. There is a strong tightening of the SkattenFUNN scheme, no stepping up of industrial research, no increase in research recruitment, zero growth of institutes and too little increase in the Research and Innovation Fund. It's not just the Progress Party that says this. It's Abelia, v/Paul Chaffey, it's the Academics, the Research Association, the Main Organisation of Commerce and Service Industries, NATO, NITO, NTNU, NHO, Norwegian Student Union and Norwegian industry – to name a few. And how can the reality of all of these and many more be so different from the reality of this council?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e434	Let me just repeat once again that it's not a cut in the research appropriations in this budget, it's an increase. In addition, there is an increase in the research fund of DKK 10 billion. I understand that many of those to whom the representative Anundsen refers are disappointed that there is no significant increase in research – but it is a sector that has gained a lot in the years that have been. We have a lot of hard work in other areas of this budget, which has gone ahead with a greater increase in research this time. Everybody can see that. A massive effort to get full child-care coverage during 2007 – SEK 3.2 billion – is a high priority. A railway budget to which the Stortinget has not seen its husband for 25 years, and a road budget that is the most offensive of 15 years, is a clear priority. We have assessed that research can withstand waiting, but there is no indication that this government will deprioritize that sector in the future – on the contrary!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e439	‘The future will reward the countries that are betting on people, who are betting on knowledge and who are betting on new ideas’ Stoltenberg said in the throne – before cut at 273 million. DKK for the higher education and university sectors, 10 pst. tightening up the tax FUNN scheme and cutting the appropriations for private higher education. The government wants to be measured against what it does. We hear what it says it does, but remember, the Norwegian people also see what it actually does. On the future's lack of reward for lack of investment in knowledge and new ideas, I think the future will say that the government's reason for this cut was Bondevik's large allocation to the sector. It was because of the liberal and good economy that they cut off the investment in research. This is a strong negative signal in an upturn budget. Is it just the government of Stoltenberg that is not concerned about the bet and how we will in the future be rewarded for how we are betting on people, knowledge and new ideas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e452	Firstly, it is far too easy to take one part of the education cycle separately when the budget as such has a significant focus on knowledge. All the way, we know that primary and secondary education is also a very important part of the entire education cycle. We know that many at universities and universities report back and report that there is too much knowledge in Norwegian as well as math among new students. That's why it's so important that we see this race together, and that's why it's so important that we make sure that we really invest in the first few years of children's lives. We're going to get that many times again later. I understand that the university and university sectors are disappointed with a real cut of 1 pst. But this is a sector that has DKK 20 billion, and they don't get cut in the number of study places, so it's completely beyond all proportions to describe this as a poor education budget – that's the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e459	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e462	I feel that the Minister of Finance follows in his predecessor's footsteps in the spontaneous question hour, namely the Prime Minister. She comes with something that I see as approximate, so I want to ask the finance minister after the big meeting to provide evidence that it was cut to 5-10 p.m.. in the municipal budgets. So I go back to what this question is about. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if she feels distressed that the Government has received a Minister of Knowledge – and getting the Minister of Knowledge was a struggle for SV – which uses the word ‘restorative’ about the efforts in higher education and research – and I believe that Minister of Finance Halvorsen will in fact agree. Then there are two value chains for the future here. That's the value chain that makes us secure our democracy: we have good research, and it's the value chain that creates nourishment. What the government is doing is almost losing sight of the fact that it is stepping up to 3 p.m., and then tightening up the tax FUNN scheme, the system to ensure business. Does the Minister of Finance think that this is something to be proud of when it comes to the promises of SV and the Government towards research and business?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e473	I have not said that the municipal sector as a whole received 5-10 pst. in cut, but I have said that the municipalities in many areas have had to cut individual sectors, and I have many examples of that – just so there is no misunderstanding. Then there is no doubt that the Minister of Knowledge, like all other ministers in a budgetary conference, is fighting with beaks and claws to get the appropriations up on all their fields and all their responsibilities. It is the government as such and the priorities that we have jointly set out, which justify the whole of the budget that has been presented – and it is a huge effort in kindergartens, in transport, in aid and in many other important areas. I understand that the higher education and university sectors would like to see positive in their budgets for 2007, but in a whole, as this budget is, we believe it is sound. Then I am happy to see the opposition's alternative, because we have put forward a very good budget. This does not mean that there are heavy accumulations everywhere, but the opposition will have a rather demanding task if the sum of the criticisms that this budget has received will lead to the submission of alternative government budgets that show that they can do something about everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e482	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e485	I want to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy a question. Last week I came to think of Alf Prøysen's song trophy "And it's little Jensen, he's struggling all day long," and it was after seeing what's been going on in the government. Oil and gas will continue to dominate the world's energy supply. At the same time, we have a huge challenge in man-made climate change and in the fight against world poverty. These two areas – the climate challenges and the fight against poverty – mean that we need to get CO2 management. That an agreement has been made in relation to CO2, is good, although SV has had a solid political slide. It's been a long time since we've seen something similar. But the Christian People's Party and many with us are asking if the agreement obliges us enough, obliging both the state and Statoil. The crucial point of the so-called Mongstad agreement is the investment decisions themselves. This is where technology must save the environment – a technology that we have today, but on a smaller scale – this is where the money should be on the table. Kids born today – 18 October – will be first-rate in 2012. The boy in Alf Prøysen's song came to an end – with a little planing on the right and a little planing on the left. The sewing table – yes, it was a nice bacon for her mother. My question will then be: can the Minister for Oil and Energy guarantee that environmental obligations are met, and that investment decisions are taken when the first grade is on the school bench, and are not further deferred?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e506	The representative Holten Heimdal's story also reminds me a little of my own story with my first lesson. I was excited and had promised my grandmother the most beautiful creations from my insidious hours, and ended up with something that was hardly a piercing. So someone each has probably been in that situation. Yes, the agreement between the State and Statoil is binding on both parties, and I very much appreciate that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have so clearly signaled that they will support this agreement and support the implementation of such an agreement. The wider the anchoring of the government has in Stortinget on this, the safer we are that this will be implemented in the future. This is an agreement that is historic, and that all parties should end up with, because it could be a turning point in a long-term struggle to get CO2 management at gas power plants. I am absolutely convinced that this will be a project that will put Norway in a leading role in cleaning CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. We're gonna get that fight together. That work has now started by the Government, and Statoil is committed to doing so. The State has committed itself to taking its share of responsibility — a significant financial responsibility. Then the decisions leading to full-scale clean-up in 2014 are to be taken in a run from now on until 2012. There is no investment decision to be taken in 2012, but it is technology choice based on the technology development we hope will take place from 2010 until 2012, when the final decision on the choice of full-scale clean-up technology in Mongstad has to take place in order to be in place in 2014. This is thus a combination of an environmental project and a technology development project designed to create jobs in Norway in the future, which will ensure that we are world leaders in the management of CO2 and will also ensure power generation in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e528	We in the Christian People's Party will make this agreement even more binding in relation to our environmental challenges through our work on this matter in the Grand Duchy. But the Mongstad Agreement also raises questions about Norway will be able to fulfil its Kyoto agreement. Here is the Soria Moria declaration crystal clear: Norway's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must be met, they must be reduced, and issues will be promoted. And I can quote: ‘The government will ensure that significant parts of Norway’s climate commitments from the Kyoto Agreement take place nationally.’ National? Yeah, the main question is at Mongstad. We know that we will have an increase in 2010. How does the Government intend to ensure that this happens, that the Soria Moria Declaration is fulfilled, but more importantly, that the Kyoto commitments are met when the CO2 emissions from Mongstad will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e540	The government is quite clear that we are within the Kyoto Agreement mechanisms and with a significant share of national action to comply with the Kyoto Agreement. Of course, it is not of any particular help to the government's work that the Bondevik II government approved a gas power plant on Melkøya that will emit a net 850 000 tonnes of CO2 from the next harvest without any requirements for cleaning at any time. It will increase our CO2 emissions by approximately the same net emissions as the Mongstad thermal power plant will increase emissions over a period from 2010 to 2014. Then there shall be full-scale cleaning, as opposed to the requirement that the previous government was able to provide for other gas power stations. In addition, we are in the process of cleaning CO2 at the gas power plant at Kårstø, where the Government's goal is to clean it in place in 2009. That's why we've also allocated 720 million. kr on the next year's budget, which is a historic appropriation for this purpose. So we're doing a completely different effort than the previous government, to correct some of Bondevik II's omissions in order to achieve the Kyoto agreement's objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e558	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e561	I would like to address my follow-up question on the same theme to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen. The few people who have followed the Norwegian environment debate were well able to see that there would be an SV that provided for highly polluting gas power plants and thus ignored the Kyoto agreement, just as this government recently ignored the IA agreement. Now we not only feel that SV will open up for several years with CO2 emissions from Mongstad without cleaning, but that it is actually uncertain whether it will be cleaned in 2014. We have noticed that the Prime Minister no longer wants to use the word 'guarantee' in terms of political objectives. In this case, there is just the guarantee that is the springing point, and what the environmental movement is especially concerned about. Can state councillor and party leader Kristin Halvorsen here and now give us a guarantee that there will be CO2 cleaning at Mongstad in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e575	First, I might say that it is easier for Christian People's Party representatives to see the rift in the eyes of others than the beam in its own in this matter. The carbon accounts of the Christian People's Party are a gas power plant on Snow White without cleaning, and Kårstø without cleaning. When we took over the government, we got cleaning on Kårstø and that all new gas power plants should have full-scale cleaning. It shall also have the gas power station at Mongstad. The agreement concluded between the State and Statoil is binding. Therefore, I can say with my hand on my heart that I can give a guarantee that it is in place in 2014. For the SV part, we would have this clean-up in place before, because also an annual emission of less than 1 million. tonnes of CO2 from the Mongstad gas power plant are included in the climate accounting on the minus side. But what we can do at Mongstad is the world's largest full-scale sewage treatment plant. If we do it in Mongstad – and we do it – we will also be able, if we get this economically more interesting, to develop a technology that can clean up CO2 emissions in many other places in the world. We have then helped to combat climate problems on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e589	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e592	I want to go back to the Minister of Oil and Energy, although SV here is trying to take credit too much than they are entitled to, because a total increase, except for the Progress Party, in the context of the 2002 Climate Communication, promoted the requirement that there should be CO2 cleaning on all new gas power concessions. So this isn't something new with SV. The government council and SV's party leader have said that Mongstad is a turning point. I don't understand how. For the government has said that Kårstø should be cleaned in 2009. Statoil and Shell have said that they should have CO2 value chains in place on the Tjeldbergodden in 2012. Starting with something at Mongstad in 2014 is to delay this in relation to the Tent Devotion, not to push anything forward. The Progress Party has put forward proposals in this Chamber that the State should take full and complete responsibility for building the CO2 value chain. It was downhearted. Had it been adopted, we would have removed the discussion that is now, because then it would have been the state that carried this out at any price. The agreement is not binding, as an attempt is made to claim. It is stated in the last section of page 2: If, after further discussion, both parties find that further cooperation is not feasible, they shall find other appropriate solutions. It shows that the Government itself has incorporated outputs into this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e612	It is explicitly stated in the emissions permit for the heat plant in Mongstad that there will be full scale cleaning by 2014. With regard to the time span of the various projects we are talking about, it is right that the government's goal and the government's work on Kårstø is moving forward towards 2009, that Statoil is working to create a value chain on the Tjeldbergodden in 2012 and that we have concluded an agreement with Statoil on implementation at Mongstad by 2014. What's different about these projects is that on Kårstø, the government takes full responsibility based on today's technology, which is expensive, and which is a technology that will only be applicable in very few cases. What is at Mongstad is a technology development project between the Nordic largest industrial company and the state, where they commit themselves and where the state undertakes financially, and we will jointly implement it in a way that the Minister of Finance has already said to help bring down costs, thus making it a commercial product that can be used elsewhere than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e619	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e622	While the main question was the word ‘obligatory’, I'm just recording that we're getting crackling and pretty unclear answers here. The right has allowed itself to ask questions about costs and asked for numbers – we get a completely different and more real discussion when we get the numbers on the table. We have to be able to allow this without being told that the Right operates with care processing, or that the Right is against CO2 handling. We have made it clear that the Mongstad solution was a win for reason. When the Minister of Oil and Energy starts the day here by saying that we have a short-term and a long-term strategy in our energy policy, we will take him to the floor. And where we really have the big deficit, is in Middle Norway, where we have to act today to deal with the long-term commitments. Will the Council of State be able to open up Mongstad solutions in central Norway, for example on the Tent Goods and on the Far East, with yes to gas power and yes to CO2 management?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e637	Let me make it clear: the agreement between the State and Statoil, and the work that has now taken place to find a solution to Mongstad, is binding on both parties – let there be no doubt about it. The right will have full insight into the economy. This matter will be presented to Stortinget, of course with the costs that will result from what is to happen now. Then, of course, a substantial part of the costs will emerge in the run-up to 2009 and 2012, where there will be a technological development that will hopefully bring costs down to a completely different level from what we are talking about today. Investment costs are estimated to be between DKK 3 and 4 billion. In addition, pipe and landfill solutions come at a cost of between 1 and 2 billion kroner. So that's the total investment cost based on today's technology. We're going to work on bringing this down. So, in the case of Middle Norway, we are now working and have worked very intensively over a long time to get investors to come up with sensible solutions in this area. It has been demanding. We now have some suggestions on the table that will be presented over not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e644	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e647	There is reason to hope that the agreement with Statoil is more binding than the Soria Moria agreement, because when the Soria Moria declaration was presented, it was said that 15 years of gas power struggle was over. SV said gas power plants would be cleaned for CO2 from day one, and they said they had back coverage from the other parties in government. Now we know better. It is open to gas power stations in Mongstad, and full cleaning comes only four to five years later. Cleaning from day one was political rhetoric," says Heidi Sørensen, Environmental Policy Spokesperson for SV. We were someone who thought it was a promise. So there's been a regular breach in Mongstad. My question is related to Kårstø, where the government has said that there will be cleaning during 2009. Can the Council of State guarantee that the Kårstø plant will be cleaned in 2009 and when does an investment decision have to be made to achieve it? It's about a very short time, but when?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e657	The representative of Kvassheim should be well aware that it is not possible for anyone to provide guarantees about anything. But it is the government's clear ambition and our goal that clean-up at Kårstø should be ready in 2009. That is why we have also implemented a historic budget allocation for next year. In the current year, we've spent 80 million. SEK on the work we have done in relation to Kårstø, next year we will grant SEK 720 million. NOK plus 140 million. kr to be used for the investigation of value chain and other necessary work. This thus shows a historical commitment to CO2 handling also on Kårstø. The work now undertaken by the NVE with a view to developing different suppliers to build this facility will be completed around Christmas time, and decisions will have to be taken relatively early next year in order to be able to achieve targets in 2009. This is why the Government is also bringing up such a race, where we are now establishing the necessary organisations and getting key people in place to push this work forward from where we are now, and until the completion of the plant in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e667	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e671	My question is going to go to the State Council Halvorsen. It would have been tempting to wake up to the news today that new plenary sessions have been announced against your own government, to use the question to the Council of State on it, but I have to admit that I was neither particularly concerned nor in a bad mood about the news, so I did not choose to ask for it. Instead, I choose to address a question to the Council of State as Minister of Finance, relating to a situation that I must say is becoming quite large and comprehensive and unwieldy as the Committee on Budgets is now moving forward. It affects the so-called tax advantage of individual pension agreements and annuities. I am not asking about the tax justification for removing a tax incentive, nor am I asking about the difficulty of a possible pension settlement because of this, but I am asking about a relationship that has been raised and that is almost not, perhaps not at all, mentioned in the budget: the industry warns quite unisonably that this legislation will result in as much as 60 billion kroner from these schemes as from 1 January and will seek to relocate into society – i.e. a formidable amount released for use in other ways. Then we can cross our fingers and hope that this is not money that is released and used for consumption. In that case, the Minister of Finance will have contributed to perhaps the largest consumer party – at the top of a boom – that we have ever had. What industry and experts believe is that reasonable savers will find a different location of this money to wait for their retirement age and try to get the money to breed the best possible at that time, and since you remove the tax advantage by having the money standing in annuity or individual pension agreements, you think they will be placed in property or housing first and foremost. Then we're not talking about the owner-occupancy, but then we're talking about the family's dwelling no. 2 and 3, or cabin no. 2 and 3, because there's still a significant tax advantage in keeping the money standing. It's going to be in areas, the industry thinks, which we can be pretty sure will have an increase in the value of that kind of property, and then we're talking about our big cities first and foremost. And then we're in a situation where there's now a warning from many trade unions that 50-60 billion kroner will be relocated in a short time at the top of a boom. The Minister of Finance has had a procedure without consultation, without process and without any particular mention, we have to say, in the budget that provides the basis for a reasonable assessment of these matters. What does the Council of State have to say about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e678	First, the question of South Afghanistan, which the representative Sponheim did not ask. There is one matter that has not yet been dealt with in the Government, so he can neither react to one way nor the other so far. So to that question about IPA and annuity. I am, of course, aware that the industry that has made good money in these two tax systems is now subject to massive pressure from the Finance Committee in the Grand Duchy. These have been schemes that they have of course benefited from, and the main reason for abolishing the tax incentive for IPA and the annuity scheme is that we have changed the compulsory occupational pension and made it possible for self-employed people to secure their pension in that way, and tax subsidies are linked to it. So the big thing is that the tax subsidies on pensions are now linked to labour income, to previous capital income. So to the question of the following: Is 40–50–60 billion now ready to invest in the housing market? First of all, it would probably be that the money saved in IPA is largely going to continue standing there and not being redeemed and taken into the market. So that's the annuity we're talking about, and that's how I understand Sponheim's question as well. Then we have to ask ourselves, where are these heads going? For example, I read. in the evening post today that you have started by giving people recommendations on how to do it. We have to assume that there are many ways of saving over a wide range. The housing sector can be a sector, and that is why in two budgets we have now increased the tax on housing – not dramatically, and especially on the most expensive, most expensive housing – precisely in order to improve the balance between savings objects. So finally, it's not that it's documented that tax incentives for saving mean that people save money that they would otherwise spend on consumption. What we have good coverage for is that tax incentives for saving just mean that people who have money saved somewhere move them to new investment objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e689	I did not ask questions about South Afghanistan, nor am I particularly unhappy about the future political rally. In that case, it had to be the former gardener school teacher who's worried about the quality of the lawn in front of the Stortinge late harvest, but it might also be the president. Then to the realities. Firstly, it lies in my question – and I want to tighten it up – a criticism of a case before the Storting that does not address these questions so much better. We know that other areas, small areas in relation to this, have been widely consulted, and then large numbers and realities are brought forward in the treatment of the Great Britain. It's critical. The second is that when we know that a tax incentive for saving in annuity and IPA is now removed, it is largely to place capital that is expected to breed up to retirement, into housing and property, because there is still a significant tax incentive. It should be a matter of concern to a Minister of Finance, and at least it should have been made possible for a completely different treatment and discussion from that to which the Minister of Finance has contributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e698	The proposal to remove the tax advantage on annuity was mentioned in the revised national budget. So the proposal has been announced for a long time, and it has now been promoted in the context of the State budget. Then I would say to the representative Sponheim that there is no reason to believe that this entire amount of savings will be invested in the property and housing market. On the contrary, there will be many other savings objects that will be interesting. It is far too early to draw such a bastant conclusion that it is 40–50–60 billion kroner that are now being sent out into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e705	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e708	Both the Minister of Finance and I have been elected representatives of Oslo. A big challenge for a city like Oslo is housing prices. It's hard for people with poor advice and for people with seafaring a normal job as teachers and nurses to get into that market. Now the state council has run a crusade against the 850,000 people who are said to be the rich, who have had the enormous advantage of saving in retirement. Now this money is going to be put on the market, and many – whether the Minister of Finance doesn't think there are many – say that it's very smart to invest in housing, for example. In Oslo, if you're going to save that money in a lukewarm way. This will only lead to even more pressure on the housing market in Oslo. It becomes even harder for the weakest people in our city to get the opportunity to get their first dwelling, and it will be even harder for them with normal incomes to get housing here in the city. My question is, does it bother the Minister of Finance at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e715	The housing market in Oslo and in other big cities is of concern because very many take up loans. Among the youngest borrowers, it's 17 pst. that borrows more than 100 pst. of the value of the dwelling, and 50 pst. of them taking up loans of more than 80 pst. the value of the dwelling. I fear that many people have not understood what the governor says: that you have to bear in mind that interest rates go up into small but not frequent steps, as it is called – but many have not taken it into account. Then it has to be said in terms of both saving in IPA and annuity, that the distribution effect of making such a tax change as we do, linking it to compulsory occupational pension and opening it up so that even self-employed persons can participate there is very good. It is very much those who have significant revenues and revenues above NOK 500000, which have a significant share of the savings in these two schemes. Then to the housing market in Oslo. I think the Left draws the conclusion too quickly. There is no reason to believe that this entire amount is invested in the housing and property market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e724	There will be follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e727	I have found that in the government's rhetoric one has been concerned that during this period there are the rich who are going to get dizzy and give more to those who have less. But if you go into the statistics and look at who actually has IPA and annuity, you'll see that these are very common people with ordinary incomes. I am somewhat surprised that this government chooses to make the changes it is added up to. When the government budget was presented for a little while back, the finance minister answered questions from me that one would be open to recordings and good consultation opinions in this process that the Stortinget now has in the budget, and one was not very concerned that everything had to go through exactly as it was. Why is it so urgent to make these changes to IPA and annuity? When looking at all the documentation coming from the industry and many users concerned, why not take a new round to get a proper assessment of this rather than to work out principles — to the extent that these are principles — and run through these changes? I am asking for an answer as to why we are not taking any more seriously the hearing opinions that are now coming about IPA and annuity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e734	First, the distribution effect. So it's going to be circa. 40 pst. by removing the property tax exemption for individual annuities, the tax increase is due to persons who have more than DKK 500000 in income. That's about. 5 pst. of the tax collectors. 80 pst. The tax aggressors are assumed to be the property of persons with over DKK 1 million. It is completely wrong to say that this is a tax change, because it is traded into tax reliefs on occupational retirement provision, which have a poor distribution profile. Then I have to say that I am fully aware – I have been in the finance committee for two periods myself – of the kind of lobbying that you are now exposed to from the industry that has sold these products and that has been able to show that they have made good money on it, and that certainly has some arguments for it to continue. But there I would encourage the representative Leirstein to listen to what they have to say, but with a somewhat critical look.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e741	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e745	I am startled by the Minister of Finance's lack of insight into what this matter is about. In a few months we'll know the impact on the housing market. What upsets me, however, is that the Council of State treats this as a technical bureaucratic and fiscal issue. This is about people who take responsibility for their own lives, who save for their own old age. It is about large savers – yes – but it is also about small ones. I stand here with a letter from an under-pensioner, a man who had heart disease and was unpensioned when he was 52 years old, and who has spent some of his money saving annuity. I am overwhelmed by letters from minimum pensioners and disability pensioners who have been busy saving, taking responsibility for their own lives. And then the Council of State is talking like this is a technical bureaucratic question, and about lobbyists coming to the Stortinget. I am very upset about the Council of State's treatment of this issue. What is the Minister of Finance's message to this 52-year-old who has saved through annuity to his own old age?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e756	I have to say that I think the tone from Sanner is now a little over the top. I answer enquiries from people who have saved annuity all the way, and I understand that those who have saved annuity and for that reason have received a considerable relief in the wealth tax, now is not satisfied with this change. However, there is an exchange of tax preference for saving pensions that we have to do, and that is a priority issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e761	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e764	Earlier today, I noticed that the Council of State referred to Bible quotations in its rhetorical answers. There was something about the splint and the beam, as far as I remember. There might be a little bit of different opinions about where they are. After all, it is not the Christian People's Party Youth Organisation that alerts civil disobedience, for example, it is the Youth Organisation of the Socialist Left Party. But then to this case, that hits people -- it's not the system we're dealing with above all. It affects traffic damage, it affects those who change jobs often and who have many different employers. So my question to the Council of State is, is she at all willing to meet these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e771	Firstly, the representative Syversen has brought up with me how traffic damage came out, and I hope that he has agreed that there has been a change in response to the enquiry that causes those who have been compensated before the state budget was presented, and where it can be assumed that they have paid less compensation because they saw that this person could save on annuity, it has been taken into account. So I hope it counts on the positive side. So, of course, there's counterconceptions to this, but the advantage of what we're doing is that we get a much better occupational pension than what was originally there. I do not know if I have a Bible quotation for this situation, but I can assure the representative Syversen that I have gone to Sunday school for many years and have up to several cards of small goldfish.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e778	The President will have another main question, but there will be no time for follow-up questions as the clock is already over the time set for the Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e781	I would like to address a question to the Minister of Finance. We have recorded before the summer that the Minister of Finance has gone very high in terms of government fees. We've had press releases from the Minister of Finance saying that now was the time to have a proper review, so that ordinary people, who, after all, pay these fees, would feel that the fees were in proportion to the job underlying their determination. Then I have registered that in June, the Ministry of Finance set out some guidelines on how the fee determination should be. There are many good guidelines. Among other things, I can referees: ‘If a fee is imposed, it shall in no case exceed the State’s cost of carrying out the act of authority.’; It's positive. So I've registered that the government in its proposal for a government budget has now begun what is called its clean-up, and you've done cuts equal to 270 million. kr. But there's a lot left. We have asked several questions to the Minister of Finance, and I note that there are still some areas where there is no compliance with the charging guidelines. There the Minister of Finance has said in the budget and in answer to questions that you should come back to, and you have to keep working on it. But what I would like to know, since you have gone so high on the track and been so concerned about these fees, is: When do you see that this work is to be completed? Is this something that can really be expected to be better taken into account in the revised national budget, or is it reflected in the proposal for the next state budget? Is it within this electoral period, or do you not think you're getting to the goal at all? I would like to have some clear answers on the way further in relation to this work that the government has started, but that is not in goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e799	First of all, I am very pleased that our government and I have taken up this issue myself, because I am absolutely sure that it provides a much better starting point for people to respect paying taxes and taxes, if you know that when it comes to paying fees for something, it is in relation to the service you actually get, and that there are no snail taxes there that actually finance anything else. And we've done that as the first government. Then we're doing that job, and then we have to do a job in relation to documenting what are the actual costs of what we're counting as fees. We have managed to achieve this in terms of fees for forced transactions, some driving checks and driving licences. That's what's in the budget for now. Then we go on with that work. But I do not have a full overview now of how much snuff taxes that had to be around on fees. What I can promise the representative, Leirstein, is that we're going to work on this all the way. Of course, we're going to have to do it within the budget we have every year – how we're going to make this happen. But we have a high level of ambition to clean up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e806	I'm glad the government has a high level of ambition. I think that's positive. But what might have been okay was that the Storting got a very clear insight into what state fees are not now in line with this principle of self-sufficiency, and what is in the guidelines. I have registered that the Financial Committee has been given an overview of the income aspects of a number of fees. But I'm very excited to know what the so-called costs are in relation to these revenues, because if we're to trust that the Government is doing this job properly, it's important that the Storting has insight into what's at stake. I would like to hear if the Minister of Finance can say that the Storting should be presented with an overview of what the concrete fees actually cost, what the fees are actually on, and that this is put into system, so that we can see that the Government follows up the job that the Advance Party is very busy with, so that these fees can come to a level that allows ordinary people who pay them to see that they are proportionate to the services they actually get.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e813	I think it is very gratifying that the Progress Party and the Government agree that this is a job that should be given priority. So I would like to say very clearly to the representative, Leirstein, that as soon as the government has that knowledge itself, of course, the Storting should get it. But the challenge now is that we have to go through all these fees, figure out what are the actual costs, and identify what we think is too high a payment compared to the service you do. That's what we're doing. We came as far as we have now, in relation to the 2007 budget. Of course, the size must be informed of the outcome of that review when it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e818	That concludes the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e836	First, I must say that I think it is sad that the Prime Minister himself would not respond to this interpellation, because that was the one to whom I addressed it. But I get to bet that the Council of State will see it in the context and whole that this question deserves. The relationship between policy and administration is constantly being updated in the public debate. One of the recent examples is the UDI case. But this isn't a new conflict, it's an old conflict. Max Weber said almost a hundred years ago that a modern bureaucracy is a neutral bureaucracy. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is Although we politicians have the formal, constitutional and real responsibility for political decisions, governance has a very important role to play in a modern society. It is precisely for this reason that the administration must be open and verifiable. Some of the problem in today's situation is that you've hurt to see the openness, and you're very hurting to see the reproof. Over time, this will appear to be a growing democratic problem. True or not — it leaves an impression on the population when watching television series of the type ‘Javel, Council of State’. One ends up feeling that bureaucracy and administration have a much greater power and influence than they really should, with the governance we have in Norway. For many years we have had examples of state councils that have obviously been strongly opposed by their own bureaucracy, by their own office, in the attempt to implement a policy change or political decisions that are obviously not appreciated by the government. Since management has an important role to play, you can start asking some questions. Does the administration have the right or the duty to act across political interests? If you think it has it, then who has that right, and how should such a right be managed? In my opinion, government and government are to be the servants of the state, the servants of the people, and they are to relate to the laws, regulations and guidelines in force at all times. Of course, a civil service should object, point of view and considerations in a political procedure. But this must happen before the political decision is taken by the political authority responsible at all times. It should not be taken on its own if one believes that the policy is crazy, if one disagrees with the political decision taken, because it pleases one better. You don't have to do that. Nor should one take the initiative if one discovers that the policy is unclear or unclear. I believe that, as part of the administration and the civil service, there is an obligation to ask how to deal with any unclear legislation. Nor should one take the event on its own, even if one believes that a political decision is never so pointless – it may well be that one believes. It may be thought that a big business, a county, or a local government is making decisions that seem pointless. It doesn't matter, because decisions are made democratically by elected people, and then they have to be followed regardless of whether you like them or not. It is also easy to be deceived by the administration, especially in local policy, because most of today's local politicians are engaged in local policies alongside full employment, and hard case documents are dunking and the information they receive needs to be accurate. Unfortunately, it turns out in very many cases that it's not like that. It also helps to weaken democracy. We have to fence around the form of governance we have. We must restrain ourselves from the democracy we have. And it's going to be a problem if there's left a feeling that officials are taking care of themselves across current policies. So what happens when events happen? This is currently provided for in the penal laws §§ 324 and 325, but they rarely, if ever, apply. What, then, is the purpose of having this legal home? Although a Council of State is formally always responsible, I find it interesting to discuss whether a Council of State should have to go off as a result of direct disloyalty or intransigence in an office or bureaucracy. Is it going to end with dramatic consequences for the Council of State that has the formal responsibility? In some situations it is obvious that it must be so, but should this not also have consequences for those involved? Having ownership, belonging and feeling responsibility is absolutely crucial, also for case handlers and others in the office. It is crucial, because it is about the trust between the public administration and the population, between the individual case handler and the population, when entering a public office and expecting service, treatment, help and follow-up, to meet ownership and belonging. The question is then: is the criminal law the most appropriate instrument for regulating this, or can it be assumed that this can be done in combination with other instruments, such as drug law enforcement? the introduction of annual target positions to a much greater extent throughout public administration? In conclusion, my question to the Council of State is whether the Government believes that the situation is bad or whether there may be a need for change. I think it's hard to find an answer that we can put two lines under in these questions, but I think this is a problem that affects most of us several times in life. We're asking questions about that. We're responding to it. And because that happens, it's quite obvious that it leaves a feeling that's not the way it should be. Then, as responsible politicians, we should take the debates and discuss the way in which we can remove the doubts about who actually decides and who is responsible, while also ensuring that there are consequences if we deliberately, or otherwise, fail to do their job and go across decisions taken by the political authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e858	As the representative Siv Jensen was also involved, I am the one who responded to this interview on behalf of the Government, and not the Prime Minister, who was to some extent challenged. Before I go directly to answer the question, I would like to say something in general about the position of the employment agency and the framework of elected government, because it is also in the light of the background we have to look at the question from the representative Jensen. The representative is right to say that in Norway only the political offices and posts are replaced by government changes. The office will be seated. It's a practice we've had for a long time, not only in Norway, but also in the other Nordic countries. The Office shall be both a government adviser and a government policy. In their role as advisers, they shall be politically and professionally independent and shall be the best of professional knowledge. Professional independence also means, and only so, that the agency provides advice on the basis of professional judgements. A relevant question in this context is what is actually involved in the exercise of the duty of loyalty of officials and services. For the first time, an official or official shall be a loyal and constructive member of the Council of State, while at the same time taking into account party-political neutrality. In other words, as I said, the office should be both a hub to promote our policies and, of course, be a hub for a new government. Secondly, the Office shall present its views to the Council of State at the best professional level, just as politically desirable they may be to the Council of State there and then. It is a duty to give the matter as wide a professional presentation as possible, which means that I as the Council of State meet countermeasures to what I want to discuss; but I am the one who takes the decisions on the basis of the professional assessments I get, and I am the one who is going to make the political assessments connected to it. Thirdly, the Office shall comply loyally with its decisions and shall not conflict with them, even if one is a professionally disunited body. That's the way it is, and that's the way it should be. The office has different roles, and it is therefore important to have a good sense of role. And it's important to consider different role conflicts. It applies to both politicians and bureaucrats. That being said, I would just like to stress that the Norwegian government has a long tradition of dealing with this, not least in the departments. When it comes to the framework conditions of political popular government, there have been significant changes in the last 15 years that it is also interesting to look at in the light of the interplay of the representative Jensen: A range of actions that were previously part of the defaults, e.g. Telecoms, Statnett, NSB and hospitals have been converted into state-owned companies or businesses.In some areas, the government has created foundations, for example. in the cultural field.In the same period, several administrative and economic powers have been conferred on government agencies. In some areas, the possibility for the Council of State to intervene in professional matters has also been cut off by law, for example. in the case of supervision. At the same time, changes have occurred in the ministry's work forms and tasks. For example, the departments of the sub-parties have dealt with several individual cases and complaints, and in some areas complaints have been created. The Departments have been far more policy makers and have also been given a clearer role as a professional secretariat for political leadership and as sectoral policy practitioners. These developments have been politically determined. It has led our changing governments to this kind of policy. But it's clear that one can ask questions as to whether it has weakened the possibility of elected government. In Kommune-Noreg, one of them, who was also in charge of the representative Jensen, had the creation of municipal enterprises and had debates about how politically directed they actually are. The development line now makes public administration have different form requirements. Multiple government actions are at arm's length from the popular influence. A weak democracy was one of the main conclusions of the 1998–2003 exercise of power and democracy. On that basis, I and the Government believe that it is necessary to assess whether the conditions of elected government are good enough after this development that I have now done well. The representative Jensen asks what the Prime Minister or Government will do to strengthen democracy in this area. The possible role conflicts that I have mentioned earlier show that it can be a challenge for anyone to take a cross-cutting view of each other. Therefore, as the representative Jensen is busy, we must pay attention to this cross-cutting aspect. We must pay attention to how the governance dialogue between the departments and the agencies below can best be done. The control dialogue must, of course, develop in an ongoing process. I mean in the light of what I've now said, that meeting the Storting of an interpellation is interesting, because it makes us tighten up and review whether we're good enough, whether the system we have, is good enough. So ask the representative Jensen: Is everything really well, or is there a need for change? I would say that there is always a need for change, because administration is changing. We get new forms of work, new technology, and the world around us is changing, and the administration has to change as it does. It shows the discussions that the Storting has had about these questions in the last few years. Among other things, we have treated St.meld. No 11 for 2000-2001, on the relationship between the civil service, the political direction of departments and other social actors. This groceries message has, together with St.meld. No 23 for 2004-2005, on the use of quarantine for political leadership in the ministry in the transition to a position outside the country, led to three important changes in the administration: 1. Rules on the quarantine of state councils, state secretaries and political advisers who return to or seek employment in a department after completing a political career2. rules on the quarantine and prohibition of proceedings for officials and civil servants taking positions, duties or commercial activities outside the country3. rules on quarantine and non-governmental action for state councils, secretaries and political advisers Last fall, the then Modernisation Ministry issued a booklet entitled ‘Ethical Guidelines for State Service’. A good part of the issues was discussed here with the representative Jensen. It was its own chapter on loyalty, open administration and professional integrity and objectivity. We believe that these guidelines should be a positive incentive for an ethical discussion on these questions in the ministry. Now, fortunately, it is rare that we need to implement criminal law, as the representative takes up in the interpellation. There are thousands of officials who, through a long life, are never in the vicinity of breaking the promise to the extent that it would be relevant to apply criminal law. Then there may be a few who cross borders. When it comes to the legal possibility of responding to omissions in public service, I would like to stress that there are very special requirements for those who exercise public authority. There are good reasons why there should be the possibility of punishing serious service omissions. We have the two penitentiaries in criminal law. These paragraphs are now being reviewed and revised by the Ministry of Justice as part of the review of criminal law. But even after the service man's law, there are a number of service responses that can be used, such as suspension, dismissal, dismissal and order punishment. My department has now started a review of the Service Manager Act to see if it is up to date with the time it will work. But there are not always new paragraphs and rules are the most important. Sometimes it's more important to have a clear framework and an open and inclusive vocabulary on these questions. The government attaches great importance to openness and transparency to the administration, which the representative Jensen was also involved in. Now we have revised publicity law – Stortinget treats her before summer. We are looking at the state information policy. We have taken many initiatives that will provide better transparency in administration. Among other things, my department has taken hold of a matter that was finished – on a new public electronic postal journal. This will not only ensure the transparency of selected journalists, as it is today, but all citizens who want to see what my department gets, and what I answer, will have the opportunity to do so. It is essential to provide the «worker» with insight into the decisions we make. Then we will continue working on the StatRes project, which will reveal key figures, statistics and indicators of government activity. The Internet should allow people to go in and see what we spend our money on, how much money we spend, and what we get out of it. We're part of the OECD project. We have discussions around top leaders to ensure openness and insight into the administration. What I mean is maybe as important as regulating under several regulations in several paragraphs of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e928	I must first say I find it interesting that the Council of State and the Government seem to meet this with openness. This is a debate we have to take seriously. I think we're going to assume that, essentially, we have a very professional position in Norway -- I think we all agree on that -- a lot of good people who do their job and never create trouble at all. But what becomes the problem is, when the scandals are a fact, both those who somehow become public, and those who never become so, they have to have consequences. Some of the problem in today's system is that it doesn't get it. The Penal Code never applies. And then it becomes a little bit hollow. I noticed that the Council of State said that thousands of people in the office never break the law. No, most of the Nordics don't. But we have promises to deal with that regulates our behavior, and some always end up breaking the law. We have laws to regulate what kind of societies we should have, but the same must also apply within public administration – bureaucracy and civil service. There must be sanctions that apply, one must feel that they have consequences. It is at that moment that the consequences are totally absent, that the danger of flowering an unculture is definitely present. These are the issues we need to address, precisely in order to prevent negative developments. It is well and good to say that it should be politically and professionally independent. I think in a lot of ways it can be, but we must not forget that these are people of flesh and blood, with feelings, opinions, thoughts and political perceptions – like everyone else. This means, of course, that in a job situation one cannot be free of private thoughts, and it can also affect one's judgment in a professional situation. Another dimension of this debate — in addition to the need for transparency and transparency in administration — is the extent to which a public debate is requested, where more people are allowed to participate. The size shall deal with the so-called ‘whistle-blowers’ issue at a later stage. It's one dimension of it. Another dimension of this is why, in a number of contexts, people who represent underlying agencies, external agencies, etc. are so afraid that they are taking part in a public debate on matters that are ultimately to be decided politically. I think we are on the verge of being inclusive and open and allowing those who are not going to take the political decisions to participate in the debate. I would like the Council of State to say a little bit about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e941	I am pleased that the representative Jensen is stretching under two important conditions. First, we have a professional position in Norway, and I'm glad that we now have the opportunity to discuss how to make sure that we also have it in the future. What can we facilitate through legislation and other possible measures to ensure that this happens? So the representative was in the second important relationship that I think is an essential part of just ensuring a proficient office, that's openness. I did quite well for several of the measures that the Government has already seen. I'll take one last thing. I am an IT minister in addition to being responsible for central government, and the developments that are now taking place in the administration, both in municipalities, county councils and state budgets, when it comes to electronic processing, are essential to ensure transparency for citizens. Municipalities that have come a long way in this area are publishing electronic not only proceedings, but complaint proceedings, where one as a resident can go in and follow the case from start to finish and thus affect. One knows what the trial handler has – one can go in and check what happens to the case. It gives the inhabitants a completely different opportunity to have a dialogue with the administration and ensure openness and transparency of what we do. A new technology kind of gives us the possibilities. And as I also said, that we are good at publishing public postal records – that at least possible will be taken away from public opinion – is important for people to have confidence in government. I think this is the best way to prevent – as the representative Jensen said – a negative development. I don't fear it, precisely because I learn that we have a very loyal office – which can be professionally disunited, yes, but which respects the decision of the Council of State. And it's only the council that can assess it. If officials are to take part in the debate in public, I think it may have taken a quick turn against what the representative Jensen will achieve. Where is the limit for when the official has begun to act politically in a matter on which he will act professionally? When will he be perceived as it is? Where will that limit go? It would be to challenge just the questions that the representative Jensen himself is busy with. As I said, we have a law. We have a criminal law, but we also have a civil servant law, with several sanctions in it. That law must be active, but it should not be exaggerated. I think the best way to secure democracy is to give people the freedom to be professionally good at what they're going to do, and then understand where the border goes – also by having an active governance dialogue between substantiating agencies in their own department. One must be clear about which limit goes, and what an expectation should come from the office.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e959	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and good response to the interpellation. The question asked by the representative Jensen is whether the agency lives its own life, whether it is right across current policies, and whether this is a democratic problem. Of course, we, who are representatives of big business, expect the government to be loyal to its current government, regardless of its political colour. I support the Council of State's description of the role of the civil service as both advisers and policy-makers of the Government. The Council of State must always be able to rely on her being given a neutral and professional assessment of the current situation, even though there may be advice that does not always go in the direction that political leadership wants. At the same time, it must be clear that once a decision has been taken, it must be followed up in line with the intention of political leadership. No one in the department shall review a decision taken by the political management of the department. The Council of State is entitled to have a long tradition of dealing with this in Norway and to the highest extent with the departments. However, it is reassuring that this issue is closely followed up, as described by the Council of State in its statement. However, it must be stressed that there is very little cross-border access by officials, so that the use of criminal law is necessary. We also have, as the Council of State describes, a series of reactions before a goes to that step. At the same time, it is important that the protection of the position of the civil service in the State is strong. We must avoid, to a large extent, the pressure on officials to become political staff of the Councils. The representative Jensen refers to the UDI case. But I want to say that the UDI case just shows that irregularities are being discovered. We in the Labour Party will continue to participate in the debate on the subject, and we feel absolutely confident that the Council of State will follow this up in a reassuring way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e972	I think we all agree that the government is doing a very good job in general. That is not what we are discussing here either. We do not discuss whether or not they follow up political decisions. What we are discussing is about the government making the political premises for the decisions taken by the Council of State and political leadership in the various departments. There's a lot of ways that it's hard to track, but it's still there. This could be done, for example, by: is about punctuality, i.e. that the office is delaying a case on the grounds that a person may disagree with the content of the case and that a person spends a very long time in the proceedings before the case is submitted to political management. That is a concrete example. There are also many underlying agencies that have been removed from the centre of power, and that feel more independent from it at all times and come with clear playback through the media, but also through their channels, which makes it very unclear what the government's policy is. It is also the case that the civil service often overcompromises the positive or negative consequences of a policy, i.e. to warn and warn much more than one looks at the positive side if one disagrees with a possible decision. This is not rarely the case in the civil service. When it comes to a new government, it is very often the policy that the previous government had because it got a task from the previous state council, and so the political signals that have been communicated through the media and through the political election campaign that the new government wants a new policy. I am sure that this government has also discovered. It must be clear to the government that when there is a new government and a new Council of State, the political leaders that were given from the previous Council of State must be added. It happens very rarely. The consequence of this is that the differences in Norwegian policy are actually being erased. It's the serious thing about this. It is not that the government commits illegalities, but in the quiet and through quite unnoticeable processes the policy is affected without the government necessarily being aware of what the government actually does. It's done in the ways that I've mentioned here. There are probably more examples that the government can influence policy without the individual state councils being able to see this immediately. It can also be done by channelling the administration into contact with the media, so that matters come into the media via the government agency or through other agencies, and that the media give a case an angle that is negative to the government that is always in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e985	Interpellant’s first post cheese of mistrust to Norwegian officials and officials. She took something into her three-minute post then. The interpellant and also the last speaker raised a very critical question about the loyalty of civil servants and civil servants. Then I think it is striking that the interpellant in his last post said that we should perhaps allow officials to take part in the debate. It is with the exceptions that Norwegian officials do so. That's very wise, especially in your own area. There may be some more looser rules at the municipal level, but even there is an official who is involved in the debate in an area where you have a duty and responsibility, an exception. This should only happen exceptionally. The previous government promoted an action plan called ‘Modernisation for Welfare’. A number of points have been highlighted for the constant focus on modernisation and follow-up of public administration. Important points are that the state must adapt to the best employers in the private sector, that wage and bargaining systems need continuous modernisation – in particular, I believe that there is still a need for some local wage adjustment – and when recruiting managers, greater emphasis needs to be placed on leadership qualities alongside professional competence and greater emphasis on experience outside the sector. I think it might be useful to bring it with you. Therefore, when establishing wage and salary agreements, the contract should contain requirements linked more closely to the objectives of the activity. I think that might also be a proper step to take. The question of what opportunities we have to get rid of officials and officials was raised. Paragraphs 9 and 10 of the rules on dismissal apply to officials, but not to officials. For officials, there are several stricter rules, and these have probably been very, very rarely used. So you could say there's other ways to get rid of people. You can, for example: establish a review commission. Then it often happens that you go on a voluntary basis. In the private sector, firm economic agreements are negotiated in order to avoid strict legal provisions. The State also has a different option, namely to make more than one job in an annual target position. It provides more reactionary flexibility in the event of service failure, or when one does not meet expectations, i.e. a milder assessment and judgment. But I remember two things – the first with the address of the interpellant: then you can hire foreigners. There has been a question that the interpellant party has previously addressed. The other – with a small reminder of perhaps even more lots than the inter-pellant’s lot: such employment requires higher pay. If you are to hire people in goals, it usually requires higher wages, because it's a way to use the most productive time in a person's life, and you have to pay more for it. Practices have been incorporated both in the public and private sectors. Although you get to a higher salary level and may be criticised for it, I think it might actually be useful to take advantage of this in several cases. Questions were also raised as to whether officials and officials were working against, for example. a Council of State. From my point of view here – I have been in Stortinget for 20 years and probably four years as State Council – I have to say that I have not actually experienced that. On the other hand, I have experienced officials who do their duty to put facts on the table, pointing out that a political wish that has been withdrawn from an electoral campaign, for example, may be contrary to decisions that the same party and the same person have previously participated in. And to put it like this, it's been pretty useful. Or one can be made aware that a political wish is contrary to law, regulation or other. In fact, it is the condemned duty of officials and officials – excuse the expression, important duty, to correct myself – to do such things. So you could say, is the fact that there are often greater differences between political parties in an electoral campaign than when they are in government, the civil servants' fault? No, I have to say that political parties should rather take a little self-criticism, perhaps together with the press, which tends to overfocus differences in an electoral struggle and not on what is actually the strength of Norwegian government, namely that there are not too many fluctuations through government shifts. It can also provide citizens with security and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1002	The Grande Røys Council of State shows in its reply that she takes seriously the issues raised by the representative Jensen. But I also have some comments that I would like to make. As a strong supporter of the People's Government, where we, as politicians, govern through clear frameworks, and where the administration puts the decisions into practice, I believe it is absolutely essential that the decisions be put into practice. And to ensure confidence in our management system, we need to have open processes both in advance and after decisions are made. That's why it's important to have a good public law, a law that ensures that people have the opportunity to have insight into what the government is doing, after we've made the decisions we're going to make. However, it is a challenge to design legislation – and it is noted in particular in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, in which I sit – that there is room for individual human concerns. It is difficult to be sufficiently accurate on the part of the legislator to be able to take all the different considerations. That is why there must be a margin of discretion for officials, for bureaucracy, so that we can show humanity and take individual considerations into account. But in order to ensure that bureaucracy does not become too strong at the expense of the People's Government, we are working in the Central Party and in the Government for a decentralization of tasks from the state to the regional and elected levels. The aim of the administrative reform is precisely to ensure more transparency and more democratic control, and that politicians are required to make decisions, not government agencies or state bureaucracies. That is why I think it is an inconsistency on the part of the Progress Party when they question how to strengthen democracy by professionalising the government, while at the same time the Progress Party wants to put down the county council, but will retain the government official, the County Government, in the local and regional government. I wonder how it can help to strengthen more democratic control, how it can help to strengthen more transparency. Otherwise, I have no comments other than the good answer Grande Røys gave, and the post that Inger Løite had here earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1022	My starting point for this debate is that we have a good and professional office in Norway. As the Council of State also said, politicians come and go in the departments, but the office remains. They represent the continuity of central government and have the expertise. And that's a good system. One of the main tasks of the civil service is to be the secretariat of political management and to be the necessary service apparatus to enable a government and a Council of State to carry out their tasks. A continuous interaction between the politicians and the government in a department is crucial. It requires trust and transparency both ways and good communication. The Office has an obligation to make political management aware of counter-arguments and possible negative consequences of different proposals. At the same time, once the political decisions have been taken, they will be loyally following up on what has been decided. And active loyalty is necessary — to work actively to follow up the priorities and decisions of the government at all times. It is the politicians, not the officials and officials in the administration, who have to control the policy. It is a fundamental element of our governance that the Council of State is constitutionally responsible for the policies pursued in that part of central government. A government may be removed by elections or mistrust of the Storting if there is qualified dissatisfaction with the policy pursued. This does not apply to administrative officials and officials. It is therefore essential to establish management systems to ensure that the mandate given to the management through laws, regulations and instructions is followed up. Political governance depends on the dissemination of information essential to policy-making to policy-makers. The UDI case mentioned by the interpellant is an example of a breach of the reporting obligation. Politicians did not receive the necessary information that the guidelines given were not followed. Our democratic people's rule depends on a loyal follow-up in the administration of laws adopted by the Stortinget, and rules and instructions given by the Government as executive. The UDI case is an example of a case you can learn from. It shows the importance of clean management and communication lines between a department and – in this case – a directorate. Clear procedures and a traceable and clear communication between a department and its underlying bodies are necessary, and also between the political management and the ministry. The organisational models chosen must be such that they always meet the need for political governance and control. There must be clear and clear procedures for feedback and monitoring the follow-up of guidelines and decisions. The government must ensure that such procedures are put in place, and at the same time the Council of State must ensure that good control procedures are in place. So far, I've concentrated on the relationship between politicians and civil servants. The other side of this is that it is also important that the population has confidence in administration. That's why this interpellation is important. In recent years, positive things have happened in this area. There's been changes, and there's going to be changes, because we're going to get better. Rules are laid down for the quarantine and prohibition of action both for politicians and for employees in central government. Ethical guidelines for central government have also been established. Ethical quality of services is a prerequisite for citizens to have confidence in administration. Although very much of what emerges from such general guidelines may work, it is important to have guidelines that show the values and norms on which we want to build. The way in which individual employees interact with the population affects people’s views on central government. It gives the public a sense of security to know that values such as: legal certainty, fairness, honesty, loyalty and transparency are put at the centre of attention, and the importance of flexibility and professional independence and loyalty. The Christian People's Party believes that through ethical guidelines and good and open communication, it can prevent the development of a culture – which the interpellant addressed in an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1042	Some brief comments – which I am overestimated that the interpellant itself would have been able to take care of. But since there have been some things here that I think we should correct as we think it is not, I think it is right to take the word. The representative Vedum stressed the need for a regional administration to do this better. I would like to comment on it this way: there would be even more bureaucrats who would have the opportunity to do something that one thinks is not right. The representative Foss pointed out that the post that the interpellant had here, cheese of mistrust. Now, it's just that if you don't get to pick things up and pick them up without being blamed for being suspicious, it'll hardly be able to draw up things that you have to look at to be able to do something with. I'm glad that the Council of State agreed that it was positive that the cases were signed up, and that it is always necessary to focus on preventing something that is perceived as being wrong or unfairly handled by the bureaucrats. It's now once again that we're set to do a job where we're going to be banned for people, and it's important that we do this in such a way that people feel that we have a trust that makes legal certainty the best all the time. It was also pointed out that we want to do something with the County. That's not correct either. We have a view of how this is going to be. When we say that we should have two levels of government, we have also said what we think should happen when there is a debt to review or complain about matters where the citizens think it's done wrong. I think it's important that we always focus on this in the best possible way. It is very important to the people. Therefore, it is affordable to focus on this. I thought you should follow this forward and keep your focus on whether you're on the right path, or whether there's something you can do to improve the situation, so we're always sure that we're doing what we're going to do to the inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1055	I'm glad the Council of State suggests that she takes these challenges seriously. We also have parallel challenges in Kommune-Norway, which the interpellant addresses in his article. Democracy is, or may be, in danger if we do not take this seriously. For example, advisers around the municipalities do not always loyally follow legal decisions taken by local government, without any consequences. This is a challenge for Kommune-Norway. So what do you do? There is a job protection around the councillors. There were some tips from the representative Foss about other ways to get rid of employees, but serious local government politicians think this is very problematic. In small municipalities, it may also be problematic for municipal councillors to sit on both sides of the table – for example. are employed as principals or in other central positions in the municipality. It's a challenge. It has also been seen that intercommunal companies operate on their own, properly with a legally elected government, but with a clearly democratic deficit in elected representatives. Budgetary work in municipalities is important. It is important that there is trust between the administration of the municipality and those who are to make the final decisions in the municipality. Then it's important that the administration provide all the factual information. There are probably a number of local politicians who have seen that no information is actually provided. Information is not provided, and the budget is provided in a small educational way, which means that local politicians do not have the opportunity to engage in this in depth. In the municipalities you have an administration that works continuously with the budget. When the budget is presented, local politicians will have a short period of time to form a picture of it. It is then important that the correct information is provided. I'm glad that the interpellant addresses this important question, and I'm glad that the Council of State also views this as an important question. I hope that we can follow this forward and find good solutions, both municipal and state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1068	I think it is important that we can, from time to time, debate in this room without necessarily making it a policy – discuss issues and paradoxes without necessarily having answers. That's why I thought it was a little unnecessary for the representative Foss to accuse me of being distrustful when I travel a problem that is highly relevant. I think we all agree that, in essence, employment in Norway is highly professional. But we often have situations that create doubt, anxiety, uncertainty and irritation. It is precisely because those situations arise that we need to take these debates, and also clarify whether we are satisfied with the system we have, or whether there is a need to make changes. It is quite obvious that we need a competent agency and bureaucracy in Norway. I therefore think it is relevant and interesting to discuss whether, for example. shall switch to more annual target positions. Of course, I am aware that there are consequences for the pay policy in the state, but why should it not? We see to a greater and greater extent that this happens in Kommune-Norway. There is a constant feeling that advisers and others who are appointed on a yearly basis are rewarded higher and better than the highest-paid elected representatives in the municipalities. It's fully accepted, because you recognize that that's how it has to be. I don't see that it should be a problem, as long as it's a question of how to recruit the best people for the best jobs. But then one must also be willing to go through the entire pay policy and assess whether employment conditions are also in the state that is in line with time. Because it is not certain that you have. We have some old-time compliance schemes, with waiting wages and one with the other, which are rigid and square, and which obviously are not a contribution to a flexible labour market that we need in a modern society. Just like the laws, as the Council of State itself said. Are the laws in line with time? We have to go through this at all times to make sure that we have control of these situations. There must be consequences, there must be penalties, and it must be visible that it means something if you commit an infringement. In the UDI case, which has also been discussed by many, it was quite obvious that there were no consequences. Despite the fact that you had a management responsibility, the only thing that happened was that you went from one's position and right over to another. I don't think people experience it as punishment. That is why we need to discuss this more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1077	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate. There are questions that it is important that we debate. But I want to underline what the representative Foss was about, that we have to do it without having to do it again with the impression that there is a general mistrust of the office. I felt that the interpellant himself underlined now that one has great confidence in the civil service and the servants that we have in Norway. The Office is known for, and shall be known for, being loyal, conscientious and professionally up-to-date and up-to-date. In any case, I have experienced my meeting with the civil service. I have to comment on some of the claims that came, especially from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. As he described the position, I do not know myself at all. I came after two Right-State Councils, and it's clear it was a big challenge for the government to move around. I experienced that before I came to the government office, they had sat down and read the Soria-Moria statement. They had gone through the declaration and tried to figure out what it would mean for our ministry, how they would interpret the new Council of State, and what policy the new government would lead in this area. I want to say that I was very impressed. The government did not further pursue its policy, unless they were told to do so – because I actually agreed with the former minister in some areas, for example. within the IT area. It is important to talk about this, but without making statements that one cannot do more good than what I feel the representative Tybring-Gjedde did. The representative Ib Thomsen was also involved in some relations with the local government. But I want to say, the local government representatives are your employers. All the issues that the representative raised are, of course, matters in which the local government needs to clean up. It is not the case that the state must begin to regulate target settings in corks with councillors or with others. It is the local self-government that must clean up this and have debates similar to those that one has here. We have gone through the law, which the representative Tørresdal also had in mind, and which I myself had in mind. We've had two big messages in the last five years that have done something in this area. We have a new public law. The Minister of Justice is going through the law. My department is going through the service law, not because we suspect the office in any way, but simply because these laws require a general revision. I just want to finish by stressing that I am experiencing a loyal, duty-fulfilling and professionally very high-level employment in Norway, and we are very happy that we have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1090	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1108	Let me, after inspiration from the previous interpellation debate, say that this question has been raised because it is politics. But it's really not going to create a party political disagreement, and I hope it won't. This issue is very specific. It is part of a senior policy that relates to the state as an employer in the ministries. I want to start with a slightly wider angle and say that the need for an active senior policy and awareness of it is increasing, because we are now entering a long period of labour shortage. The demography is irreversible, at least for a while on the way. We know that there will be a need for people to work longer, to get to work earlier, and that fewer people will be thrown out of work. I hope there's a broad consensus on that. It is likely that the medicinal products may be nuances in view. When I think about senior policy, I don't think about special measures related to people who reach a certain age, but I think about the attitudes you meet older people with. Today, we have an average retirement age, or perhaps rather called retirement age, in the working life of about 58 years. It's too low! We can't live in the long run to throw people out of work so early. Of course, the figures are also based on the fact that many barely get out of work before they get out of it, so it has to be added. But too many people who are 58–60 years old and well, meet with an attitude that suggests that they are expected to end. And that's where, in my opinion, the main problem lies. Flexibility when you have been at work for a while may be important. I see that there has been a call for e.g. reduced daily working hours for seniors. I think that's a little crazy way of dealing with the problem. The important thing is that seniors meet with the view that they are as good a workforce as they have been before, but that there is an option there, for example. if you want to move to another type of work, increase your vacation time, reduce your working time or have other forms of flexibility. I think it's important that these flexibility schemes have no effect other than that you might possibly get a little less paid, because the pay is often not the big problem when you've reached a point in life after earning money for many years. Then it's not necessarily the economic it's crucial, but getting the stairs down, maybe getting rid of some responsibility, and seeing the need to open up to others. Now we're in a better situation. I see numbers that indicate it. Not least the government's own seniority council and the non-governmental organisations working on senior policy point out that there are trends that people are now more at work and meeting with slightly different attitudes. However, I would like to stress that this should not be cyclical, as both companies and government employers are now doing so because they see that the candidate lists are no longer miles long. Yes, there are hardly enough applicants for certain jobs. So you don't get recruited young people. For a long time it has been thought that it is better to put young people into a job and do long training rather than holding on to those you have and who have a knowledge base established. Studies show that three out of four workers who have left the job do not actually have a weakened ability to work. So that's the myth we have to beat back. Therefore, it is important that senior policy becomes a constant part of a public employer's responsibility, and that we do not settle for the fact that right now we are moving in the right direction, because the economic situation is the same in the labour market. It can quickly fluctuate, and then it is important that senior policy remains part of the whole. In the state sector, in my opinion today, there is too little incentive to get workers to choose a job rather than a pension scheme, because the cost of the business of placing people on, for example. The AFP is not made visible in the business budgets. That's what the real question is. It's very easy to put around. And I actually expect the Council of State to say that she's going to do it, because I think the time is over-ripe to do it. So it'll be part of the offensive senior policy. I hope that the message that, after what I understand, will later be promoted on the topic will also contain something about this – in addition to the views on the AFP, which is absolutely necessary, and the time is overdue for it too. There is something ambiguous about the public meeting of older people to say, "Stand more in work," but if you're going to stop, it doesn't matter financially. That's the signal that the political majority is giving today. It is mildly contradictory and does not give a clear signal of appreciating acquired knowledge and the insight of old age. There is also a reason to look at the arrangements that apply to those who want to stay beyond the age of 67. Indeed, in many professions it is essential to develop skills and insights, even in order to be able to further the same knowledge acquired. This is not least the case in research-based public enterprises, where being able to hold people a little longer is absolutely crucial. But then it's a paradox that when you turn 67, you have the right to a pension, and you get it. In addition, if you want to earn the public by doing a full job, you're being drawn into the pension. Nor is it seen as a signal of the desire to value work, nor does it appear that tax treatment is less favourable than that which only has retirement from the age of 67 to 70. I hope the government is also willing to look at these. My great and positive expectation for the Minister of Renewal is that she will help to ensure that senior policy also contains these elements – in addition to central government, but also in central government – when other government councils are to promote an overall senior policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1125	Interpellant asks whether the Council of State intends to follow the advice of the State's own senior policy department. As he himself realized that he was in, we could have briefed the debate. I could have said yes – and then I could have gone and seen myself. But of course, I found it interesting to reflect on these issues and some of the challenges that interpellant had to face. This is an important issue, and the government has done a lot of work in the year we've been sitting here. Of course, we focus on stimulating workers to stay longer in work, and stimulate leaders to facilitate workers to work. So a number of government enterprises pay an annual contribution to pension rights in the State Pension Fund. This applies mainly to the exempted enterprises, but also to a number of etaters, for example: The schoolboy. Most enterprises have pension contributions that are followed up at the so-called summary level. So for example, all of these base balls are going to be equal to the premium. Then we've put out a competitive business, like, for example. NSB, Statkraft and the Research Institute, which have an actuarial follow-up. And then, as the representative Foss was also involved, we have a total of 81,000 employees in central government who don't pay a premium. The annual payments for the pension are approximately SEK 5.3 billion a year, and they are covered by a collection of bonuses, or estimates, over the cap. 1542 in the State budget. The cost is a result of a regulation that applies to central government, and the cost of pensions is therefore not something that local employers focus on. Many people are also not aware of what the cost is for their business. It is important, in my opinion, to see what the cost of a pension is, even if the state does not pay a premium to itself. It is important that such knowledge is used in the definition of legislation and in the development of governance tools. The governance tool must be set up in such a way that it takes into account both the rights of employees to an inclusive working life and the social economy. So let me just make it clear: the cost of pensions in central government needs to be made more visible. The large amount of government funding that reaches the age of the AFP in the next few years makes it absolutely necessary for the government to take an overall view. The aim is to provide government agencies with the resources and incentives to make a choice that is also based on economic consequences. It is important to clarify that internal contribution payments for future pension obligations are, however, only one of the methods that can be used to provide better incentives to local employers. And then we need to have the best possible knowledge of how the systems are today, and the effects of them. There are different ways of seeing pension costs. I've cut down a selection that's working on the challenge we got from the government's senior policy council, and they're going to give me a recommendation as it approaches Christmas this year. When that work is done, we know more about the differences in the use of pensions as a personnel policy instrument in non-premium paying and non-premium paying enterprises. There's a difference. Then we will learn more about a review of different economic instruments that can, alternatively, provide better incentives for these activities to rationalize the use of pensions as a human resources tool. Then, as the interpellant had in mind, we can see pension costs in the accounting for analytical and planning purposes. We can introduce the actuarially calculated premium payment for all state enterprises, on which the interpellation itself is based. We can have other forms of internal pricing as a governance mechanism. And we can have regulatory changes to achieve the same thing. It is clear that introducing the actuarially calculated premium payment for all state enterprises means a major conversion of the budget procedures into the State Pension Fund. They will have more administrative work, and we are forced to consider that side of the question as well. We have noticed that a good number of municipalities have good experience with self-financing of early retirement schemes, including the AFP. In these municipalities, both municipal and local authorities are very satisfied with e.g.: the way in which one has seen the AFP costs. These are the experiences we take with us in the work we're doing. Then, as the interpellant also has it, there are other ways of stimulating older workers to work. Annual studies carried out by the Centres for Senior Policy with the help of the MMI reveal that older people are discriminated against both in different government agencies and in private. We see discrimination in terms of pay differentials. We see it in the form that older workers are out of work or not getting new, exciting jobs. We see it in the form of a difference in getting to participate in the course, etc. It's clear that there's a discrimination we can't find in. And as the representative Foss was in, there's more of a expectation that one should go off than a expectation and a wish that one should continue. There are several ways to prevent such discrimination. The easiest thing, and the least costly thing, is to tell people that we want you to keep going, that the lease sees you, that it needs you, gives you tasks, fills you with competence, and says, "We need you, this company needs you." How can we help you to stay? That's the easiest and most affordable way to do it. So an investigation from the SSB in the spring showed that as many as six out of ten aged 50-61 years could think or had planned to leave before they turned 67. So they got a follow-up question about what factors would affect that decision, and that would lead to one still choosing to be at work. Then a lot of people answer: shorter working hours, more flexible working hours. And they don't at least answer: that the boss sees me, that someone sees me, and that I'm desirable to be at work. That's exactly what we're stressing. When I meet the state leaders at the senior management conference and talk about the state's personnel policy, this is what I stress. How do you, as a manager, rent your state enterprise so that you use people throughout your professional life? How do you fill in your skills so that the employee has the right skills at the right time? How do you see to it that older workers, too, are given the right and important tasks? These are important measures in general in the field of human resources. It was also the interpellant inside. Now we might come to what we're a little bit disunity about, I think, the means of action: In the budget for this year, the government released 20 million. kr for attempts to reduce working time in the government sector. The test is simply to see if shorter working hours are a factor affecting the retirement time of the seniors in working life. Both the long-term challenges in the Norwegian economy, including the representative Foss, and the work on senior policy specifically indicate that it would be interesting to make such a kind of effort in the country, to see how reduced working time affects retirement time. In a good way, the experiment will provide important knowledge of working time and retirement behaviour in the country, a sector that has many sensiors. Of course, the state is different from other sectors; both the level of education and working conditions will be different. It is therefore not said that an automatic transfer of knowledge that we acquire, but we still believe that it would be of great interest to acquire that knowledge. In the tariff settlement this year, we also had our own negotiations on senior policy, as even if a collective got two extra days off from the age of 62 and five days off from the age of 65, with the possibility of individually and locally negotiating up to 12 extra days off, as it was in the previous tariff agreement. Then we also focus on strengthening competence. As part of the IA work, but also as a follow-up to the tariff decision-making process, we have seen money for the follow-up of skills measures, including: to strengthen senior policy. As the representative Foss knows, of course, we present a pension message during the fall as a follow-up to the decision last year. Last year's decision on the size of the company stressed very strongly that there must be a stronger link between being at work and getting better out of retirement. There will be a return to the government when it submits its retirement bill later in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1172	I want to start by saying that I'm happy with the answer -- it's not meant to be a cliché, but as a description of the content and a broad commitment. The answer to my question was yes. But how fast do you do this? Is there something going on, or is it coming? This is by no means an easy grip to do. So to what was very interesting to hear, you have reduced a sample that will work reasonably quickly to look at other instruments of senior policy. What you can do independently of the sample is to mobilise leadership responsibility, not least at the middle management level, because there are many older people, according to the Centers for Senior Policy, meet a sort of expectation – you've become 62 years, yes, and then you don't say any more, and there's a sort of expectation that you should disappear, step down, or something else in that direction. I think it's important to do something about it. The Council of State referred to it as a cheap measure, but it is an important measure, and it is part of the ongoing work that should be carried out as part of good human resources policy. Indeed, in the municipal insurance schemes there is a balancing mechanism for the expenditure of the AFP, at least for those within the KLP system, and that is most of the municipalities. In this, there is a poor incentive, because those who pursue an active and good senior policy and get older people to work a long time, that is, use the AFP little, pay the costs for those who use it a lot. So that's what you might want to look at. But other speakers will come closer to it. Finally, only the following for attempts at shorter working hours: I do not meet every six-hour trial, as the Council of State said, with a no. Now, at one of the departments, the government has received a report that shows that all the attempts made so far with six-hour days do not satisfy the wishes of, among other things. reduced sick leave, so there's nothing to pick up from these trials. But if you want to try out new and limited areas within central government, perhaps combined with falling wages when you go into working hours, that's not against me. But then I have to say that it should be combined with at least eliminating the conditions that discriminate against those who are longer in work. I mentioned a couple of them in my main post. I think of them between 67 and 70 years of age who feel that you are being treated worse than the 70s, quite simply, even if you want to work longer. If you combine these things, I think you can come up with a flexibility that allows you to treat people more individually and less age-discriminatoryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1185	Yeah, how fast? asked the representative Foss. Then I answer that the selection that will advise me on how to make the pension costs visible to those who do not pay the premium per. Today, come to me before Christmas, and we are committed to doing a pretty fast process of implementing it. But, as I say, there's going to be a lot of consequences, especially for the State Pension Fund, so of course we have to look at all aspects of it, and we have to choose from the different options to do it. But I don't think I'm interrupting anything when I say there's a difference between the companies that are responsible for their pension expenses, and the companies that don't have it, when it applies to the extent to which the AFP is useful. Of course, we look at this with great interest and have to do something about it. The representative Foss also pointed out, which I thought might be the most important thing to do, is the leader, both the top manager and the middle manager, who is responsible for human resources. But not only those responsible for human resources, for both senior policy and for that part of IA work are far too easy to place in the staff of a staff consultant, and then there is no focus on these questions at the level of the leader. So I've repeatedly this year challenged top leaders on these questions. I have challenged them to pursue a human resources policy where they use their resources. Now we're not going to be against people changing jobs, but when you get an added door, you're going to think, how am I going to keep it added, and how am I going to keep it by just adding it to its competence through an entire career, preferably to 67 years? So the pension message shows if 67 is the final answer to the question if it's 67 or 70. We'll get back to that. Then there are several things you can do. Now the SSB surveys and several other studies show that there is a demand for shorter working hours, more flexible working hours. We're doing something about that in the state. There are questions about being seen. Seeing nothing costs a cork in the country, in private or in the municipalities, so it should of course just do it. In the state, we've also looked at it with new technology. It is clear that a quarter of the state's own pensioners who have left the AFP say that they themselves could have wanted to be at work. A lot of people say when we ask them that there's new technology and the introduction of new data tools that are one of the reasons they left. So what we've done is we've got two experts who are just going to work on data training for our seniors across the departmental community. We've placed them in the Department's service center, and they're only working on being seniors' data experts, just to build up the barriers to new technology, and to make it easier for our seniors to stand up even if the department has introduced new technology. So here's a bunch of things that you can do without costing all the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1194	Let me first praise the representative Foss for taking up an important matter and putting an important matter on the agenda. Let me then thank the Council of State for a positive response, and I would like to stress that the Council of State here places more emphasis on positive instruments than just a small economic emptiness on a government employer. It's about attitudes, it's about facilitating, and it's about clarifying leadership responsibilities. I think that's positive. It is important to change attitudes towards seniors in the workplace, not only for the individual senior but also for society. Then I could imagine referring to what Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen presented at the presentation of the state budget for the current year: what is actually the Norwegian national wealth, and what does it consist of? She showed that she had completed 87 pst. of the Norwegian national wealth consists of the resource that our labour force represents. Then it must also be a goal to increase that wealth, not to sit quietly and watch it be confused, from either one edge or the other. It will be an objective of the forthcoming Single European Act on work, well-being and inclusion. It will be an objective underlined in the forthcoming report on retirement, namely that one wants to keep people longer in work for the sake of people and for the sake of society as a whole. It will also be an objective to exploit a greater part of the residual working capacity of the individual. It's worth working. That's the clear signal of the sitting government. Besides, I want to stress that it is actually a human right to be allowed to contribute what you can to that community, the society of which you yourself are part. It also has something to do with finding its place and finding its identity and defining itself in relation to the community of which it is part. And then I want to make a little point in the end: when we talk about AFP, it's also important to stress and hold on in this debate that AFP is a negotiated right for employees. It is important to be told that, in order not to spread a feeling among people that senior policy is something that can cause people to fear for worked-up or negotiated rights. At the same time, of course, we know that it is that the AFP must adapt to the new pension system and the new pension reform that is coming, but it is therefore also, to a large extent, a question of negotiation with the social partners. In the end, I want to mention that what we are discussing here today is not just about AFP pensioners. It should also apply to other groups of pensioners. If you look at the statistics from SPK, you see, for example, that there are far, far more disability pensioners in the State Pension Fund than there are AFP pensioners. If I've read that statistics correctly, there's almost six times as many disability pensioners. One also sees another interesting point, and that's that there's some gender differences out there and going here. Unretirement is primarily the pension of women, while in the case of AFP, a majority of the active pensioners are men. I think it is important to hold on to the fact that it is important to stay working longer, but we also need to focus on the possibility of using our own residual working capacity when disease prevents you from working 100 pst. Studies also show that there is something very many disability pensioners want, but they say: There is no employer who wants me on the condition that I do not know when I have good and bad days. It will be an important challenge for society to facilitate the exploitation of this residual capacity. The government has announced that it will return to it in the context of the pension reform, by making it easier to combine work and social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1207	The interpellant addresses an important and interesting question. It is also a bit interesting to hear the answer from the Council of State when she among other things. refers to the investigation carried out by the SSB, where six out of ten could intend to leave, and then she refers to what can be done so that you do not want it. I think it's right that it has to do with attitudes. But attitudes alone, I don't think, make more seniors stay in the workplace, or get a better senior policy. There must also be some incentives to achieve a better senior policy. It is a little daunting when you see the attitudes – we can start with them – that exist in some state and public enterprises. In August to September, if I am not mistaken, there was an investigation from the CLP that shows that public enterprises are far worse at calling older workers for an interview than, among other things, that. private enterprises are. It shows that there is a long way to go in terms of attitudes, including in the public sector. This survey also asks the question: What is the reason for calling younger workers rather than older workers, even though older workers have the necessary skills? Then it is said that older people are rejected because they are perceived as exhausted. That's part of the attitude, and that's something we have a responsibility to turn around. Governments also have a great responsibility to improve these positions in the public sector. We know that we're in for a while, and that we're also going into a time when we want to need labour. I'm a little scared given the low retirement age we have today, where, as the interpellant referred to, we have an average of 58 years. This means that the proportion of the population that produces and contributes to the creation of value in society is decreasing, while those who share the wealth are increasing. Here's a gap that needs to be covered, if at the same time you're going to be able to maintain a good well-being. If I am not mistaken, the Progress Party has previously made proposals for an active senior policy and has said that it wants to be presented with a major report on senior policy. We've asked for it a few times before, and it's been said to come. We have not yet seen anything about that message. So I want to challenge the Council of State in this area: when does she come back to the Stortinget with her own report on senior policy? I think it is important to be able to discuss senior policy collectively from a broad perspective, based on different schemes, and how to get the best possible policy to ensure that older workers too feel valuable and can contribute to their skills in the workplace. It's a paradox like the AFP system has worked. It's a paradox in two ways. In one way, the arrangement is very unfair because it is not reserved for everyone, but only for some. At the same time, it is very unfair in the sense that a good deal of work is being done. This has been demonstrated through studies. The municipal sector has, among other things: the AFP scheme used in the form of final packages. At the same time, the AFP system was supposed to be for the laborers of society in its time. The Progress Party continues to believe that it is important to care for the labourers in society. Of course, you should not force people who are exhausted to go to work – it may be people who have had a long and hard life in the care professions, it may be people who have been in the industrial halls working with heavy manual work for many, many years – but it must not be the way it is today, as this has become a general scheme that makes more and more people choose to use it without being worn out. Then it is better to find good incentives to exploit this labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1220	I am pleased that this interpellant debate has given us the opportunity to discuss important aspects of senior policy, which also go beyond the specific theme of interpellant Per-Kristian Foss' interpellant. For many years, it has been read and decided that older workers, so-called seniors, have become a balancing item in the labour market. However, it is a pleasure to record that the pendulum may appear to be turning around. A survey of 750 managers in the private and public sectors, carried out for senior policy centres, shows that the proportion of employers who claim to be positive in employing older workers has increased from 50 pst. to 57 pst. in the course of a few years. It's positive. Now, however, it is hoped that it is not only related to the fact that the labour market has been significantly more under pressure during the same period, because then, as the inter-pellant was also involved, there is a high risk of falling back when or if the economic cycle reverses. In the future, there will be a hard fight between the private and public sectors in both recruiting new and maintaining a workforce that is already in place. Here, I think it is absolutely essential that the public sector, both the state and the municipal sectors, be able to assert itself in that competition, we have to equip ourselves with a completely different human resources policy, not least in view of an active senior policy. Then we wait with excitement and expectation for the big message about the senior policy that is apparently going on. This is in many ways becoming a small pre-post-fection for that debate and the discussion of that matter. The exciting thing about the interpellation and the topic being addressed, I think it's an illustration that when it comes to the debate on senior policy, there are a lot of instruments that can have a very positive effect without costing money at all. I also want to challenge the State Council a little bit about KLP, and how it works. Now it is true that KLP is not the responsibility of the Council of State, but rather the State Pension Fund. Today, many municipalities share the costs of early retirement through collective pension funds such as CLP. As a result, costs are balanced between municipalities with a high proportion of early retirement and municipalities with a low proportion of early retirement. The question then arises as to how the Government and the Council of State can help to achieve a system in the municipal sector, where costs are made visible in each municipality and each individual enterprise, so that a better system can be established, where good seniors and seniors can be promoted. I want to draw a little parallel, use a picture: one can imagine a housing layer consisting of 100 apartments, e.g., where there is one current meter, and where the housing layer is going to pay for the power consumption, or alternatively that one does as usual, that each household has its own current meter. I don't think there's going to be much imagination to imagine which of the two alternative ways to organise the payment of the current that gives the highest power consumption. It's basically a little parallel to exactly what we're talking about in relation to the cost of retirement and early retirement. I am pleased that the Council of State had such a positive, open and satisfying attitude in its response. I am also very pleased that it is possible to raise an important question and get a well-reflected and good debate on it without necessarily becoming such that one jumps into party political trenches. I thought that was satisfactory. So we look forward to the follow-up of the Council of State. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1237	It is profitable for the representative Foss to address the topic, and it is reassuring to have such a strong commitment from the Council of State. It is very important that people with disabilities are encouraged to work more after the age of 62. As the debate has shown, there are more and more people who still have a good and strong working capacity. It is clear, then, that changes are needed in the AFP system, in all sectors and in all sectors in order to take this reality into account. In the view of the Centre Party, the idea of the Centre for Senior Policy is the right one, namely that individual activities in the State should assume the financial responsibility for the AFP pension for their own employees. Even without such a fragmentation of the AFP bill, the various businesses in the country need to be quickly – and I would like to stress quickly – obliged to follow up government policies, and not least to change attitudes, which many have experienced. Today, from our point of view, the situation is that the state is a mess to push seniors into early retirement. Many studies show that seniors will choose to work longer when their efforts are valued and when they can get some more leisure time. Therefore, it is a very responsibility for leaders in the state that they have to be best placed to see the individual and to facilitate that each can choose a softer transition to retirement from a pleasant job. In order to achieve this, both government and growth must provide clear guidelines that in practice stimulate such behaviour. Finally, as we have seen here, the idea of pension reform with an incentive to participate in income-intensive work after 67 years is very important to us in the Centre Party. It's a pleasure that there's now such a wide uprising in the Storting at that point, to facilitate a new everyday life for those who are over 67 years of age, also in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1250	Today's inter-pelling debate has a core that is essential: we need to include older workers in the labour market in a better way than today. The objective of raising the average retirement age needs to be achieved if we are to have enough hands to carry out important societal tasks in the future. For each worker it is important to be included in the working environment and not to be discriminated against, either because of age or other circumstances. In particular, it is important to recall the employer's obligation to organise work according to the individual's needs. The Christian People's Party's policy for seniors is more than older reform 2 and pension reform. It also applies to older workers who themselves wish to continue in paid employment. Despite Norway's second highest professional participation in the OECD between 62 and 65 years of age, we know that many older workers are being pushed out of the labour market, and then it almost seems impossible to get back to work. A study from the MMI shows that half of employers in this country will not even consider hiring a jobseeker who has less than 10 years left of his professional career. Migration processes often result in older employees being pushed out of the company by various early retirement offers, including the AFP. Older workers experience that they are being overlooked by the allocation of duties, training measures and career advancements at work. This is serious. The fight against unemployment and exclusion is a very central part of the Christian People's Party's policy. Discrimination against older people in the labour force takes place despite the fact that the Labour Environment Act clearly prohibits age discrimination and goes a long way in imposing on the employer to organise work according to the needs and conditions of the employee. Discrimination against the elderly also occurs despite evidence that older workers are highly skilled, reliable, productive and have a positive impact on the working environment. There are probably several reasons why many older people are being excluded from the labour market. I am convinced that prejudices and negative attitudes explain a lot. Employers believe that it is more profitable to bet on a 30-year-old than one who is over 55. In fact, the latter, most often in the business up to retirement age, while a 30-year-old often changes jobs after a short period of time. The employer's employment and training costs are thus often the best returns if the company dares to invest in the seniors. Exclusion of a group of people from work is unwise, because older workers have a lot of experience that companies are missing. Having older employees is not charity but simply a good business economy. All indications are that more workers who are now AFP-pensioners could have been longer at work if it had been facilitated. I agree with Per-Kristian Foss that leaders of the public should be given greater financial incentives to pursue a good senior policy at work. Provision of a more flexible working day, a little longer vacations and offers of more and better adapted training are examples. However, when you experience that the nearest manager does not do anything to maintain your employment, many people feel that the AFP is the best when the 62th anniversary comes. I wish we had leaders who independently of economic incentives led a good old age policy. We know that such motivational factors are important, both in the municipal and state sectors. For the situation in the municipal sector, all costs are borne by the community when employees choose AFP. I know that it is not that easy to get an incentive scheme in this area, among other things. because there are structural differences in general government that provide for a lower retirement age for employees in high-burden professions, such as: in care professionals. I support what has been said about good leadership. We have to raise our retirement age and get better at combining retirement and work, so it's worth working. Work is a well-being and, as the Christian People's Party's social policy, I will finally appeal to the Council of State and the Government to give priority to giving older workers in public activities better work environment and give them a greater desire to continue working even after the age of the AFP.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1274	The debate has shown a very broad consensus, not least based on the response of the Council of State. I can probably also charge myself to say that it is not every day that I can say that the representative Lundtigen's contributions in their entirety also cover my vision. It's not going to be a habit, but in this context it's just a pleasure to say it. I also think it's good and good with a fast-working sample. I see the need to promote a big message. Then it would be very good if you could describe what has been done. Storing messages tend to be a break for things you plan to do, but not exactly get done – to say it a little untimely. But if the big message can simply describe an older policy that has come a long way towards implementation, and that what I have now addressed specifically in my questioning is something that can be implemented, it will be very happy, because it is a long canvas to fade, and you must start quite quickly. It was the representative Lise Christoffersen who brought the macro-economy into the picture. As a former finance minister, I thought I'd stay away from it a little bit. It is quite right that the current Minister of Finance made a very precise statement on that point and described that our national wealth consists of the sum of labour far more than of financial capital and petroleum capital, and the figure 87 pst. covers roughly the proportion of the labour force. It's very thoughtful, because it says something about the enormous values of making wise use of the labour force in those areas where it produces high returns. For labour, a defect in the years that come — a defect, to put it that way, even though the expression is not very comprehensive — is a defect in the years that come — and it must be able to move to areas where it contributes to the best use of national wealth. It requires fewer insured persons, more retired from social security, you have to go to work in the past, seniors have to stay longer in work, and it requires us to change jobs more frequently than we have been used to. It has something to do with the expectations of globalisation for us, and those countries have proven themselves to be able to adapt to it. Then a couple of speakers also raised questions about the combination of social security and work. There's another problem that we're going to get back to, but the paradox there is that it almost seems like you need to be insured first so that you can work. Starting with a different starting point and saying that you have a residual working capacity, and social security can supplement something because you can't deliver 100 pst., it's a problem I hope the government will pay a lot of attention in the coming social security message and in the message of various measures to reduce social security in society and get more back to work — in full or in part.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1285	I would like, as several others have done, to thank the interpellant for the question, and I would like to thank those who have shared, for a good debate. I think it's important that the Bigholding is as assembled as it is in this case, just to underline how important it is for society, for our social economy, that we have done something about a very low age of departure. So there's probably some more inconsistency around the agency, but it's probably less important. The important thing is that we have a common perception of where we are going, both in the public and in the private sector. Then we're a little bit on a related theme. This isn't really just about senors, it's about how we treat people, and how we as leaders either in public or private enterprises treat people, our added ones, through a professional life. We don't just have to be interested in them when they're 61 years old and we want them to be in the company until they're 67 years old, but when we add a 30-year-old, we have to think about how to get rid of this 30-year-old so he's not safe when he's 45 years old. There's a much bigger debate that we're not going to take today. The size of the population will have ample opportunity to debate this when, for example: the job, inclusion and well-being message will be sent later. As the representative Lise Christoffersen had in mind, it is also part of the debate to look at the disability and disability, and who is left in these systems. We have 700,000 outside the labour force on different social security schemes at a time when the working life really screams for labour in both the public and private sectors. Hence, it is a responsibility for the leader and a political responsibility to build up around the leader incentives that make him see that he also has an economic advantage in the business by planning well for the seniors. We've been in on it. I will return to the selection follow-up. It's probably not in the senior message, as it's the prime responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion to present it. There will be three messages in the fall related to the theme, i.e. the pension message, the senior policy message and the work, welfare and inclusion message. The follow-up that I'm going to have in relation to the premium payment for -- I was going to say -- the inner state, comes as a matter of its own, and not in one of these messages. Then we're dealing with these other measures we've seen: look at competence, that employees are given the skills to do the jobs they're going to do at the time they're going to, see if we can make more provision for shorter working hours, flexible working hours, being seen at work, being valued at work and getting new jobs that everyone else gets at work. And then it becomes interesting to keep going, and I think a lot more people want to keep going. As many people have said, AFP should be an offer for those who really need it. There should still be, but very many of those who have lost the AFP, would probably have had a greater desire to continue, if we had arranged for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-18.ana.ud1693e1298	The interpellation debate is then over. As a result, the matters on today's map have been processed.
