ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e74	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that the speaking time be distributed as follows between the groups: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e83	The 2007 Justice budget continues to strengthen the entire criminal justice chain, which began in 2006, and continues to work on an active and comprehensive fight against crime. With this budget, we are making a price change for more security. And we're on the right track. Today, in the newspaper today, we can read that violence has been reduced to zero in the Furuset area, after six months ago the effort to combat reindeer crime was made. Akmal Mohammad and Bushra Naz state to the newspaper that they have never felt safer on Furuset, saying: ‘We have not heard shots of six months.’ It was the Minister of Justice who initiated the reconstruction crime project in Oslo, which thus turns out to be an effective cooperation between POD, Oslo and the surrounding police districts, Økokrim and Kripos. The police got $6 million. This is the current year, followed up in 2007. So this is how the red-green justice policy works in practice. The combination of increased and more efficient resource use, improved interaction within the police action, enhanced cooperation with other agencies, such as child protection, and improved crime prevention and security in the municipality. Our objective for justice policy is clear: better prevention, training, faster response and better rehabilitation. This is why we have strengthened the police, the judiciary and the criminal justice system, as well as increased municipal budgets, so that the important prevention work in the municipalities is strengthened. Because we can't fight crime without providing good growth conditions in the municipalities. In a society where some young people look at heavy criminals as heroes where they run around in fine BMWs, we have to make sure that young people have other offers. That's why we've built up where it's torn down, given room to bet on school, strengthen child protection and reopen closed youth clubs – measures that we know are important to prevent young people from starting a criminal racetrack. This budget strengthens the justice sector by about half a billion dollars. The majority is allocated to the Ministry of Justice's own budget, but the budget of other departments is also increased to combat crime. When the red-green majority says that we want a comprehensive fight against crime, it's not just that we want to have an overall commitment to the criminal justice chain, where we have had to spend a lot of resources to restore serious biases that have been allowed to occur in recent years. It also means that we believe that the fight against crime must be firmly anchored in the general welfare policy. This means that we need to work towards a more cohesive community and closer and better cooperation between several social sectors. Security, democracy and legal certainty as key values must be ensured and underpinned by all judicial policies, legislative proposals and budgetary priorities. We have not only introduced a change of course in justice policy and prevention policy; we have also created a change of pace. Last year, the Minister of Justice promised that we would build 100 new settlements to bring down the reconciliation queue. We're breaking the promise. With the budget for justice adopted today, we want 316 new places to settle. Now that we've replaced the yellow leader's shirt with the red-green, we see the results. The restitution queues are on their way down. It shows that we're on track. We are proud of that, but not satisfied. We're not until we've fulfilled the promises in the Soria Moria declaration to remove the reconciliation queue during the landfill period. I am pleased that the Committee points out that the content of the compensation is essential to achieving the rehabilitation of convicted persons. In 2007, it will be used approximately. One hundred million. SEK 161 million for health services in Norwegian prisons. kr on education and training measures and 10,5 million. kr for library services. School provision is expanded, prison libraries receive more books and health services are strengthened. In addition, drug treatment units are established in selected prisons as part of the escalation plan for drug addicts. These are measures that will help those who have completed the zone to be better equipped to face life after reconciliation. The Committee has highlighted the importance of such a commitment. Furthermore, the Committee calls on the Government to ensure that the appropriations for the follow-up of the prisoners are proportionate to the increase in the number of prison places. The Committee is committed to facilitating a close and strong, visible and effective police and narrator's seat throughout the country. The Committee is also concerned that the fight against crime is faced with new challenges, particularly in the face of organised crime, and points out that this places new demands on the competence, resources and methodology of the police. That is why the Committee is pleased that the Government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, is increasing the staffing of the Police and National Staff Councils and is proposing to increase the admission to the Police College. This is the largest recording since 1998 and ensures recruitment, both in the districts and in the larger cities, but also ensures that we have the necessary competence in the building. The high level of activity in police districts continues in 2007. In addition, over the course of the year, we have provided further strengthening of the police, such as the police. results in increased investment in communication control equipment and pistols will be purchased this year and not as planned in 2008. These are important measures to ensure the security of the police and the ability to combat organised crime. The Committee also considers that the deployment of step 1 of a new emergency network for emergency seats is an important field of action. A national emergency network is planned to be completed in 2011. This is a breakthrough for the emergency and emergency seats, which have waited a long time for a new emergency network. The new emergency network will strengthen the capacity of society to respond to organised crime and terrorist threats and is a necessity for dealing with major accidents and natural disasters. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with the Government that the fight against economic crime must be given high priority, because the adverse effects are so significant and are satisfied with the continuation of the Ecocrime effort and the extension of the aid auditor scheme to a nationwide scheme. The government will provide victims of crime and relatives with better follow-up and strengthen their position. For this reason, the proposal for a freely assisted lawyer is important both for victims of rape and for trafficking in human beings in order to ensure better legal certainty for these people. The Committee also welcomes the Government's proposal to increase the level of grants for special legal aid measures. This helps to ensure both the operation of the Oslo Legal Aid Office and to strengthen, inter alia, its activities. Street lawyer and student law assistance measures. As far as the courts are concerned, the Government has proposed 17.5 million. to the implementation of the new dispute law, which the Committee welcomes. This shall ensure both the necessary training and the development of the judicial process, and is necessary to ensure that the objectives of the law are achieved: effective civil justice providing for faster, cheaper and more appropriate dispute resolution. The allocation of structural change at first instance has also been strengthened and ensures that judicial reform is implemented in line with the assumption. The Committee also points to the need for a new Gulating Law Office. When we considered the current year's budget, the Committee was in agreement with the need to increase preparedness in the northern regions. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Government had first been revised to continue its day-to-day watch on Banak from 1 July and is now granting funds to ensure that the day-to-day watch is established in Bodø. And I have to stress that this has the government clear in less than a year, while the Bondevik government spent four on just introducing bystander on the Sun. In addition, the tendering process has also been initiated in relation to the establishment of a rescue helicopter base in Florø. Through the reduction in the pay queue, which will prevent criminals from committing new crimes while they are waiting to zone, through better rehabilitation in prisons, and through involvement in police and welfare, we are reducing the violence and crime in society. By changing the law and providing the courts with better conditions to ensure the position of victims, we now see a clear change in course and a change in the pace of justice policy. This will benefit the entire community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e131	On page 73 of the staging proposition we can read: ‘The lack of sufficient prison capacity and scarce resources for the content of the criminal execution weakens the effectiveness of the penalty and reinforces the problem of recurrent crime.’ I then feel comfortable with the representative Bjørnflaten that this year we give a penalty discount equivalent to approx. 150 years in relation to forward parole, when we also know that these are repeaters?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e141	The most important thing we can do to reduce repeat crime is to improve the content of the ransom, and I'm glad that a unanimous committee has agreed. For this reason, the Government has also included in its budget a strengthening of healthcare, education and library services. Then we're concerned that progress in the reconciliation is important, so that we can ensure a good return to society. We think that's the way we can make people meet society and work better in society after they're settled. That's why our plans in relation to progress in restitution, on which the representative Horne is involved, are important to reduce the total crime in society and are important to reduce reoccurrence crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e148	Glad news from the government's court organ, the Newspaper of the Day, we shall rejoice if it can be documented and attributed directly to the rendition project. But the description provided by the committee leader is not necessarily shared by the police in Oslo, who are struggling with lack of recruitment, experiencing ad hoc solutions and cracking priority signals in more and more areas. The committee leader said this project is being continued. This means that in the budget there are fresh funds in full-yearly effect equivalent to about 1 %. Twenty-four million. kr, so that one can continue for the whole of the following year without being at the expense of the ordinary budgets, for example. Also in Oslo? And how can the committee leader describe a real drop of 50-60 million. kr as a ‘strengthening’ of the level of activity? What efficiency measures are equivalent to 50 to 60 million. Does the chairperson of the committee consider that the real cut in the budget for next year should be offset?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e155	The fact that the repeat crime project has worked is precisely an example of this in the Newspaper. It emerges from the article that there have actually been zero reports of violence on Furuset after the re-establishment of the re-crime project six months ago. The recurrent crime project will also be continued until next year. As I said, it's not just about increasing funds to get the police to work better, but it's also about better resource use, and it's about getting better cooperation within the police, but also better cooperation between the police and other agencies. I have to say that the Municipality of Oslo, which is run by the Right Party and the Advance Party, has come, but has not helped to reduce recriminalism by, among other things. cutting down as dramatically as the municipality has done in important youth actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e162	It is then true that I can say that the municipality is betting quite a lot on the districts. It strengthens youth interventions, which always appear in the major debates because they are vital. Then, together, we can enjoy the results of the Furuse. But the reason why I took the floor is that, as a basis for the budget this year and in the years to come, there is a decision that the Stortinget has made before, namely that, in connection with the Norwegian police, we should look at the overall manning situation both in the case of police officers who are going to do jobs and in the case of civilian positions. This is a demanding theme. We have long-term debates about the defense, we rarely do it about the police. So I just want to take the opportunity to ask the representative to think loudly about this. I think the alternative to having a very high level of surveillance is that we have people who can go outside. We saw the last summer when the police started patrolling Karl Johan, that there was a lot of work going on fast. And I'd say in parentheses, we might have saved some piggy debates about worthy relationships for one and the other if the police had walked before. So the representative's reflections on following up this with crewing both for the police civil and police, I'm excited.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e171	I have to say that I very much agree with Mr. Dørum's approach here, and I am very pleased that a co-conspirator agrees that it is important for a police officer present. We have also pointed out in the Soria Moria Declaration the need to strengthen the police, increase staffing, and that is why we are increasing the admission to the Police College, because today we see that we have problems in filling out posts in the districts. But the new year is that we also have problems filling jobs in the big cities. This is why it is so essential to increase the recording, and the recording has not been so large since 1998. This is part of a long-term plan to increase the staffing of the police. Then I am concerned that we are dependent on good cooperation between police and defence – and I think we have – and that it is important that the police also cooperate with the municipalities through police councils, as the Stortinget pointed out, in order to have good effects and the best possible fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e180	Then the day has come for this year's event in colors as far as the Justice Committee is concerned. The big words, the self-crust, are going to come out, and we're going to show how good we are. It is an annual phenomenon, and it is of course important both as a matter of marking and perhaps also to clarify and clarify its political positions. In this way, it should be interesting for everyone present. A challenge, in my opinion, is the position of the justice sector in society. As I see it, the justice sector is one of the bearer elements of an open democracy like ours, and of course also in other democracies that strive to have the same democracy that we have, and that we are very proud of. The question is, do we get it done, and is it a reality? And then I ask myself, do we have enough police per person? today to do what we want to do? Do we have a court capacity that is at the level it should be? Do we have a prison system that is able to do the job we all expect? For the interrelationship between these three, the quality of the total supply provided by the justice sector is equal. If there is a discrepancy between the expectations we have for these three and the reality, the justice sector is not the foundation it should actually be, and it should worry more parties than the Progress Party. We sometimes look at entries from countries that don't have our values and our basic democracy, and see how they're struggling. At least then is a concern from my side that also here in the country, although we have it very well, we still have a bit to go. There are things we should get significantly better at, and we have challenges that we should jointly look at and seek to solve for the benefit of the justice sector and thereby for the benefit of the country and its inhabitants. It should be a general objective for the whole Committee. I think, unfortunately, there is also a fact that there is today a misunderstanding between this. Of course, we can politically explain the reality that we lack policemen, we struggle with settlement cows, and we are still struggling with leftovers in relation to the judiciary. So even though things get better, we're not at the level where we all want to be. It's a reality that we can, of course, explain politically, but I believe that people on the outside of the Storting actually see us through to a greater extent than what we both like and believe, and that's a serious signal that we should take with us. What's happy, anyway, is that in the justice sector as such, a great many good people work, and there's quality in the police, in criminal matters, in the courts, in the conflict councils. There are amazingly many good people who are out there doing a job for the benefit of the people and for the good of the country. They're going to have honey, and it's at least one of the things that I want to point out from here. Another thing: the justice sector is made up of many small sections that may not receive the necessary attention, and one of the things I'm at least proud of is the job that Norwegian police are doing abroad. So we have Norwegian policemen going out to very unsafe parts of the world who are helping to create similar organisations that we have here. It is one of the things we should be proud of and satisfied with – that we also contribute to this kind of u-help to help others build our values, so that, in the long run, if the nation wants it, democracy can get off the mark of the Nordic countries, which is very good. As I said, I think sometimes we focus too little on individuals who are out there doing a very important job for us. During the last financial debate, the Minister of Justice pointed out that sometimes justice debates and other debates were perhaps very umbilical, and he may have the right. Poverty is also a very interesting topic. Sometimes I have the impression that poverty is being equated with crime. It's a description that at least I want to distance from. I even think that many of us in this room have different backgrounds -- I'm sure the Council of State is aware that people have different backgrounds -- but it's not like you're necessarily criminal if you've had a difficult growth or come from a poor state. I think it's completely different things that underlie it. But, of course, it is important to fight poverty. It is an objective, and it should of course also be so, within reasonable limits, that the better people have it, the better you should be able to take care of yourself and yours, and that should be an objective. Alcohol policy is also a subject of controversy, which the Justice Committee takes into account when we have this debate. We're probably going to do that today, too. Sometimes I have the impression that you make alcohol like – yes, I don't know what kind of words I'm going to use from here, I might be careful. But if we now take into account the reality, alcohol is a legitimate commodity to sell and enjoy in Norway. What we're worried about is probably abused. That's what we're all concerned about, and our challenge is to find the balance between use and abuse. We're going to hit it hard, we're going to use it per year. Today legally, and I have not registered that the current government has made any major creative changes in the alcohol legislation in this country. It is also a paradox to my knowledge that the parties that criticize us most for our attitude are the ones that facilitate the creation of a regime for those who smuggle to the country. The only people who make high alcohol charges are the finance minister and the smugglers here in the country. But if it's a goal for the government to take care of the smugglers, then honor it for it. At least we don't want to do that, so we leave it to the red-green ones, and they're very good there. I also believe that if we go a little further and look at the other things that are challenging for us, it is of course that the police are struggling today. It is a reality. We are looking up a notice that the police are struggling. They want to do a job, but they don't get resources to do it. Then the committee leader and others can explain the reality. But people are probably veiled than that, and for me it's important to relate to reality. As far as the hearing in the Justice Committee is concerned, I thought the Criminal Welfare Association would be very impressed and pleased. At least I did not perceive that signal during the hearing when they pointed out that what we are doing now may be good, but that is still not correct. What we're missing is more closed places, and per. Today, there is no priority for this government to judge by the budget submitted. In the case of advanced parole, I will go to the step of saying that what the Minister of Justice has now done is that he has invented an eternity machine, you let people out early, let them commit new crime, get back in line and back in. The eternity machine is invented. I wasn't aware that it was the justice sector that was going to do that, but per. In my opinion, you actually did it. If that was a desired consequence, I should leave it unsaid. So what is the approach of the Progress Party? There is, of course, an increased commitment to the police, because we believe that one of the best means of prevention is to bet on an increased, visible police force out there. It also helps to create security for ordinary people and to create insecurity for criminals, and there are two goals that are important to us. We also see the need for an investment budget for the police. Even though I registered that the committee leader now boasts that the government has prioritised, I actually thought it was the Police Directorate who is going to make the priority. But it's possible that we have a difference in opinion here. The Oslo police are undoubtedly struggling, at my discretion, but have no priority with this government. PST has challenges. Closed prison grounds are a problem, and the courts are. What is at least our ambition is, of course, to create greater security among the citizens of this country. They deserve that. They're actually paying for it. Through the tax bill, we pay a share into the community, and we expect some things back. I have to say, with respect to reporting, that I think a lot of them are disappointed when they experience insecurity, when they experience crime in the community and call and ask for help, if they're lucky, they come to a telephone answering machine. Or you call on a Friday, maybe you can come back on Monday, if you have a thing you want to do something with. In many ways, at my discretion, the nation of Norway is not worthy of this. Of course, you can boast that you have presented a good budget for justice. She can bet it's a bet here. But if you look at the justice budget as such, it has a strengthening of approx. 2.2 pst. Of course, part of it goes to the emergency network, which is moved to another committee for treatment there. But I have recorded that next year's salary growth is expected to be 4.5 p.m., i.e. twice that of the increase in the judicial budget. It is possible that it is good – for the Government. That's not good for us. We think that, with all sorts of respect, this is a bit of a ping-pong. It may be unparliamentary, but I'm taking the chance. As I said, I have registered that you are busy with the Oslo police. Then I find it interesting to point out that the reinforcement to the Oslo police, which the committee leader was in place, is estimated at 60 million. kr. I wonder if the committee leader has found out what overtime use is in the Oslo Police Department. It's approx. 60 million. kr. So what you've put on you might pay the overtime bill in Oslo – 'that's it'. If that's good, be honored for it. We think it's pretty bad stuff. So that's the bet of this government. I'm going to think that in these Christmas seasons it's tempting for him to wait until Benny in the Christmas calendar, who said: bob, bob – right? And I'll say that when it comes to your bet. So a final warning to the committee. During the examination of this year's budget, I have been concerned about a development that I perceive is moving towards focusing on disagreement and not on consensus within the committee in the work towards the budget. That's what I'm worried about, and I'll warn you about it, and point out that we agree very much on most of it. Finally, I will address our proposals and the proposals we have with the Right, and inform you that the Progress Party will support the proposals No. Nine and ten from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e220	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e225	In the Committee's comments, the Progress Party agrees with the majority that it is important to strengthen the fight against economic crime. I'm glad. In its own comments, the party is also concerned about the potential of Customs to prevent the illegal import and export of goods in Norway. At the same time, the party proposes to cut 848 million in its alternative budget. kr on the financial framework, and a large part of this is going to carry out the work of the Tax Administration through this direct work against economic crime and the Customs Administration. Can the representative Ellingen explain the relationship of the Progress Party with life and learning in the fight against economic crime, and the ability of the Customs Authority to do their work, in the light of the cuts proposed by the Progress Party on precisely this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e234	I thank you so much for the question. I think I should first of all note that the representative and the committee leader are satisfied with today's bureaucracy, and that it is important to take care of it, perhaps rather than looking at the solutions that you have. I might be allowed to take an example. I had a few days ago the pleasure of visiting a customs office to be allowed to pay VAT on two papers. It took me an estimated 50 minutes. If that's the regime and the system the Workers' Party seems to be a good process, it's okay, but we're open to making things better and simpler and in this way also be able to make public institutions more efficient. That it will affect the mass of members and the accession of the Workers' Party is a problem for the Workers' Party, not for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e243	It is through the State budget that the various parties are given the opportunity to show how they would have suggested that the funds should be disposed of. So what we are going to vote on today is the proposal of the government parties, with a framework of DKK 13.2 billion. Then I'm going to look into the document to find out how, as far as those amounts are concerned, the Progress Party has intended to give priority. What is then found as a total in the 2007 draft budget of the Progress Party is zero, nothing – you could use the words smoldering, zero, nada. Thus, the Progress Party does not promote a single alternative proposal for 2007 which has any economic impact at all. I want to ask the Progress Party: how has the Progress Party planned to run the Justice Budget at zero to next year? If the Progress Party does not intend to support the proposal put forward here by the government parties, what is the intention of the Progress Party to propose that the budget for justice be driven to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e252	I thank the representative, Mr Ballo, for the question. I expect that the representative Ballo has been in this regime for so long that he knows the difference between opposition and position. And I record that the opposition representative Ballo used to vote against the proposals that were submitted from the position. But it is possible that it has changed since he joined the government. If the representative of the Ballo is concerned about the Advancement Party, I actually think he should be much more concerned about what the Government itself is doing. It is a fact that in this country lives approx. 250000 minimum pensioners below the poverty line of the OECD. Why does the representative Ballo not take hold of such things, which he has the opportunity to influence, rather than point to the Progress Party? I think he should be more concerned about his own policies than about our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e259	The representative Ellingsen and the Progress Party were concerned that they were not to be taken into account. It was the invitation he had to the rest of Storting's parties on alcohol policy versus criminal policy. I'm going to take Ellingen a little bit on the word. He was talking about alcohol abuse. Every Monday, pretty much, we can read about how it goes in the center of the city when it's being abused too much alcohol. In this city, the Progress Party has a heavy hand in steering precisely this area, as they have the City Council responsible for the tipping policy. With the background of all the violence taking place on the weekend in this city, which is linked to the suburbs of Oslo Centre, the question is: Does the Progress Party at all see any connection between the violence crime in Oslo Centre and the gist policy pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e268	What the representative of the Syversen and I agree on is that abuse is a general problem, which of course has to be tackled. If it is implicit in the question from the representative Syversen that a more restrictive line should be taken, my answer to the tipping points would be no. If the comment to the representative Syversen was correct, that less then actually went out, I should have bought it. But, unfortunately, I don't think so. I guess the number of people going out is going to be at the same level. That means that even more people are going into even fewer places, and that will lead to even bigger problems than what we have today. So I'm sorry, I don't buy the assumption of the problem, so I don't agree with the representative of the Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e278	Safety in everyday life is a basic prerequisite for good quality of life. People should and must have confidence that the police will intervene in cash when crime is committed. Proposals for the 2007 Justice Budget refer to a number of initiatives, but I feel far from sure of the government's ability to implement, and whether the medicine prescribed is always the right one. The increase in criminal services is positive, but the police experience and characterise the 2007 budget as a breakout. The right considers that we have a police force in spite of the development of crime, and that it is urgent to start work on an escalation plan for the police in Norway. Several of the measures taken by the Government to wind up the reconciliation queue are at odds with the right, and we are amazed at how the government is running ideological bargains and preventing more efficient use of resources in the police. Nor can the right understand how the government can expect respect, when at one moment you boast of the job that private organisations do, and will cooperate with them, then at the next moment to deny the competence and resource that such organisations represent, and show them on the doorstep. Today, I feel the primary need to say that the smallest of us need the greatest care, including in criminal policy. The two Focus Programmes from Kautokeino have shocked us and witnessed such a betrayal of these girls, both by the authorities and by the community. The unculture we've been exposed to is so frightening that this must be a matter for more than the local police. Kautokeino is in crisis, and I would like to ask the Minister of Justice what measures he would like to take to get this community back on track. The Minister of Justice will undoubtedly do much. Despite all the information we know about sexual exploitation and child abuse, we can see that Storberget is often involved in cases of increased legal certainty for children. This contributes to unnecessary delays and raises doubts about actions where he should have gone straight to the goal. We are most disappointed that it must take so long for Barna’s house to be in place, and that the councils and government parties will not contribute to the evaluation of regional Barna’s house and can already be established. The children's house means that the child meets all parts of the auxiliaries in one place and does not become a public game ball. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Right has proposed to grant 10 million. for the establishment of three additional regional Barna Houses, in addition to the one central pilot project for which the Council of State has agreed. I think the government should realize that a pilot project in Oslo is not the answer to the need that is currently in Kautokeino. In addition, the Right wishes to stimulate other local cooperation activities to the best of the child. It is the police that are at the forefront of the fight against crime. When the Government presents a 2007 budget that in reality represents a real decline of about 50 million kroner, the trend is going in the wrong direction. The right will therefore strengthen the police budgets by 50 million. kr to be able to continue the active fight against organised crime and to strengthen the work of Kripos. The police have to take the challenge online and get started with a police station and online patrol as soon as possible. The web can no longer be a lawless zone. The police must be there and have the opportunity to intervene when adults cross borders and the danger of abuse are imminent. The right is impatient and looks forward to the Government proposing a Norwegian grrooming paragraph. There is little doubt that police budgets are very tight. In such a situation, there is good reason to consider any measure that helps the police to concentrate on their core tasks. Lack of custody and long-distance transport for prison and manufacturing steals considerable resources in terms of travel costs and police time. The message from the floor is clear: the police budget does not go further. The question then becomes what kind of crime to prioritize. In criminal policy, it is more than ever about setting clear and early limits to counter norm resolution, on developing more differentiated settlements, on providing good rehabilitation services and on giving criminals a new chance after settlement. The compensation must be more and better individualised, and it must also be a matter of course that the compensation should fulfil its function as punishment. The Minister of Justice has turned the settlement queue into his main task, and has started with what I want to characterize as a criminal policy experiment. The removal of the soot queue by 2009 has resulted in a significant increase in the use of forward parole and transfer from closed to open prisons. The number of open spaces increases at the expense of enclosed spaces. Crime is moving towards more serious crime, and then this is the wrong way to go. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal from the Right in the vote. I refer to the joint proposals from the Right and the Progressive Party and I would like to point out that the Right will support the proposals from the Left. I refer in this context also to a note on page 36 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e299	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the suggestion she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e305	I must say that I have read the comments from the Right on the budget with great interest. There are quite a few of them I'm struggling to see the logic in. I want the representative to elaborate particularly on one of them, and it goes on that the Right wants to spend money establishing its own rapid court for young offenders. I don't fully see the logic of it, as long as we're down to 42 days in trial, which has been a unified goal for all the politicians. Can the representative explain why it's smart?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e312	I'm sorry, President. I hear a little bad, so I didn't get the whole specific issue. Can the representative take the question one more time and talk a little bit higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e317	The President allows the representative of Breen to repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e320	I wonder if the representative Aspaker can explain why it is now smart to spend money on setting up our own juvenile court, when we see that the trial period goes down to 42 days, which has been a common goal for all politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e325	Thank you. I'd like to justify that if there's something that's really effective crime prevention, it's taking the youngest offenders seriously from the start. Then I think that the time we can gain by having such matters quickly investigated, and get them quickly convicted, is actually among the biggest and most important contributions we can make. That's the reason. I am aware that there have been a number of test projects with this, and that it has been successful. Then there's a point that we're going to try to do an even better job in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e334	The representative Aspaker mentioned a number of proposals that the Right in his alternative budget says they want to come, among others. strengthening in relation to the house of Barna. The proposals and recommendations to be considered in the Chamber today start on page 53 and even go to page 57. The only thing that the right-wing proposal promotes is a proposal for DNA, but it doesn't come with a crown. Will the representative Aspaker be precise as to where the proposals from the Right can be found in this document, where the Right alternative to the Government's draft budget is to present its own proposals involving some funds for the justice sector next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e341	I think this is a strange problem. Now we've had a bigger discussion in the committee about what the setting should look like so that not least the government parties – I kept saying – should be comfortable with it. I believe that through the different and individual chapters of the setting, we have clarified our priorities. In addition, the right has provided an overall alternative budget where we have deposits, and has shown how we should give total priority. Then I believe that we have certainly done our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e346	I want to give credit to the Right for really waking up after the hibernation after four years of government. Personally, I really appreciate that they are constantly making proposals that are the same measures that the Government has already seen and started a work on – yes, actually on the case-by-case basis. But one has got it so incredibly busy, everything should have been done faster. What the Right had four years in the government to do and propose, this government should at least have been done during the year she has been sitting! What makes the Right not get through in the previous government, in which they put in – because that's where the dog is buried – or couldn't come up with good action itself? Is it easier to run for others?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e353	When the election was held a year ago, there were actually a lot of things ready to be outsourced. Then we've got a government that, at my discretion, has spent an unnecessary amount of time on some central, important measures. I will once again draw out Barna's house as an example. It is a paradox that Sweden has used the Norwegian investigation, and has established its Barna’s house, while in Norway it is still running and investigating. So I want to refute the statement that comes here, that we didn't do the job. On the contrary, I believe that we were well on the way and had a number of initiatives – and more would have been taken if we had continued in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e363	There is a great deal of agreement on this year's budget for justice. Despite the fact that we have seen evidence of criticism from the Progress Party and the Right of Individual Items, where there might have been some suggestion to do something else, there is today only one proposal for the 2007 Justice Budget, and that is the proposal from the Government. Neither the Right Party nor the Progressive Party are promoting their own budget proposals in the Chamber today. That means we're facing two alternatives here. One is that the 2007 Justice Budget for Government Parties is adopted. There is no alternative to a proposal from the Right that has a majority, or a proposal from the Progress Party that has a majority. The alternative to that is, as the Right Party and the Advance Party have chosen, that we will not get any justice budget at all for 2007. If these parties were to have a majority in the Chamber today – if the Progress Party and the Right were to vote against the budget – there is no alternative budget for 2007. The consequence would be that we don't have funds for the justice sector next year. It's an approach that the two parties have chosen, but of course it's an approach that is such that it's impossible to accept that the two parties get a majority. Now it is, and it has been Elisabeth Aspaker that the Right in its original approach, before defining the framework for the Justice Budget in the Financial Committee, had an alternative approach. I understand that's what Elisabeth Aspaker here has been into. I have looked at how the Right would cover its alternative budget. What is proposed is family reunification, fewer early retirement through the AFP, more frequent leave for the study federations, no increase in regional development and innovation appropriations, and a reduction in press support by 157 million. NOK 1,5 billion will be cut for agriculture, it will be cut for aid of SEK 1.5 billion, it will cut for health care grants of SEK 400 million. • to cut the agricultural development fund, cut the framework grant to the municipalities, cut the appropriations for the unemployed, cut the appropriations for the county councils, cut the appropriations for the state education, cut the sick pay and cut labour market measures. You don't get a pass on the right. It will be impossible for this government to support this kind of serious cut. The consequences of this would be evident in all sectors of society. There would be increased unemployment; it would be that a number of new people got into poverty; it would be that a series that is difficult to deal with got even worse. The Government cannot accept that – of course not. When the Right does not get through to all these drastic measures, they say: then we do not have the means to finance the justice sector, so we do not promote our own proposal. That's how the right does it here today. I'm not going to spend any more time on it. Instead, I want to talk about something nice. I want to talk about the budget that the Government itself has presented. So the budget for the justice sector is just EUR 13.2 billion, which is an increase compared to last year's budget of SEK 700 million. kr. What we see is that we're getting a strengthening in criminal matters that's significant. It ensures that, during 2006 and 2007, with the proposal put forward here, we have set up 316 new settlements. This means that we can start by bringing down the queues that have evolved under the Bondevik administration, with the Right in the driver’s seat, and that we can also improve the quality of criminal services, so that in a number of areas – in terms of education, in terms of library services, in terms of prison health services – we get a number of new measures. 100 million is used. Health services in prison, we get 161 million. kr for education and training activities and 10,5 million. Library services. That's how we could still have that. We've been busy with this, also in SV. I have to say I'm glad we're getting that kind of lift, so everything isn't just about people being punished harder and zone any more, but they're going to be rehabilitated and come out again as useful people. That's the way we can also secure ourselves against reoccurrence crime, and over time make society safer. Then, in the case of the Police College, we get to strengthen the manning situation, so that you increase the recording from 360 to 432 students. You've got 105 million. kr granted for the completion of step 1, radio joint – emergency network. And the police, who got their funds considerably strengthened last year and the year before, get it carried on, and you get to make sure that compensation of employees is covered. So here, over a two-year period, with the new government, you have ensured both that the police are strengthened, and that the criminal service is there – two of the most important areas we face. So I want to point out another area that we had a lot of discussion about in the committee last year, and that is now in place. It's free legal aid. The Committee pointed out that the Free Legal Aid Office in Oslo had to be further operated so that the Agency did not risk closure. After all, previous government provided for a gradual degression, which in practice would mean that it would no longer be an office from 2008. What we have now, in an agreement with the Municipality of Oslo, is that we're going through $8 million. kr in operational equipment has an office which will remain. A number of employees in the media have clearly expressed their joy at this. Then we see that in parallel with that, we get the reinforcement of the Gate lawyer and a series of new legal aid measures, including a start-up aid project that might allow us to see activities related to free legal aid in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger in a short time. We hope to start activities also in Kristiansand, and not least in Tromsø. We want to be active in relation to that, and we want to stimulate it. We also want the student measures related to free legal assistance to be significantly strengthened, so that the most difficult, those who have the most difficulty, those who need help, those who are out on the street, can go straight in and get help from qualified lawyers without costing them anything, in order to get on with their lives. We see how we have managed to protect people with debt problems from excessive charges for forced collection and outsourcing. By reducing the legal fee for expenses and removing the additional fee for expenses, the savings for the debtor in such cases amount to NOK 2450. Many people will benefit from debt problems. This implies a reduction in revenue of about 230 million. kr. We've seen how the Right approach has been, that if you can draw money from the poorest, from those who have the most difficulty, we can help those who are a little further up the ladder, because that's who you see and hear in the media, not those who don't have enough resources to say from. That, of course, is not an approach we can accept. We need to support those who have the most difficulty – we need to be part of and lift in herds. It's a budget that we have reason to be proud of, but it's clear that it's a way forward. That means we're going to spend the rest of this magnification to ensure that the content of criminal justice is strengthened. We're going to help those who son, have the opportunity to handle themselves when they get out. Action should be taken in relation to the rest of society. Now we have new NAV offices in a number of places, and we need to see what can be done by collaborative projects there. It's a good budget. We record that the budget is so good that there are no alternative proposals for it. It is with pride that we are going to adopt this today, and we are ready to continue the fight for an even better budget in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e395	I note that the representative, Mr Ballo, says that the budget submitted is so good that there is no alternative. It is possible if the representative, Mr Ballo, goes a little more in himself, that the alternative could be the opposite, namely that it is so bad that we others will not be in the framework that lies there. But it's possible it's beyond the understanding of the representative that Ballo has. What I want to point out is: I have a Document No. 8-proposals submitted by the representatives of Inga Marte Thorkildsen, May Hansen and Heikki Holmås ‘to give the remaining parent temporary status as a single parent when the other parent is imprisoned for three months or more’. It was promoted by SV in the 2004-2005 session. During a line change last year, I asked the representative Ballo: Where is SV in this case? Then the representative, Ballo, said something like we've been in business too short, we need a longer time. Now the representative, Ballo, has got another year. How is this now perceived by the representative of Ballo?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e404	Until the last time: I did not realize that I have asked that question, so I do not think it is relevant to go into it. To the first issue: I think it is a rather wonderful approach. If you think that a budget is not good enough, if you think that this should have been a different priority, then the Progress Party's answer to that question is not to make any proposal at all. So we're going to say that because we can't deal with this budget, at least we're not going to do anything different. That is the practical consequence. Those who wonder if what I am saying here is correct, can only be present during voting later today, and then sit and listen intensely to the alternative proposal that the Progress Party is going to promote. There will be no proposal. I repeat: there will be no proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e413	I have noticed with increasing wonder how SV has become an insignificant tailhang of the Workers' Party in criminal policy, and that the party that so clearly stood up earlier and took the weakest party, now cannot support the proposal for regional Barna's house, cannot help to provide leadership for the revision of the Victims' Compensation Act in order to correct the injustices in it, nor can they agree to an obliging progress plan in order to organise the Court of Justice for hearing-impaired persons. My question to Olav Gunnar Ballo is whether it is that SV no longer has its own political will, or what is the explanation that these proposals cannot be supported. And then I also think he should explain why SV can go against a proposal in the church, education and research committee from the opposition to facilitate research on the training needs of adult prisoners. Or is it that a red-green principle has now been introduced that one should disagree for the sake of disagreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e422	One thing I'm very fond of, is that Elisabeth Aspaker has repeatedly come into this with Barna's house. So the proposal on Barna's house is a Document No. 8 proposals from the SV and the Workers' Party, which were so good that while the Right has initially not taken any initiative to realize Barna's house, they are now on the barricades that the proposal must be implemented as quickly as possible. And then you ask, is it that SV has now become a tailhang after we have had an impact on the proposal, and that we are now going to realize it in 2007? I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat it: I'm really glad that it's now become a competition where it's about making it with the most possible house of Barna. What could be better for a party that has come into position than for the opposition to jump after and compete for the implementation of our proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e431	First, in the case of the Free Legal Aid Office in Oslo, we have to state that there is, after all, the Government that has messed it up. The city council had to intervene. Fortunately, we have now got it sorted out in connection with next year's budget. But here the government must take its responsibility for that it has become like it has, with all the mess that was in advance. In the majority position, it is said that you want to increase your admission to the high school, so that there will be 432 students next year. This will probably also mean that in the long term, it is necessary to increase the appropriations for the police to a considerable extent, so that these students also have a job to do. My question is, how does the representative, Ballo, think in terms of criminal justice and the funding to the police in the years to come? Are we now on that balance between the two units that we should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e438	First of all, I would like to say that I am happy that it is people with a main subject in history who also write the political history, and not the Christian People's Party. The production related to that office in Oslo was about as far from the truth as you can get. Without the initiative of the Government and the government parties, that matter had not been settled. Let's just establish that. As far as the second is concerned, it is quite clear that in order to develop further a content in the settlement of a number of prisoners, this is an important and significant step in the right direction, but it will be followed up in the coming years. We also see major challenges within the police — which we have addressed. We addressed this in connection with the budget for the current year, but in close cooperation not least with the Police Joint Union. So I am convinced that we will manage in a number of areas both to strengthen the education of the police – the same is true in criminal matters – and to implement measures not least related to police protection, such as police. safety equipment, which we are in the process of doing. Wait and see. It's going to be a great budget in 2008, to which I once again believe that the Christian People's Party can give its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e449	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e452	I don't know who's best at writing the story. I'm not quite sure if it's the true story of the representative Ballo. The truth is at least that without a pressure from the opposition and a decision in Oslo City Council, I hardly think the appropriations that have now come into place had come into place. So just two words: since the Christian People's Party is not in the Judicial Committee, and there is a sort of technical debate about whether there would have been any budget if the Progress Party and the Right had ruled, it must be allowed to show that the parties are presenting alternative budgets in the financial position. Had the Advance Party or the Right had a majority there, or – even better – had the Christian People's Party had a majority in the Storting and had a financial position in line with that, it would have been a very good budget that we had adopted later today. The majority today adopts a relatively tight budget for justice for 2007. The police budget suggests that today's activity can be continued. However, in meeting different representatives of different sectors in the field of justice, many claim that activity could be reduced in 2007. In any case, we must hope that the operative police work will not be harmed. The transfers to criminal services are also well marketed, I would say. In reality, we are probably talking about 68 new settlements in addition to what has been adopted in the past. This may indicate that the Stoltenberg Government is largely following in the footsteps of the Bondevik II Government when the changes in the area of justice are so few. We see a tearing trend in the crime scene, so a budget must take account of the changes that are taking place. There is little doubt that there is still a need for increased efforts to combat increasingly new and more serious forms of crime. In the Christian People's Party, we are positive that the admission to the Police College will be increased to 432 students next year. Not least is required because many people in the building now lose their pensions. But it also presupposes that the government considers a commitment to the police in the years to come, so that these students get a job to go to. We need more policemen – if we compare ourselves to Sweden and Denmark, we are a bit behind – and we need, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a thorough assessment of whether police training should be more differentiated in order to meet the various needs of the police in a better way than today. I would like to challenge the Council of State if he sees a need in that way. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we increase the appropriations for the police by a total of 25 million. kr. These funds are earmarked for efforts against organised crime and the rest of the world. I am pleased – like the chairman of the committee – with the positive results that are now being made visible. Oslo is overrepresented in crime statistics, and here we also have more drug use among young people than in the country. In addition, the capital has particularly major challenges related to trafficking in human beings, organised prostitution and infirmity. This requires that the framework conditions of Oslo Police District match their particular challenges. In our budget, we're increasing the appropriations by 5 million. kr to strengthen this work. We are very pleased that a separate group responsible for outreach and trust building activities in the prostitution environment has now been established. I believe that this group will play an important preventive role and could also make a greater contribution to criminal prosecution against the hallucinogens and other criminals. Several have mentioned this with free legal aid, so I will not go further into it. We also welcome the fact that the legal certainty of the victims of trafficking in human beings and rape is increasing through the positive changes that take place in the free legal aid system. We in the Christian People's Party are committed to improving the situation of prisoners' children, and have set aside 2 million in our alternative budget. kr to create a prisoner's child resource centre. During the examination of the budget by the Financial Committee, the Christian People's Party agreed with the Government Parties to increase the framework for the Justice budget by 1 million. kr to strengthen the work for this particular group. We look forward to constructive conversations to see how we can best use these funds. Finally, I would like to state that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals. 1 to 6 in the vote, in addition to the two proposals that will be put forward by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e483	I record with interest and joy that there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party on a number of issues raised by the representative Syversen, both in terms of recrimination and the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking. I look forward to working more closely on these matters. I want to ask the representative Syversen how he views the draft budget of the Right and the Christian People's Party both in terms of the proposed cuts in relation to poverty, which is an important cause of crime, in terms of cuts in aid, which will lead to more insecurity and probably also weaken Norwegian security, and also in terms of other progress proposals, such as cut-offs in alcohol taxes. What consequences will this have for crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e491	To the extent that I can please the other representatives in this room, I would like to. With regard to the Right's alternative budget, and I believe that the representative also considered the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have different views in some areas. At the same time, in the Bondevik II government, we showed that it was fully possible to cooperate constructively in government – with the Progress Party in opposition, but as part of budgetary cooperation – and get to actions that were not at the expense of prevention activities, and pursue an alcohol policy and an aid policy that was consistent with the views of the Christian People's Party. I guess the important thing here is what we get in common. Then I fully agree that we sometimes have some different starting points, but it probably also applies in relation to the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e500	I have looked at the Christian People's Party's draft budget, which is called 'Another Dance'. I think this is a good proposal – now I am talking about the justice sector. It's also very similar to what the government has proposed. But there is one area I would like to draw up, because I see that there is a call for a strengthening of measures in the field of criminal justice. Will the Christian People's Party be involved in supporting the government parties in the fight not only for more people to be able to zone, and for some to zone longer, but actually for the content of the compensation, that we ensure the quality of better health services? The Christian People's Party also mentioned that many have major drug problems, and we should fill their lives with content that reduces the risk of relapse. Will the Christian People's Party be involved and give priority to this so that as much as possible in this big deal – we cannot take for granted that the Right Party and the Advance Party do so – are involved in this process in order to strengthen these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e507	In fact, I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party are also interested in criminal matters which ensure that new criminal acts are carried out as little as possible. I can answer an unconditional yes to the fact that the Christian People's Party will participate in all good suggestions. We will also contribute ourselves, as our alternative budget shows, to good criminal care. When the Bondevik I government took over, they had been waiting a very long time to get a message about the contents of the criminal justice system. So it was the Bondevik I government that came forward, and as far as I know, it is the message, which had a broad upturn here in the Stortinget, which is still quite a leader in the work done in this field. But it may now be time to take new initiatives to strengthen criminal justice — and not least the content — in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e514	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e517	I want to start by saying that this is a good budget, which indicates that the government parties are on the right track to honour the promises that have been made through the government statement. I particularly want to point out the prevention perspective, as I think the Justice budget – and also the general government budget – is drawing up, and that is important for this sector. The urban economy, the labour market, the rehabilitation of prisoners, the provision of care, the improvement of the interaction of public services, and better integration policies are being sought, among other things. All of this will help to reduce the problems; it will include and create mechanisms that will prevent problems from arising in the first place. And that has to be the best criminal policy and the best justice policy, that you don't have to intervene afterwards with repairs, and that's a perspective that I'm very happy that we have. It is well possible that things can be done better in some areas, but this is a continuous work and a work that we will of course continue to do. This is important to emphasize, because the perspective is very different from the angle of incidence chosen by the Progress Party. The Progress Party representative spoke about more police, more courts and more prisons. There are countries that have opted for that strategy, and in all respects it is my claim that Norwegian criminal policy, Norwegian judicial policy, appears to be an unconditional success in relation to such a strategy, regardless of the basis on which one compares it. We have less crime, we have a smaller proportion of the population in prison, we have lower costs associated with this, and we have less social inequalities. I want to say a little bit about what's important to the Center Party, and which will be high priority for us in the future. In the case of reduced cows, 316 places are now delivered this year and next year. Then Halden will be in prison in 2009, with a further 251 places. A winding-up of the payroll queue will release resources for carrying out police work. It will be an important preventive measure, and it will be important to strengthen the general perception of the people. We're going to follow this up in the future, and it's important for us that we keep the progress in terms of targets. This is the case with the police – enough police and visible police. We are pleased with the strengthening of the number of police students, and of course we support what has been said, the broad consensus it is, about a visible police force. For the Central Party, it is also important that visible police and the police present not only concern Oslo and the larger cities. It is important that we have a visible and present police force throughout the country. We are therefore particularly going to follow up on the recruitment and presence of the lenner's seat outside the country. Then we are pleased with the strengthening of the rescue services – Bodø this year and Banak last year. These are important measures. There's a part here that's been involved in alcohol and alcohol related to justice. There is a sign in time that alcohol consumption is increasing, especially among young people. Alcohol-related harm is increasing and, of course, problems related to tranquillity and order in relation to alcohol abuse. We in the Central Party have noticed the signals that the Minister of Justice has made in relation to the call for a restrictive municipal Russian policy. We share those opinions far along the way. We think it's a wrong way to go liberalizing, increasing access and lowering prices, because we're sure that increased access will lead to even greater problems. Should the Minister of Justice take the initiative in introducing stricter and more restrictive alcohol legislation, the Senter Party will be interested in following it up. The problem of trafficking is also going to follow up. What is the situation in the capital is, in our opinion, not good. We're going to follow developments closely, and we're not, for our part, rejecting the possible criminalisation of whores.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e538	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e541	I record that the representative Borten Moe is concerned about alcohol and alcohol abuse, and here I think we can agree, even though the approach may be somewhat different. I have registered that one of the ministers of the current government has said that each municipality should receive a wine monopoly. Is it true that if alcohol is legally traded in a state sale, it does not lead to problems, but if you go out to a legal outlet and drink, does it lead to problems? Is the world that simple, or is it such that state alcohol sales also lead to alcohol problems and violence? Is it reasonable then for the Government to go in so that each municipality will have its own wine monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e548	Equal access to alcohol all over the country I think is all right. But it's not the same as being open access, and it's going to be a fair access, as the Progress Party puts up. Wide research shows that there is a major link between price, access and use. I claim that much of the alcohol we see now tends against abuse. There are major problems related to calm and order, and there are major problems associated with alcohol-related harm and, above all, violence. I therefore find it strange that the Progress Party does not take the issues inwards at all, but says that this is a legal drug, and that you want to open up even more use and consequently even bigger problems in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e555	The representative Borten Moe was concerned about how many new places this government has created. At the same time, it is a reality that crime is becoming increasingly serious. The government has added up to a line where you have very one-sided rates in open places, and you're also very liberal in giving previous releases. Does the representative Mr Borten Moe and the Central Party believe that this is a reassuring criminal policy? Doesn't the Center Party see what kind of signals it sends out when you're constantly using milder reconciliations, and that it can help undermine the preventative effect of punishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e562	If, with milder reconciliation, you mean better reconciliation in the form of more education, more rehabilitation and a greater focus on repatriation to society, I disagree with Aspaker. On the contrary, I think it is important to prevent relapses and to reduce the total crime in Norway. I think reducing and removing cows is perhaps the most important thing we can do in relation to general justice and crime prevention. A liberal policy of reconciliation and imprisonment combined with rapid demise and a quick settlement is a line that we put ourselves behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e567	The representative Away Moe was about trafficking. On Tuesday, there was an interpellation debate about assault, prostitution and trafficking, but that was the case with men. In Oslo, a dedicated group shall be set up to conduct outreach and confidence-building activities. Can the Away Moe say anything about how the Center Party and the Government see that you're going to get in touch with the male prostitutes and trafficking victims? The police, UDI and the entire organization field say that this is very difficult to know about, this is difficult to see, and it's hard to see. First of all, it's about not bothering to care, looking for, finding, researching or including some of these. How does the Borten Moe see that the Government is going to change the basics that you probably encounter, which makes this not worth the paper it's written on?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e577	Unfortunately, I can't tell you that. But I share the reality that trafficking also includes men, and that of course we have challenges in this area. But when it comes to how we're going to solve this, I don't have the knowledge to answer it over the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e585	I expect that otherwise the justice department would celebrate with a coffee pot with cream when the digital emergency network came into place – not because it concerns this budget, but because it is a heavy and important investment that has to do with all Norwegian emergency facilities. Anyone who has followed the long march through the Sinai desert – to use a visual language – to find a water hole will enjoy it. I am happy about it, and I think everyone in the room should be glad that you have now announced that you have chosen a tenderer. It's important. It is, to say it dry, approx. 80 pst. by a frigate, so it has to be counted to be a wise investment. I'm starting with this point because I think some of the strategic challenges of a justice budget are to be able to make investments that the budget framework technically leaves little room for. This applies not least on the data side, for example: throughout the criminal chain, for the police, and not least in order to get through the excellent reform of disputes to simplify the civil process in Norway. I just want to mark it, because I think it's very important to talk about it. I haven't yet found the answer to how to do something to find such an investment solution, but I want to mention it because it applies to everyone. Much of the trust in criminal justice lies in its perceived proximity to people. This is especially the case with the police. The Norwegian police have had and still have outstanding confidence because of this. a wide contact surface. That's why it's good that, through several budgets, there's now been a escalation of admission to the Police College – from 240 to 290, to 360, and now to 432. But it requires that we have an overall police crewing plan, both on the police and on the civilian side in the years to come. This is a prerequisite for us not to believe that living people can be replaced by technical monitoring. We simply have a choice with the technical monitoring. There is no picture that is clearer about what people mean than what came in the first post from the committee leader in connection with the patrolling police at Karl Johan. Patrol police at Karl Johan introduced social norms into a normless room, both in relation to aggressive beggars, sellers and prostitutes. The absence was visible, the presence was also visible, the effect and the conclusion must be completely, completely obvious. The big question of principle is, of course, how to raise this in the years to come. The left has made suggestions here in the hall to get such a plan, it had a broad agreement. We expect to get it after the police reform is now being evaluated. With regard to the budgets, we have found it necessary in the budget that has fallen in the past to propose strengthening the police generally on a national basis – but also in Oslo to combat organised crime and gangs. Finding results in thread is a reason to be very happy. It requires a wise interaction with municipal bodies, which I know is present. The left has been concerned about the operating resources of the courts. We have also proposed them increased in our alternative budget – there is a budget that does not exist here. As far as compensation is concerned, any government council will be happy on my part, except that I am concerned on behalf of the government council because he lacks some closed settlements. I'm worried that you can't nail a simple blank in the salt. We had empty in Halden long before we got the money to build. Having an empty is a good starting point for building. I think the 100-125 places that are there, any government council, including the sitting, will be celibate to get. I'm going to be able to push here by expressing myself this way. I think it's a lot of good that can happen by interacting with civil society and alternative ways to zone. That's a lot of good that's been done about it. But this is part of what's missing. With regard to the proposals here today, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 to 4 from the Progress Party and the Right. We are also voting in favour of proposal No. 5 from the same grouping and No 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 on looking at a police operating unit and the location of it, I have a lot of sympathy for it, but I'm not prepared to vote for it. I feel that I need to have much better and broader knowledge. As regards proposal No: 8 from the Right, we believe in principle that DNA analyses for legal certainty are part of public responsibility. When I finally, on behalf of the Left, promote two proposals on organized crime, it's because of the insight I have from the time I was involved in reorganizing Kripos. I just want Kripos not to lack people when it comes to carrying out missions that go on serious organized crime. I'm also very concerned about looking at an old proposal, whether you might also need regional testing units. It can't be that overtime, a working time or a county limit simply interrupts serious issues because we haven't organized ourselves well enough. I am pleased that these proposals have been so far endorsed by the opposition here in the Chamber. With these words, I address the two proposals that have been promoted by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e608	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e613	Something that lay my heart very close when you sat by the rudder was guarded. The sun was watched with good help from you and your government. So a little bit of a rental question: is it with great joy you see that the red-green government has been put on hold on Banak, and that there is now coming in Bodø during this year or next year? Another issue concerns alcohol policy and crime. Instead, I wanted to give the Advance Party the brilliance to think of healing when they strengthen the police with $1 billion and at the same time have full play in the alcohol policy. Does the representative of Dørum see the connection between crime and crime, and that it will be impossible to sit in a government with a party that is just enough willing to pay for more crime, but that will have a completely different alcohol policy than that of the restrictive line followed by the previous government and followed by the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e620	The President would remind the replicator that you should contact the President when you speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e623	I feel correctly accused. Of course I am pleased with any positive action. There are measures I would fight for myself, and any Minister of Justice who is able to win out on Thorbjørnsrud and the glory that comes to ensure such good action deserves a great deal of applause and has my sympathy. We now need Ørland and Rygge – it is a call for later. In the case of alcohol, the Left has been involved in a wide-ranging alcohol policy compromise in Oslo. We have also entered for the police to check the door guards. I'm concerned that we can reach, for example, It is felt that working time regulations in the police force lead to a few nights a week perhaps getting a little fewer people on guard than what we have had in the past. My background is not leakage from the system; there are migrations in living life. When you've been walking like this for 13 years, you get to know a lot. There's good people out there, but there's enough people to mess up the youth -- those of us who've seen smart cops with black belts in karate stand safe and loose youth one way and the other, know that such people need more of us to get to what the representative and I agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e632	It has been claimed during the debate here by the representative, Mr Ballo, that the last draft budget by Mr Bondevik II contained a cut in relation to the Free Legal Aid Office in Oslo. Since the representative Dørum then had the formal responsibility as Minister of Justice, can he confirm, if necessary, that this was the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e637	The question is about a budget that had been adopted under another government. That's chapter 470, entry 72 we're talking about. I am not aware that I had plans to wind this up inside my head. If the representative asked me if I had been imaginative about finding $4-6 million. kr within the overall framework of the Ministry of Justice's budget, I can trust the representative that I would have it. Everyone who listens to it knows that I have that insight. I would never have done that, and I am very pleased that there has now been an agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Municipality of Oslo. Part of that consensus is due to a settlement created in budgetary terms between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the City Council parties in Oslo. However, there is also reason to praise the Workers' Party and the SV locally, who helped to ensure a spice layer that would ensure this important measure. If the representative Ballo thinks he knows about me, it's pure science fiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e644	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e647	I think it might be useful to start by saying that we still have major challenges in the justice sector. This is a constructive starting point for looking at the current resource needs of the whole sector. At the same time, I'd like to give honor, not only to the present government, but also to previous governments, because that's not all that goes in the wrong direction. We have relatively good figures on some types of crime that actually show a decline in the crime scene. In terms of gross criminal acts, up to the point of killing, we see figures that give cause for satisfaction, but also give reason to trust the measures that have already been established and that it is useful to pursue an active justice policy. This is not a political area where the measures proposed by the politicians, the ministry and other actors are just becoming completely powerless. Here we have the opportunity to do something, and that's what makes it so stimulating in relation to, among other things. the current budgetary debate. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to give honor, great honor – follow up on what the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen also said in his speech – to all the actors out there who stand in this crime scene every single day, whether it is a police servant or an employee in the criminal service who has experienced working in relation to a covering that is quite so tight over the last year, and who, despite this, is doing what can be done to get people to turn around, so that they do not commit new criminal acts. I would also like to pay tribute to my own department and to my own staff in the department, who have worked for many years under quite pressing conditions in relation to cows in the courts, police, and criminal services, and who, in my opinion, do good work. If we look at the results of the police in Norway, we see that in recent years we have had a positive development in resolving more crime. We'll be happy for that – that's good. The image created in the media is often somewhat different. In honor of the police, in honor of those who administer the police action – we are able to get the percentage of information. You can build up the remains so that you're almost leftover in police Norway now. It is also possible to put in place investments in equipment, including: Weapon, which makes it possible for one to get very far in being adequately equipped during this year. We hope and have the ambition that the protective equipment will be put in place in the next year and subsequent years, and that significant parts of the need for transport equipment in the Norwegian police force will also be met. When we look at police proceedings, we see that it is now largely in all police districts within the framework figures and targets set by the former government, which the Stortinget concluded. Not only in the case of younger offenders, who we were in the city, but also in the case of violent acts and crimes solved, we have good figures in terms of this going faster than it has done in the past. I'm not saying this as an argument that everything succeeds for the current government, but I think that the joint effort that has actually been made shows that it benefits. I think it is important that this picture of the fight against crime is also presented in Norway. I think it must also be behind when we have to explain to our foreign colleagues when we meet them, either in the Schengen context or in other international forums, why the crime scene is actually as positive as it is in Norway. Also the courts I want to give great honor. We have had a decline in proceedings at the courts. In fact, a lot of hardworking thingies are now able to keep away from them in view of the rather tight frameworks that have been given. We have challenges in the area of law enforcement, which we are now going to address. But I hope that we have a criminal justice system that, as far as the pace is concerned, will contribute to the implementation of the measures that the Government will propose in addition. So to the crime scene, it's quite obvious that we have great challenges, despite the fact that process and remains are beginning to get started. I would particularly like to mention the fight against organised and economic crime. It was not for nothing that the government, as its very first government, chose to strengthen the Whitewashing Unit at the Økokrim here in Oslo. But there is also a basis for pointing out that we now have to sit calmly in the boat in many ways, considering much of the prevention work done in terms of financial crime and organised crime. The government cannot at all agree to enter such a line as this. In the case of significant budget cuts, the party makes closer to 10 pst. in the expenditure chapters of the customs and tax havens, the tax haven and the central collection centre of the State. It would just go beyond the possibility of being able to detect seriously organised internationally-related crime that goes beyond borders and that uses economic mechanisms that we need to have financial expertise to combat. To begin with, canceling over 500 people in the customs office today, if we were to follow the proposals of the Progress Party, or over 700 people out in the tax department, is a line that the Government does not want to put on. It's a line that we want to warn very strongly against. It would be a setback in the fight against economic crime and also the organised crime. The government also believes it is important to make the efforts that are now being made in connection with the integration of our new countrymen. We can't help supporting the Progress Party in a cut of nearly 900 million. kr, proposed by them. It would have major adverse effects on the integration of particularly younger immigrants, and again have a bearing on the sector we are debating today. Several representatives have raised the issue of drug policy. It is absolutely essential that we be able to maintain the elements of which there has been a broad cross-political agreement, whether it be the wine monopoly, fees that must be at a certain level, or a restrictive policy. The fact that the Progress Party is now proposing significant improvements in the alcohol policy, which could lead to an increase in the crime of violence, not only in the thousands of homes but also in the cities, is a situation that I would strongly warn against. There is a situation that would probably require far more police resources than even the Progress Party allows to propose in this debate. That's why it's important that we have had such a far-reaching perspective in this debate on justice policy, because at the moment we're staring at it blindly and saying that this is about how much we're going to grant the police, or how many places the government can afford, we've probably lost. The government also believes that it is vital that in the next few years, including in the current year, we be strengthened in our efforts to tackle what threatens us from extreme groupings. I will then use this budget debate to go a little further than the former governments have done in describing the police security service. The security service of the police has been significantly strengthened in recent years, both in terms of budget and staff. The central unit of the Police Security Service has a budget of more than 250 million in the current year. kr. I find reason to publish that number. We believe that transparency and democratic assessments about the precisely budgetary situation in the PST are important, and that is what has been done. In addition, compensation of employees is paid to the local PST units in the police districts. The 2007 budget of the police security service has not yet been clarified. It'll be done from our side. I am prepared, in an appropriate form, to publish the 2007 budget allocated to the service, so that it can also be surrounded by democratic discussion and necessary debate, which I believe could also help to strengthen the efforts made by the PST. It is not right, as is said by both political actors and media actors, that the PST will have its budget cut. The government has no ambitions about it. We have ambitions about the opposite. As early as the current year, there will be a strengthening of the PST, in particular with a view to further investment. I found reason to say that. So finally, there are many debates going on that are about to make the police stronger and more effective. The debates are very important. The situation in Oslo absolutely calls for a more active police force, a better organized police force and a police force that sees solutions, perhaps in other fields than what has been done in the past. I would strongly warn against linking the effectiveness assessment of police efforts with the kind of appropriations they receive. I remember, among other things, that police inspector Iver Stensrud said in an interview in a police newspaper the other day: I know it is not politically correct to say this, but I am satisfied with 6 million. kr. We can do a lot of work for that. The amount does not go to wages and salaries, but covers additional costs that the joint effort will now entail in 2006. What he's really saying is that much of the effort against recriminalism is about coordinating the work better, cooperating with neighbouring districts and thinking in new ways to crack a very serious form of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e676	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e679	Let me start by giving the Council of State credit for his comments and comments on PST. I think that was useful, and I think it was neat. That's what he's supposed to be for. At the same time, I want to draw attention to another challenge that the Council of State has, and that is the occupancy rate in Norwegian prisons connected to custody sites. I guess it's also a challenge that some people who are called into atoning don't respond, and that there is therefore a call for them via the police. After what I have reason to believe, it's about approx. 500 people who have not met. Can the State Council assure me and the Stortinget that the police are using the necessary resources to apprehend these persons and ensure that they end up in a place where they will actually comply with their judgment, namely in prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e686	I can assure you that we are doing what we can to ensure that those who are called into atoning meet. It is as the representative now points out, absolutely essential to get access to those to enter and zone, in order to terminate the reconciliation queue. It is a big problem that so many have to be called up. Sometimes it's too many, and sometimes it's too few. There are several elements to this, even beyond the efforts of the police, but it is to be assessed by the Government – as I have notified the Stortinget of earlier – whether to make it punishable not to meet as a proponent, just to put some more power behind the demand in relation to the call to take place. I have seen in the course of the time we've been working on reconciliation queues that logistics is very important – to make maximum use of the capacity – sail if it gives us great challenges as to just having places available for custody. But I am glad that the solstice has at least shown a downward trend in the last few months, and I hope that we can get a bit easier after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e693	I would also like to start by saying that I am pleased with the Council's signals on greater transparency related to the PST. I guess it is that it must be said that today we have a threat picture that, to the greatest extent, also involves the police, and I think it is right that the Justice Committee can appropriately go deeper into that kind of issue. So to my question about the settlement of the settlement queue, and the fact that the Council of State has made it its first priority: the goal is therefore that the queue should be gone in 2009, but the question I'm travelling, is whether the goal is to allocate the means. Eating may mean that the strategy of the Council of State is that as little as possible to be sentenced to prison, as much as possible to be a zone in open prisons, and as much as possible to be tested out of prison. Does the Minister of Justice think that such developments provide society with the protection provided by the courts in their criminal investigations? Does the Minister of Justice not see that there is in principle concern that the punishment is challenged and eroded by widespread use of parole and the use of open spaces instead of closed spaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e700	I have to say, with all due respect for the questioner, that I am surprised that the Right has chosen to put such premises into the debate today, because many of the premises are wrong. It's still the way we're going to have people in closed prisons. It's still the way we're going to use the open settlements that the Right agreed to establish in their reign, for the termination of the settlement queue, and that's still so that almost 70 pst. of those who are queueers, have a judge of less than 90 days. Many of them can actually nice zone in some more open conditions. It is, in my opinion, a long way to prefer instead of leaving them in line. When the right was in government, the queue was up to 2,700, and something higher too. I think that's why it's better that they actually come in to atonement than that they wander around in the open rooms. Nor is it as the Right now suggests, that we have a somewhat more liberal practice of parole than what the Right had when they were in government. We follow exactly the same rules and have also signaled to Stortinget that we do not intend to expand that system more liberally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e707	There are two things I would like to discuss with the Council of State. The first is linked to police training: does the Council of State see, in the light of the ever-increasing need for police action, the need for more differentiated training of police officers and women than what we have today? Then the Council of State was generous with praise for the institutions he manages. It's probably a praise that's justified, and it also includes his own department, I should think. There I think I have reason to say that I can fully support him, the other I'm not quite sure to the same extent. The council said he also had a tight budget. If the Council of State had had more funds at its disposal — based on the entire sector he represents — what would he have prioritised increasing the appropriations for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e718	When it comes to becoming a government councillor and getting into the government apparatus, I have to say that it offers many surprises. One of the very positive surprises I've met is my own office. I want to express that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e723	It's very nice to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e728	When the representative of Syversen challenges me in terms of police training, I have to say that I share much of the syversen's opinion. I think there is a need for a more differentiated education. In which form it will come, we'll get back to. So to the question of what I would bet on if I had had more money. This is about my night dreams, but I have to say that I think the Christian People's Party made a very important contribution to the budget negotiations now, where it was given 1 million. kr extra – a very important additional million – for the children affected by parents in prison. It's a group of kids that I think it focuses too little on. To the extent that I can allow myself to make Jon Lilletun's words my own, I would say that a good budget has become much better, and that it is especially on the basis of the aid we received from the Christian People's Party, by suggesting that they give 1 million. extra precisely to these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e735	First to the Council of State: it's good that we have some nice surprises in common. So until the Council of State did as far as the police security service is concerned. I think that was quite right, but I can't help noticing the figure that is now being mentioned by the Council of State, and the number that passed for the Intelligence Service in connection with the Ministry of Defence's budget. I say no more, but I would like the Council of State to be happy to ensure that we get a security service that is good. And I would like to add that I agree with what the Council of State has said earlier, that perhaps the most important terrorist prevention we can have is an intelligent and wise integration policy. We are now living at a time when we get working time regulations/work environment regulations that I have the impression of ‘eating up’ policemen in turns in a way that is almost alarming. It increases the need for people, and it threatens very much the visibility and presence of policemen, as I know that the Council of State, myself and the Left have a common desire. My question is this: what does the Council of State think about this dilemma, where the working time regulations phase people out, while at the same time people are needed to solve problems in living society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e744	I share the representative's view that this is a major challenge for us. This is a particularly big challenge in relation to the situation of the police. An extra amount of crew is required to maintain a full-time watch, an eight-nine people, well, to cover up a whole day. So here we have big challenges. But that is also part of the basis that the Government now felt that it was absolutely necessary to strengthen the admission to the Police College. Not only do we look at pension developments, the departure of the police and the recruitment challenge, but we also want to achieve our goal of getting more and more effective police services out there, we depend on training more people. At the same time, we are following up what is being debated here in the Storting on the police mission, that we must come back with an overall plan in relation to how we are to develop the manning situation in Police Norway. That's where this moment must also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e750	The Council of State was in its speech a brief visit to the Progress Party and that we want to cut down on customs duties and tax rates. That's quite clear, because we can't quite see the purpose of having a lot of people standing on the border to take retired people who are on some trade, or so-called 'harrying' that some people love to call it. If the Grand Mountains go in and look at what the other countries have done, he will see that they have greatly reduced the number of people standing on the borders. Rather, they take and use these people to cooperate across borders, either with Europol or Interpol, while among other things we do. only has one man in each of these places, as well as that at Gardermoen's passport control at all is not connected to Interpol. Does the Council of State not think that it would have been a better idea to cooperate more closely across borders and strengthen that effort, instead of standing on the border and taking a poor pensioner?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e757	I have to say that this is a signed picture of how the border control is actually – with all due respect to report. If it is really the case that the Progress Party wants to turn a lot of efforts, both in the tax system and in the customs system, into international cooperation, which I believe is absolutely crucial – I have been in Brussels two days now, in the Schengen cooperation, where we see how important it is that border controls are actually there, and where we have an active not only customs but also tax system – it would be completely wrong to cut these posts now. The Progress Party does not say that these posts should now be transferred to international companies, and be there free of charge, the Progress Party says that they should be cancelled. What is the problem with the proposals of the Progress Party is that 500 posts are taken from the customs office. There won't be any more international activity by resigning people. I can agree that we can look at the restructuring of the customs and tax system, but that we were going to start cancelling people to such an extent would be shooting sails in the leg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e762	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e765	The party to the proceedings has registered that the courts are unable to comply with the time limits imposed on them by the Stortinget. Unfortunately, the balances of the courts are too high. The low level of achievement of the time limit is also due to the fact that there is a large stock of old cases. In order to achieve the objectives of the procedure, it is necessary to reduce the stocks of the old cases, so that the pending cases do not remain in line for several months before they are dealt with. Of course, we must also show that it varies from district to district. In some places, you're doing a good job of reducing the old leftovers. Oslo District Court is a good example of what can be done with a targeted effort. This court is now up-to-date on the criminal side. The Progress Party believes that the courts are currently underfunded and need a raise in appropriations to get up-to-date across the country. The old cases should have been processed for the longest time, so that new cases were dealt with quickly. In this way, the problem of waiting and some new crimes was avoided in the meantime. It's not just money. One must also focus on how to streamline justice in Norway. This may include, inter alia: are made through the use of new technologies such as videoconferencing equipment and by simplifying some processes. The proposal of the Progress Party in Document No. 8:02 in 2004–2005, among others as an objective to improve the effectiveness of the courts by placing the jurisdiction of exclusive courts, such as today in confession cases, in all cases with a criminal framework of less than two years. The Party of Progress will, if necessary, resume its proposal during this period. Another important means of combating crime is the establishment of own rapid courts for young people, with a view to preventing a potentially comprehensive and ongoing criminal career. Today, unfortunately, many people are waiting and waiting to settle up, and in the meantime, unfortunately some of these young people are committing new criminal acts. It has become so that if you commit one or many crimes today, the penalty is largely the same. This is why it is important for young people to be quickly brought to justice and set up before a longer career. Another element is the completion of the new construction and the efficiency of the rights of property. In this connection, I would like to point out that we believe that the organisation of the courts for hearing impaired persons is going too slowly. Of course, in the new halls this is done, but still many are not organized. This can be done at a reasonable price, and it should actually be taken together during a two-year period, and not as today, with only two halls per year. We expect here a quick feedback on when this is planned to be completed. Another thing I would like to point out is that I am very pleased that Gjøvik District has now finally come in, and that it will be completed around the turn of the year 2007-2008. Another moment that I want to mention here is a note that the Progress Party had about converting the Landheim premises on Skreia in East Toten into prison. It's a shame the other parties haven't joined this note, but they can do it here today if they're interested in it. It is in the eastern region that the need for increased prison capacity is greatest. Skreia prisons can be considered in the context of Gjøvik and Hamar prisons, which start to grow up over the years and are heavy – either in cooperation or in a co-location in Skreia. The need for custody places is great. There is also a shortage in the eastern region, and Gjøvik and Hamar can be assessed in this context. Skreia prison will also be centrally located in the eastern part of the country and then near the Gardermoen. Then I want to continue a little bit on the line I had, because I see that I have some time left. I fully agree with the Council of State that we should strengthen cooperation in Interpol and Europol, etc. That's what we've been saying in the Progress Party all along, that it's coming into cooperation with other countries that we can get the biggest win. I was at a meeting in Denmark, and they soon don't have customs officers at the borders again. They're working with other countries. That's how they deal with international crime, and that's how they get the backers – instead of standing at all the border stations to take a small bottle of booze or a few kilos of meat. That's where the difference lies between the Advance Party and the Workers Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e791	First of all, I would like to offer some commendation to the Council of State, which publicly takes most of the day-to-day issues seriously and promises action in the future, not least on the police's behalf. Most of the policy declarations in the budget externalities are targets that most of us can end up with. The challenge for the police, however, is that one priority signal beats the other, and the individual police district starts to wonder if we've at all got the reality out of the staging room, department or police directorate. For the increased demands met by the police, they are well known, but not free of charge. This police budget is not a reinforcement, no matter how many times you say it, nor is it a break from all the conditions that the government council has promised to do on behalf of the government. In the evaluation of the police reform, it must be at the bottom and form the starting point for the inter-political rapprochement plan that we should aim to adopt at that time. In view of the fact that this is the most important governance document in the justice sector, I intend to ask some specific questions to the Council of State. A unanimous committee states that the work undertaken against recriminal crime in the Oslo area is an example of good cross-border interaction. Now the newspaper has said that it is partly already today. But I want to repeat the question I asked the representative, Bjørnflaten, about how this continuation should happen in concrete terms. Is it provided that the continuation shall take place within the limits such as: Oslo has been allocated to the budget, or is there any idea that the tens of millions this will represent on an annual basis are to be added as fresh funds that do not go at the expense of other activities in Oslo? That issue is quite topical, not least in view of the fact that the Oslo police are now experiencing some significant recruitment problems, and it is a new challenge that we have seen first and foremost in other parts of the country. The problem in Oslo is that the motivation to apply for a job here is less than in many years, and in some police stations a lot of jobs are available. From the point of view of the criminals, this is a dream. If we lose in Oslo, we lose in the rest of the country. What concrete measures in addition to increasing the number of classes at the Police College have been envisaged in relation to tackling the recruitment problems in Oslo. The weighting industry has been re-examined. It has not been dealt with in the budget. I have two concrete questions about that. Will the Council of State ensure that the work to this end is directly linked to the ongoing work to combat other organised crime and ensure that the positions to be filled are central to the POD, in order to ensure that this is done effectively? I have also just been informed that the police reserve will not be used during the peace price distribution this year. This follows, as the Right sees it, up the haunting activity that we saw in relation to the silence of last year's budget. These values have not been found to carry out exercises and assignments as before, and there is no clarification in the budget for next year. The question is: does the government simply plan to put down the police reserve? Many tasks can be solved by civil servants for a cheaper money, but the most important thing is that police officers are primarily used for what they are trained for. Will the Government provide a review with a view to increasing the use of civil servants where it is appropriate and also take the initiative to reform police training that is more modular, in order to meet the need for police capacity in the years to come and to avoid misuse of resources? The SIAN computer system has, as I see it, been a complete scandal. This has caused employees to tear their hair, become ill and spend three to four times as much time because of the implementation of this project and the misunderstood performance that has been associated with it. Will the Government ensure that this project is reviewed and the responsibility is placed, so that we have at least learned something for the future? Finally, I would like to repeat a question that was asked to the representative Borten Moe: How do you intend to get in touch with the male prostitutes with whom you have not been able to get in touch at this time, and whom you have no idea, simply because you have prejudiced men who are prostitutes and who are victims of abuse? How are you going to change the basics that probably make what's written about these not worth the paper it's written on? Otherwise, I record from the debate that the representative of Ballo obviously inspires to take over the position of Permitted Representative Schjøtt-Pedersen as creative storyteller in this room, with the description of the Free Legal Aid Office in Oslo. We're all glad it's been well. With the arrogance and misinterpretation of reports, etc. which has been going on for several months, I think it was a very strange description of the situation that has been, not least of the lack of dialogue that has been on the part of the Government until recently. Finally. Governments are concerned with integration. How has the Government planned to follow-up on the Khat problem, as is seen among some Somalis in Oslo, who prevent integration and contribute to more crime and violence against, for example, wives of these?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e814	The challenges in criminal care are many and complex. An active – and holistic – fight against crime is a key word here. It is important to think about prevention, to prevent people from getting a criminal career, and it is important to react and rehabilitate better, and not least follow-up after restitution is important. We prevent, among other things: by the Police Council. We better prevent the municipalities from being given a historic lift, where we have given room to strengthen the school, strengthen child protection and open connected youth clubs. Responding quickly and correctly is particularly important to young lawbreakers. Children under the age of 18 who commit crimes must have closed arrangements for them. It is not optimal to put all the young offenders in prison so that they receive both training in crime and a network of and among criminals. Crustaceans - no thanks. Smarter and more effective punishments – yes, thank you. New penalties such as a youth contract or forced transfer to the conflict council are an instrument here. More use of community sanctions is another tool. We don't want a maximum limit on the use of community sanctions. Use of alternative forms of punishment, such as: drug programmes and pro-mille programmes are also important tools. Atonement cows must be removed. It does something to people's sense of justice when the judge is guilty of new criminal acts while they're waiting to come into the atoning. The government's bet on the criminal agency is missing at my discretion in Norway. The school offer has been expanded by almost 50 pst., the library service has been strengthened, and not least the health service and drug treatment has been strengthened. 80 pst. of the increase in the justice sector goes to criminal services, and this was a very necessary step. If we're going to get rid of the cows, we're going to have to do something about one in two going back to prison in five years. The red-green government will increase prison sites by 317 places by 2007, and we will start building Halden Prison with 251 new ones. We also increase with 30 new settings in the field of free movement. The red-green government has a knowledge-based criminal policy. We know that most people who go to prison have a drug problem. We know that most people who go to prison have little education. Based on living conditions studies, we also know that there is an accumulation of living conditions problems for this group, for example. poor health and a high need for psychiatric assistance and treatment. The detention period shall give the convicted better ballast. That is why we need to address the problems. We're doing something about the problems when we're boosting our drug treatment by five million. kr in the budget. We're doing something in connection with the fact that most inmates have low education when we increase the effort here by 50 pst. We are also doing something about the content of the soning when it collects the increase in criminal services during 2006-2007 is 450 million. kr. We also want to introduce a return guarantee. Those who have children and made up their own, will have a new chance to move on, come back to and work in society. We will establish mandatory cooperation structures between criminal services and municipal and state agencies by release to reduce the problems of relapses – close follow-up from various departments by release with a strong focus on getting people into jobs or into further education, with strict demands for rehabilitation and change of behaviour. By bringing down condominiums, preventing criminals from committing new crimes while waiting to have children, through better rehabilitation in prison, drug treatment and efforts to evict more police and prison officers, we are reducing the violence and crime in society. By changing the law and giving the courts better authority to secure the victims’ position, we see a clear change of course and a change in the pace of justice policy. Finally, I'd like to say something about Barna's house. The right has pointed out at several points from this speaker's chair that the government has spent a long time after the project report on Barna's house was submitted last fall, and that the Swedish have received this report and all established five new Barna's houses in Sweden. We've checked this out. No, it was that the group that wrote the Norwegian report was in Linköping, where they had established Barna's house, and there they were told that they were already establishing Barna's houses several places in Sweden. In fact, Sweden was already establishing several Barna’s houses before the report was written.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e849	I would like to start by quoting this article from the Newspaper on March 27, 2002: «The reconciliation queue is growing to a very serious extent, and I think it is strange that Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has not pressed any more for solutions. When we, as politicians, believe in the use of punishment, there is a dangerous signal when people do not zone because we do not have room for them, says Storberget." Further, we can read: ‘Then I expect the Minister of Justice to come up with measures that cover everything from increased appropriations to more and better places. It will be a heavy political responsibility to bear for Dørum if he does not now intervene. I had expected the government to put spades in the ground, or use abandoned defence buildings as prisons to prevent the serious developments we face, says Storberget." It will be a heavy political responsibility for Storberget if he does not now intervene. In 2002, it was about the same. 2 057 in pay queue. Today's number is approx. 2 500, according to the Ministry of Justice. The Professional Association of Criminal Services operates with nearly 8 000 in queues. Long prison cows cause hundreds of prisoners to be released before the sentence is completed. This year only corresponds to the projected probationary period approx. 150 years in prison. That's when we get such conditions that we could read about in the VG on Tuesday: Prisons are full, which makes Oslo more dangerous. This government creates insecurity. Instead of doing something about what he criticized the previous Minister of Justice, the solution of Storberg is to release the prisoners before the end of settlement, rather than building new closed prisons. Now that the government parties boast that the settlement queues are on their way down, the Minister of Justice appears to be a magician trying to conjure away the reconciliation cows. The government manufactures criminal custody as a budget winner. Which winner? Is this kind of lookup we saw in VG Tuesday, a winner's cause? Instead of putting the spade into the ground and using abandoned defence structures, prisoners are released. One introduces increased use of community punishment, and a rate too much in open places instead of in closed places, as we need. The party of progress is very concerned about today's reconciliation queue. A higher level of activity in the fight against crime requires that you have the capacity and the means to follow up with reactions, not to release the prisoners. I will quote again the former representative of Storberget: «If we had been struck with the cows and cows in the courts, this too would have eased the pressure on the police. It is pointless to discover crime if one does not have the power to deal with it.» The primary responsibility of criminal justice is to be able to handle volume – it should be responsible for the termination of the sentence and contribute to a good level of compensation in order to reduce the rate of relapse. The progress party is also concerned about the high rate of relapse we have in Norwegian prisons. It is important to have a good content in housing, and it is important to support non-governmental organisations such as Wayback. Today, Wayback has a relapse rate of approx. 50 pst., while the criminal services have approx. 80 pst. These are way too high numbers. A few weeks ago, I was visiting the Crime Department region south. Seeing the everyday lives of those working in Norwegian prisons leaves an impression. Often we forget that the country’s prisons are the largest detoxification institutions we have – the challenges of drugs, psychiatry and crime in prisons are great. It's worrying. I would like to draw up here the pilot project launched in Stavanger Prison for women with violent experiences, as sons in prison. High demands are being made on the staff of criminal services. Often, there are firemen who are behind many of the programs running in prisons to try to restore the criminals. Let me finish where I started. I fully agree with Mr Storberget's statements in 2002. It's just that he doesn't deliver what he said himself: ‘We are in a situation where the queue will continue to grow strongly if nothing is done. This is because several criminal cases are dealt with by the police and the courts dismiss the judge at a faster pace than before.’ The Progress Party is now expecting the Minister of Justice to show its power of action, and our advice to the Minister of Justice is therefore to use abandoned defence buildings as a prison, to prevent the serious developments we are facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e895	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e898	I drew myself to a new post with background in the post by the representative Dørum, where he had a characteristic of what I had said about the office of free legal aid in Oslo – he well used the term ‘science fiction’. Now it is the case that in the proposition that Dørum was responsible for presenting, there is a rather thorough mention of the City Council's Legal Aid Office. It is a very detailed description of an evaluation that has taken place and how cases have been dealt with. I cannot go through this whole evaluation here, but the conclusion regarding the impact of the evaluation is as follows: ‘In the light of the evaluation, an adaptation of the scope of the grant to the number of cases within the scope of the law will be relevant.’ What Dørum is saying now is that although it had to be both one and the other in this document, such an assessment would never have had the consequence that there was a cut – that is what I believe. It's a rather special way of interpreting the document that the Bondevik I government presented. It's hard for others to perceive this differently than it has consequences. That's what a whole committee did. You were busy caring for the office. Therefore, there was also a comitology out of it – not on the basis of anything the subsequent government did, but on the basis of what the government Bondevik did. It is good that we have put it in place, that the office is secure for further operations, and that we also have a number of new legal remedies. If we now leave what I have now mentioned here, I hope that Dørum agrees that instead of tearing down well-functioning offers, it would be good if you could get new button shooting offers. Thus, there is a significant amount of money in relation to free legal remedies for 2007, and if you are able to start an activity, there may be funds to apply for. In this way, perhaps after each large part of the rest of the country can have a similar offer, as one has managed to build up, not least with ideal resources, in Oslo – with students, with lawyers, who have not necessarily paid well, but who have stood on top of the most needy in the population in terms of this type of offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e910	I'd like to say a little bit about what we're doing now to ensure the high level of activity in the police. Then I want to start by giving Dørum credit for the last budget he provided – there was a significant increase to the police on that state budget. This increase was reinforced by the current year’s current government, and the level is continued for the next year. This effort has led to many of the measurement parameters we have on the police's work, now going straight ahead. One of the goals we use is time for trial. In 2004, the average duration of proceedings was 153 days. In the last measurement we've got, the number is down to 90 days. It is particularly gratifying that the figures for the trial period for young offenders have fallen from 77 days in 2004 to less than the 42-day deadline now. While these figures are joyous, figures also show that the clearance rate is increasing. That means the Norwegian police are delivering what we're asking for, and a little bit more. But we in the red-green parts are not satisfied. We still believe that there is a lot that needs to be done to achieve our goals. We have to prevent better, that's one of the things we put the most into. One of the things we have great faith in is the cooperation we have now launched between the municipal authorities and the police force, the police council. We think we can prevent smarter and more efficient if we get better cooperation. I therefore hope that the next year will be remembered as the year of formalisation of cooperation between the police and the Municipal Council of Norway – and thus made justice policy interesting also for local politicians. In this context, I would like to highlight Hedmark Police District, which has already contacted all the municipalities in the police district, with the aim of formalising a cooperation agreement between the police district and each municipality. What's going to be one of the major challenges ahead for Police Norway is the team situation. We said in the police report, which we dealt with in ours, that police-trained personnel would be scarce. We are therefore very pleased with the efforts we now have to train more police. The next year, we've added 72 more students to the police colleges, and the increase is so great that we've now detonated the capacity. We will also continue to work on a number of measures that we are now considering to reduce recruitment challenges in the future. So I'll say a little bit about equipment. It has been one of the major challenges for the police in recent years. It is a aftermath of the work of former governments, I would say. With the initiative launched in 2005, things are about to be corrected a little. But there's one way left to go. What's nice is that in the balancing process we now got the money to buy guns for police Norway, got in place some money to buy equipment for communication control, and we got some money to bet on the PST. It's a start. In total, it represents a re-prioritisation of approximately. Forty-four million. kr, which will provide a «slaughter» within police budgets for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e928	The theme is: Am I responsible for what stands in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006, page 166, first column? The answer, of course, is yes. Governments are always responsible for what is in a budget paper. But: Is this what I would have done – as it happened? The answer can be based on two reasonings — firstly, that the entire legal aid plan was up for assessment after a broad debate in Stortinget, and secondly, that one knew what was known about the situation in Oslo. My conclusion is: I wouldn't have done that. It's my responsibility. But it's also my responsibility what's here. I can trust the representative Ballo that there are many things that need to be assessed, but of course you do not censor an evaluation. So what I said was not this section. What I said was, would I have passed the race, as it says here? Then the answer is no. That is what I said earlier from the Chair of the Great Britain. Then we can be happy that we found a solution to that. I can add another point: Would I, as the Council of State, after a unanimous comitology act as if it did not exist? I strongly doubt that, to say it in a careful way. I wouldn't have done that. It's not my type of work. Since this becomes a debate on hypothetical conjunctivities, a past, the representative Ballo and I met at that point, that it was a solution. We're happy about that. I am also pleased that the Government that is now sitting gave an opening to what happened earlier this year, in the budget for next year, that a solution was found with the Municipality of Oslo. There were a lot of political parties that made contributions to finding that solution. I also share Mr Ballos's view that some pioneering measures sometimes have to be put in place to extend the scope of policy and policy. That's where we share our perception. Then, after some previous strong exercises, we can conclude that we're going to land in the same place. But I don't want there to be any doubt. No sentences contained in a document like this are irresponsible to any Council of State, whatever its name or designation. You're responsible for that. That's what you're in for. But the daring wisdom that then had to follow, one also stands for it. This inconceivable solitude belongs to the responsibility of any Council of State, both in the past and in the present.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e937	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo, perhaps for good reason, failed to answer my question as to whether there is a new red-green principle to disagree with the opposition for the sake of disagreement. When Ballo didn't feel called to answer, I think it's appropriate to address this question to the committee's head, from the Workers' Party. After each of the parties to the government in the committee, I perceive – and not specifically in the budget – that disunity has become a virtue. I think the government parties should think through the effect of that. I'm going to make a consensus here by saying that the Right is very clear that we support the Government's proposal for action to increase the quality of the content of the compensation. No matter what has been said by this speaker on the part of the government parties, I think it's quite premature to read the setting so that you draw the Right's voice into doubt in that way. The right ‘new chance’ policy also includes prisoners. We want to give better follow-up during reconciliation. We've actually proposed another 10 million. to various programmes for prisoners. We are particularly concerned that the youngest prisoners will receive such offers. Better arrangement under atonement means that more people can stand stiffer on their own legs after atonement. Therefore, the right considers that specific requirements should also be laid down for prisoners to participate in education and training programmes. It's probably demanding for many, but the purpose is to equip the prisoner best possible for life after atonement. I also recall that the Right in its Alternative State Budget actually has a greater poverty rate than the Government has, with more accurate measures than the fee relief proposed by the Government – and of which the Ministry of Finance, on questions from the Right, has not been able to demonstrate the poverty effect. I also asked another question to the representative, Ballo, to whom I asked for an answer. Why is it that government parties in the Education Committee will not support a research project aimed at gaining more knowledge of the training needs of adult prisoners? It must be very important to know what they need in order for us to take effective and good action. Later this month we will treat St.meld. No 20 for 2005-2006 on young offenders. It is the Right's starting point that Norway should do everything in its power to comply with the UN Children's Convention, but the proposals seem hasty, and we must not be naive. Of course, we should avoid imprisonment as far as possible, but the Right will not be involved in experimenting with child protection as a criminal offence. The representative Hegø was concerned that prison is unsuitable for children who have committed crimes. The answer to this may hardly be that heavily criminal children should teach other children in child protection. The proposal put forward by the Government does not reflect on this issue. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Right supports proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e954	It is always exciting to be the Council of State and to be confronted with newspaper interviews that you have given in 2002. After all, I heard the entire interview from the representative in Horne's posts, and I have to say that I am very comfortable with my own statements at the time. I would recommend that, in addition to reading the VG, we also start reading the budgetary positions, and the budget proposal that comes from the Ministry of Justice, in terms of our criminal record. It's not some magic we're about to do in the Ministry of Justice when we're now establishing more atoning places. When you put it into practice as if we don't use closed institutions, whether it's defence institutions or civil defence institutions, for reconciliation, yes, I have to say, it's a year we've done it, it's exactly the year we're in. For just a few weeks I was and opened the Bruvoll clay, which should accommodate approx. 70 settlement prisoners, and it is soon full operation at Bjørgvin prison in Bergen, which is thus initiated in the revised national budget of the red-green government. This is just following up on the lines I drew up in 2002. And – I was saying – as if that were not enough, we are also doing the grip that many of us have been waiting for for for years, namely that we are actually starting construction of Halden prison. So we literally stick the spade in the ground and spend over 130 million dollars. kr – I guess – to the next year to get the billion bet going. So you're going to have read awfully much VG and incredibly little budget papers if you can say on this pulpit that we're not now taking action to build more atoning places. After all, there must only be VG reading or other type of reading that contributes to the production from this pulpit as if the queue continues to grow. I think I've said it twice already, but I'd like to say it for the third time, so it's like that the reconciliation queue is now going down, and it's about 2,300. Since we implemented our action plan in May, we have seen a significant decline, and that decline is expected to continue. In fact, it means that the measures that I thought were necessary in 2002 and which are now in force will actually have an effect and will provide considerably more police force, also because the police will have the opportunity to place people in custody – there will be no capacity when getting rid of the reconciliation queue, just to place people in custody. You're going to get the gangs back to the settlement quickly, so you can bring down the crime in that way. I can't see any other way of being on the right track than just by what we're doing now, and the numbers show us that as well. In the context of the fact that at the same time we have a record record for the teaching of prison officers, at KRUS, yes, it turns out that we have a whole in this bet, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e965	I would like to link two comments to the State Council of Storberget's contributions earlier today. Among other things, he said: that when the Party of Progress cuts the tariff and levy rate, it will go beyond the border control. Unfortunately, he has also not read the comment from the Progress Party, where we point out that the border control should be strengthened, it should not be affected by the cuts of the Progress Party. But what the Council of State says – that there are no opportunities to cut administrative and post duties in the customs and charging seat – is completely wrong. Every year, the number of employees is growing. And it does it not just there, but in every other establishment. The Party of Advances is the only party that points out that it must be possible to reduce public administration, including in the customs and charging seat. The reason why the amount is large there is that the amount is initially enormous – it is enormous that goes to the administration of the customs and tax haven. The potential for cutting there is great. Then to the second comment of the State Council of Storberget. He talked about the Progress Party cutting into integration measures for immigrants – our new countrymen, as Storberget said. Yeah, that's right. But what is alarming is the statement to Storberget. He says that if we do not have enough integration measures for our new countrymen, the potential offenders are. It's stigmatizing our immigrants. The Progress Party does not regard our immigrants as potential lawbreakers. They're going to work in our society, and stigmatizing immigrants in this way is taking the Progress Party away. Integration measures in our alternative budget should go to those who come here. We want to cut the number of immigrants coming here. Therefore, we do not need to spend billions of dollars on integration measures, which Storberget believes are very important. Integration measures should not prevent them from carrying out criminal acts, but in order to integrate them, to teach them Norwegian, so that they function, have the opportunity to compete in the Norwegian labour market – not to knock down another citizen in Oslo City or Kristiansand City or Drammen City, as Storberget suggests. We don't think immigrants are potential lawbreakers, we actually think they're law-abiding in the first place, just like everyone else in this country, and they don't need special measures to avoid committing criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e978	The debate is moving towards the end, and then it's going to be a little bit of speed and excitement. I record that the Council of State is satisfied with its own efforts, and that the government parties are satisfied with their own efforts in terms of the settlement queue. Then it could have been tempting to invite the Council of State to the hearing of the Judicial Committee on this year's budget, where at least I did not feel that neither representatives from the NFF nor from the KY were particularly impressed by what was going on. It was, of course, a strengthening of the budget, they said, but in the wrong area, because it goes in open spaces. The constant feedback was that what we need is actually several closed spaces. I also record that the Council of State has moderated its previous statements on the removal of the reconciliation queue. Now I see it more like the Council of State has said that it is the official reconciliation queue that is going to go away – that means the number that the Council of State has fought against, about. 2,500, and as he has now said goes down. The reality is that it's in a place between 4000 and 8,000. It just depends on what kind of criteria you input into it. The Council of State has recently said to me in a letter that he has nothing against a debate on the reality of the reconciliation queue, now we have to take it. Yes, then, my challenge to the Council of State is immediately that the Council of State is taking the initiative to actually bring the realities into line, not just what is politically appropriate. Because that's what's in focus today, and it's all about decorating a reality that I think you have to be the Council of States to take over. In any case, the Council of State is very aware that the reality of the settlement queue and its content and volume is much greater than the official statistics. You don't have company with people until it's gone that way and so long. Those who don't show up, and those who have leave, are not in the official queue either. In other words, the content is something quite different from what is being prejudiced from this pulpit. Then, of course, you can boast of both the one and the other. The reality is that the claim of the Council of State is not a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e989	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for a very interesting debate. Once again, we have demonstrated the inconsistency between life and learning at the Progress Party, and the Right now demands that in one year, the Government will obviously have completed all the party not completed in four years in government. I am pleased with the Right's commitment to a number of things that both the Soria Moria statement, the Government and the majority point to. That has to be said. But it is important to stress that in the case of the issues that the Right points to in these areas, the Government has done more in this year than the party was given in four years. Take, for example: Crime prevention: this is the strongest increase in both content and number of places in many years. In the case of Barna's House, it was originally a proposal that Red Children worked on, but that SV has since taken up in Stortinget. With regard to the rescue service, the Bondevik government was only able to put in place 24 hours a day in attendance at the Sun during the four years the government was in place, while we have managed to put Banak and Bodø in place for less than one year. The most perceptive thing, however, is not the right involvement in our affairs, but the absence of a separate justice policy. With regard to the Progress Party, we are once again experiencing a lack of understanding between the party that is prejudiced and the consequences of the policy. Both the representative Ellingsen and Tybring-Gjedde have been in the section The Progress Party has proposed in relation to the tax haven. The Progress Party has, as I said, defended the fact that they will strengthen the fight against economic crime and are concerned about the customs situation. But that is how the cuts proposed by the Progress Party will dramatically reduce control, will dramatically reduce the possibilities for the tax rate to combat economic crime. The proposal will have serious consequences for the tax haven’s efforts to detect financial crime. It is not just that this proposal will reduce red tape, as the Progress Party is trying to make it. Several have been concerned with the consequences of the alcohol policy that the Progress Party wants us to take, which will lead to a dramatic deterioration in violence and crime. Then the Progress Party is very busy with the PST's work. But again, the Progress Party demonstrates its lack of understanding. The Progress Party has proposed a large, large cut in the aid budget, and the post of peace and reconciliation proposes the party cut by over 60 pst. It will reduce Norway’s role as a peace nation. It will increase the level of conflict internationally and create a much more uncertain and insecure security policy situation for Norway. The actual policy of the Progress Party, which is the one that emerges from their alternative budget, is tempting to call it unwise and navigable. At least it creates less security in and for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1006	It was the representative of Tybring-Gjedde who made me take the floor, because we were now confirmed by the Progress Party that we should not cut the border control. We have now been sitting here during the debate on justice policy today, and among other things. heard the representative of Thore Nistad from the Progress Party say that, indeed, it was the border control that was to be cut, because it was completely unnecessary. Among other things, many pensioners experienced being stopped at the Swedish border and being deprived of a bottle of alcohol or its like, were totally unnecessary activities on the part of customs, so we could just cut this down on it. I have to say with all due respect that when such a large party goes in for such a qualified cut in a public office that does a great job to limit cross-border crime in all its literality, I would have expected you to know where the 500-600 jobs were to be taken. These are vital staff to combat serious crime. Then at one moment, we hear that the border control is to be taken, and then all of a sudden, all of the people sitting in the office are to be taken. This is not a serious way to run politics, and I would strongly warn against financing their police and other criminal policy efforts by taking this kind of action. I am glad that the former government parties also do not go into such a political activity. So that's the question of paychecks. It's made into a number that as soon as the reconciliation queue starts going down, we count wrong, and we're being attacked for it. We've been completely open the whole time in relation to all the queues that exist. If you read Regeringen's action plan against cows – I think it's on page 4 or 6 – all these queues stand, which in total make up several thousand people. It's people who don't pay their fines. It's people who are in line for community punishment, and it's those who have been put off for a living, and so on. Our ambition is that these queues should go down, and all the queues actually go down. One of the reasons we're now giving more money to Free Care is that we want the line of community punishment, which is 250 or its like, to be reduced as well. Our ambition is that people should not stand in line to respond, except for those who have legitimate reasons for it, whether it is a woman who is pregnant, or a granddaddy who must be at home and take care of her child, who gets a period of a few months, or it is because of education or other good reasons. We're very conscious of that, and it's in the public document that's presented. There's no secrecy around it. I ask all opposition politicians to rejoice that the numbers are going in the right direction, which they did not do under the previous government regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1017	With regard to the description of the process related to the law firm in Oslo, I do not share with the representative Dørum the description of the government parties' plans, that it was science fiction. First of all, the process was characterized by being a pig. It's becoming part of such processes from this government. St.meld. No 20 for 2005-2006, on children and young people in prison, is being squandered in both proposals and processes. Organisations, police and child protection have almost not been heard at all. In fact, the opposition had to take the initiative to carry out a hearing, so that they came up and got their say on the proposals. The management of the police reserve is addressed in a letter to the Minister of Justice dated 30 November, where one concludes with: now we are delighted to experience the Minister of Justice's power of action and come from talk to practice. That voltage also shares the right. Actually, I'm getting feverish, but I've got a lot. I note that the Council of State does not want to answer how to do something about the khat problem, the integration of Somalis especially in Oslo, how to reach male prostitutes and trafficking victims, how to implement the closer financing of the regrim project, not wanting a police reserve, how to recruit more policemen in Oslo, how to use civil servants to free up police force, whether you are open to more modular police training, and whether you want to work to integrate work for better control of the civil society as part of the work against organised crime. When the committee leader almost sings the International from the pulpit, and when the committee has practically not had cases in a year, except for purely expedition cases that have to do with the EEA, I have to almost correct myself again: this isn't a grizzly either, it's a mixture of psychological thrills and fables.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1024	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1027	Elisabeth Aspaker listed over 3 minutes of questions that she expected me to be able to answer within 1 minute in a reply. Of course that's not possible. However, common to the various questions she listed were, for example:: Why doesn't SV want more for research? Why doesn't SV want even more Barna's house? Why won't SV do more here and more there? The answer to that is very simple, President and Elisabeth Aspaker: because those measures cost money, that's why we can't. Within the framework we have proposed, Aspaker sees what it can afford, but for zero kroner, as proposed by the Right, it is not possible to implement any of these measures. That's why it's good when Elisabeth Aspaker ends by stressing that she very much agrees with the Government, that it was a shame that we underlined that disagreement. I also expect our budget to be supported by the Right today, in line with the consensus that Aspaker has put so much emphasis on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1032	I'm just going to make a comment to the State Council of Storberget, who's talking about us kissing. Yeah, we're kissing. It is true, as the representative Nistad said, that we do not have to do with the alternative budget of the Progress Party. Read the alternate budget of the Progress Party! We cut the charges for all goods at the border that matter. In fact, there is no need to carry out checks on this type of smuggling, for example: by old ladies travelling on harry-trafficking, if they accept the Party's tax cuts on the commercial leakage products, namely alcohol and tobacco. Then it's connected – there's two thoughts in your head at the same time, Councillor Storberget, and there's no point in acting so instructive to the staging hall. I also record that the Council of State chose to ignore my comments on integration, and that is because the Government has a very bad conscience. Because integration has actually gone down, and it's not because you spend too little money. If it was because you spent too little money on integration, then you can try to get out of it, and it's done different governments, year after year, spend more and more money on integration, and integration doesn't work. The main challenge is that there are too many immigrants per year. years. So you have to reduce the number of immigrants to make integration work. The natural integration process is missing, and that's what we're calling for. Then it does not actually help to grant money. In addition, potential offenders are not immigrants, as the State Council of Storberget suggested in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1040	The President will remind you that all speeches must go to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1043	There's something about the tone of this debate, and I have to say that I'm a little shocked by the red-green self-satisfaction and everything you think you've done in one year. There's a lot of balls in play, but few of those balls have to be said to be in play. I also have to say that when the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo makes himself go up here and make another post, despite the fact that I have shown that the proposals that have been promoted by the Right are balanced into an overall alternative state budget, I wonder what rules of play apply in this house, whether they have now been modified by the red-green majority in the Justice Committee, or what is really the case. Of course, it is not that the Right does not have its own judicial policy. We are very clear that we want more for the police. We're very clear that we want rehabilitation in prisons. We're very clear that we want individual demands for those who are in prison, because we think it's important to get successful and good rehabilitation, so that people can stand on their own feet even after atonement. So I had an invitation in my main post. Even the government parties were unable to accept today, on the need to focus more on the legal protection of children in Norway. So even it was not possible to say that we agreed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1054	You have to be allowed to say that the Council of State lives in a time gone by. For him, the agenda is clearly the plan economy and control. For us in the Progress Party, this is not controlled. We don't have the sense of having a whole bunch of people standing on the Swedish border just because it might be a pensioner who brought a bottle of wine or a few kilos of meat too much. There is also bureaucracy connected. What does it cost to have all these bureaucrats sitting there and planning action after action on some Danish holiday or on Svinesund to take these poor pensioners? Isn't it better to spend a little more money on Interpol and Europol and do it that way? I am sitting in the Nordic Council, and we were recently at Bornholm and got to know how the Danes had done it. They have no more than barely 100 men left on border control. It's gone. The Swedes are laying down the border station in Haparanda these days. This is a time gone, sitting with a lot of people on the border to check if someone has a bottle of wine too much, etc. That's not how you take backers and international gangs today, but it's obviously more interesting to look for some pork and a bottle of wine at the border than to take the big backers. Use some of these means to strengthen Europol! I have an example from when I was down in Europe now. Switzerland has joined Interpol, and all passports are checked. You take stolen passports, or fake passports, or scammers who do this. Norway – no, they haven't even thought about it. But Switzerland then drives and takes several Norwegian passports that are fake, stolen or imitated, in its border controls, because they are connected to Interpol. It's a new age. There's something called technology, and there's something called cooperation – instead of standing with an entire army on the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1063	It's good with a little temperature in this debate, and maybe now is the time to argue about the best budget. But I must be allowed to ask the committee leader if it was just the Progress Party who was at that hearing on the budget. Were the numbers that both KY and NNF came with, just nonsense? At least that's what we're dealing with. Then to the Council of State. I can assure the Council that I read newspapers and documents other than VG. But maybe the Council of States should now start reading VG. What came out on Wednesday was that full prisons make Oslo more dangerous. It says: ‘Oslo police estimate that 60 criminal acts would have been avoided this year if repeaters had not been continually released due to full prisons.’ And then to the Council of State, it's known that there's 150 years of prison just now in 2006 in relation to projected parole, and then he says that the reconciliation queue is going down. If it's not magic, yes, then I don't know. There's one thing for me to bring. If one reads the budget of the Progress Party, one clearly sees that there are more spaces built than the Council of State says. That's absolutely true. We have expanded this year, but not closed spaces. There are closed spaces we need, and that's what the professionals also say. So a little bit more about the Advance Party budget. – Where is the Workers’ Party with regard to the coordination of pensioners? Where are they in the case of hospital cows? Is it just in terms of the prison sites that we're going to bring down the queues? Where are they in the case of care for the elderly, where they don't give one penny? The Advance Party will also strengthen the PST. Then I must be allowed to comment on the Breen, which boasts that the government has now found money for weapons and for the West. It's the Police Directorate that has redispatched the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1083	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1086	Thank you for that, President. A last greeting from me to the representative Ballo, who in his last post was very concerned that action costs money. If it's a surprise to the representative Ballo, I understand that the learning curve has not been steep enough in the government. I have to be allowed to say that I wish that the representative Ballo had the same concern for the hospitals in Norway and for those who are in a hospital queue as he has for the reconciliation queue. The priority of taking care of the criminals is in and out of control. It's a political choice. I wish the sympathy and understanding had been the same when it comes to taking care of the hospitals and perhaps removing the patient queues at the hospitals, so that people don't lie down in the hallway. After this government took over, the problems for hospitals have only grown. At least it wasn't like that in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1095	The representative André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1098	I record that we have a Council of State and a government that at the time of accession told us to have a dialogue with the Stortinget. I note that during this debate the Council of State has not answered one single question from the second largest opposition party. These are very specific issues that need to be resolved in relation to the budget. I register it with interest, to say it like that, and assume that the Council of State will come back and answer those questions appropriately, because it simply does not seem that when you get concrete questions about the budget – which is actually the most important governing document – from two representatives from the Right, you don't even take the break to answer any of it. In fact, we also talk on behalf of people who have approached us, both during the hearing and in other ways. If you're not interested in answering here, you're not interested in answering all the people who haven't come through, for example. The Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1105	I do not want to have it on me that I do not answer the questions asked. I'd like to. There's speaking time up here, so it's hard to get through effectively. I am so sorry if the representative Dahl feels that I have not answered his questions. There is no reason not to do so, for many of the questions that the representative Dahl did not receive, deserve a good answer. Questions were raised about the police reserve. If you go into the budget paper, on page 116, it says about the government's plans for the police reserve. I have no other answer to give than that. During 2007, it is planned to review the operation and scope of the police reserve, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way in terms of the functioning of the police reserve. I would also like to say that the police reserve took part in the Oslo exercise, which gives us valuable impulses as to how we could possibly draw the police reserve into further police work in the future. Then the representative has asked questions about the replay in Oslo to continue. We've answered that a number of times in this debate. We've responded publicly. I think I've also responded to this earlier in the house. Of course it should continue. When we see the results we get out of that coordination, which is primarily the basis for the replication that is now taking place in Oslo, there is no reason to conclude that project. With regard to the financing of the project, the Stortinget shall adopt the budget framework for the Oslo Police District later today. Budgetary frameworks for police in general are to be adopted in Norway, and then the Ministry is to draw up letters of allocation. I want to come back and inform the Storting about how these letters of assignment are, with relevance to the question that Dahl is now raising. So Dahl has been concerned about the question of male prostitutes. I believe that the representative Dahl has a very important point in relation to the male prostitutes. It's a group of people who are often forgotten, and you don't get involved in, among other things. the action plans we have had on trafficking. Within a few days, the government has ambitions to present a revised action plan on trafficking. There is no doubt that the gender perspective that Dahl's representative draws on in terms of trafficking is very vital, and that the instruments we now receive must have that particular group in mind. The question asked about the Somali environment and khat use has, as I know, been answered earlier in response to a written question. So I asked him to go back and read that answer. Now there's 21 seconds left, so it's starting to go on the tamp. But at least I'm going to promise the representative that if he has any further questions, it's just to ask, even outside this room, and he's going to get the answers he needs to do important political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1122	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1114]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1139	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1156	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1173	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1190	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President proposed that matters be dealt with as follows: 6 and 7 will be treated under one – and see it as a confirmation. [[Footing, see page 1120]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1219	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be distributed as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be two-point exchange of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1230	In many ways yesterday appeared to be sad as f..., and this is not only because Ari Behn flagged partial sympathy and embarrassed the royal house. This is because the government's energy and environmental policies were revealed as inadequate, sprawling and very poorly adapted to the climate challenges we face. The day started with the news that Statnet is purchasing three mobile gas power plants to use them as compensation for lack of action by the Government in other areas. The day ended with the news that the wind power plant in Outer Vikna will be greatly reduced as a result of the government’s scheme in support of renewable energy sources being completely inadequate. When the Government scrapped the Green Certificate Scheme, which has triggered large amounts of renewable energy sources, the Left warned of an overall opposition, the environmental movement and the energy industry against its impact. It was said that the government would provide an alternative that was just as good. A scheme was put forward with an energy fund called a historic investment. Now we know that that energy fund is completely insufficient to trigger the great potential of renewable energy that we have in Norway. The argument that the board used yesterday when they shrunk the Outer Vikna wind farm is like a copy of the argument that the opposition has used in the past. It was said that the background that one did not invest in this plant, for which a concession has been granted, was that the government's arrangement is far too bad. I hope that the oil and energy minister will take advantage of the opportunity today to acknowledge that the historical effort is now like the environmental movement, the energy industry and the opposition say – insufficient to trigger the potential they have here – and that one is willing to re-assess a feed-in system that can speed up this necessary work. There is an increased focus on environmental policy and not least on climate issues. It's both positive and negative. The negative thing is that attention is due to climate change that is increasing in scope and that has dramatic impacts. The positive thing is that there is a growing willingness to do something about the problems, and a growing understanding of what needs to be done. Both parts have contributed to the Stern report and the configuration of the Low Emissions Committee. They describe the problems in a clear and clear way. But equally important — they show the way out of the problems we are facing, and they clearly state that the costs of the measures that are needed are affordable and far less than the costs of not responding to the challenges we face. The recommendations that come, for example: from the Low Emissions Committee, as a hand, fits the energy and environmental policy of the Left. The left is a technology-optimistic party that is clear on the challenges we face, but is also clear that there are opportunities to solve the challenges if we want to – and that will be the left! Now, in recent days, we've seen that the government will not in any way sufficiently. Some of us have been to the Nairobi climate meeting. It was in many ways a disappointing meeting. There was a strong willingness on the part of the Chair to use powerful instruments to achieve clear objectives. But around the negotiating tables there was a lack of the same will. What was also evident at the Nairobi meeting was that Norway did not have the most obvious objectives this time. While Germany was willing to reduce emissions by 40 pst. until 2020, and the United Kingdom 30 p.m., the Norwegian Minister for the Environment said that one was in favour of a 20-30 p.m. cut. between 2020 and 2030. There are defensive formulations by a Minister for the Environment representing a party with a party program that suggests that the cuts should be 50 pst. in 2020. Norway is therefore in the process of giving up the leading position in the international climate work of the previous government. I want to challenge the Government to come to Stortinget with a message on how to follow up the recommendations of the Low Emissions Committee. Then a start should be made with clear objectives, and the targets should be 30 pst. cut in 2020, and two-thirds cut in 2050. Once one has made these objectives clear, one has to show what to do to achieve them. It is quite clear that it is important to get moving quickly, because the costs of waiting for the necessary measures are increasing dramatically as time goes on. The left is of the opinion that we need a broad climate settlement in Stortinget. The challenges warrant that. Many of the things that have to be done are demanding, and they stand more steady if you have a broad majority behind. In many ways, the need for a broad settlement related to the climate challenges can be said to be the same as one has in relation to the pension challenges. These are issues that go beyond generations, and it is necessary to have predictability and firmness in policy to achieve the desired objectives. So I hope I can get a response during the day from the Council of State to this idea and this wanted a broad climate settlement. In the budget we are going to deal with today, there are some good environmental tracks, but there are also many disappointing points – things that are going in the wrong direction. It is obvious that the Ministry of the Environment is a budget paper. In a situation where the Government has had record money at its disposal, there is a standstill in the Ministry of the Environment. Even in the extra round, when you got new billions at your disposal, you didn't get an extra penny to the environment. It then appears to be worrying and revealing when the Minister of Environmental Protection today describes the position of the Art Database, and their new Red List, as an order for more money and powerful measures, and so she is not able to deliver something that is close to what is needed in order to achieve these objectives. On the contrary, it is cut in the appropriations for forest protection, and it opens up for extensive use of forest roads – the opposite of what the previous government did. These are targeted interventions that are an increased threat to biodiversity. In its budget, the Left is committed to strengthening the Ministry of Environment's area by 177 million. kr. In addition, we take on a number of other areas of important environmental policy action. We strengthen the reward system for public transport, we strengthen the research effort to follow up on the position of the Low Emissions Committee, and we add up to a further tax shift, from red to green taxes. I'm not going to get into the details of our budget. Unfortunately, it is in this area that our manuscript must be rewritten from day to day, because negative news related to energy and environmental policy comes to the Government as it is necessary to comment. So a little bit to the oil and energy department's budget. It seems very unclear what the Government wants in relation to the gas power projects that are now in progress. There are a number of projects waiting for clarification from the Government. You want to know if you can count on the government's contribution to realize the projects and get the emissions cleaned. I think it would be useful for the Storting to get an overall presentation of the different gas power projects, and a strategy by the Government adapted to these projects that exist. Which one looks at most interesting? What are the Government's arrangements to help realize these different projects? Then I want to say something about the historical commitment to renewable energy sources. The first few years are a return of 400 million. kr from an energy fund. So now one will spend $2 billion on mobile gas plants, which is equivalent to the yield of the Energy Fund for five years. A measure that has suddenly emerged is one that is thus willing to spend five times more money on what is supposed to be the return of the Energy Fund, with the amount it will receive next year, for five years. It puts things in perspective – and unfortunately it gives us the results that we saw yesterday. The option for the left is that the entire return from the Energy Fund is on energy conversion and saving measures. In a proposal that I and I will be promoting, we are asking the Government before the summer to set up a feed-in system that can help bring the renewable energy situation to a new stage today. It is dramatic when it is said today that nine out of ten wind power projects have been put on ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1266	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1271	I have heard several times the representative Kvassheim rise to the great heights when he is going to tell about the excellence of the Left in terms of the environmental profile. I have also recently recorded that Børge Brende – who was the Minister of Environmental Protection in if not exactly a left-wing government, so at least in the previous government – criticises the red-green parties both for energy policy and for climate policy. During the same period, little or nothing was done about the major climate problems, rather about the power situation. One reality is that while the Left was in government, CO2 emissions increased from 2002 to 2004 by 3 pst, or by half a million tonnes. Now we have a government that has taken on board the great climate problems with weight and credibility. My question to the left is: Could the Left live with the Right in the Government as it appears on the Right today? And is the Left now happy that there has been a government that actually takes the man-made climate problems seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1281	There is no doubt that the Left and Right have different environmental policies. I believe that the Left stresses environmental policy much more clearly than the Right and is willing to take seriously the challenges we face. We have good experience of working with the Right in Government. The policy we have been able to pursue together with the Right and Christian People's Party, I definitely recognize myself. Under the direction of Børge Brende, the protected area in Norway was extended by 50 pst. Now it's replaced by an almost protective break, as the Center Party wants. We also had powerful things about climate policy, and had a leading role internationally, among other things. in connection with the meeting in Johannesburg, where then Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, Børge Brende and Hilde Frafjord Johnson had a much clearer leadership role than our people had at the corresponding meeting we now had in Nairobi. So yes, there is a difference between the Right and the Left in environmental policy, but together we have shown that we can find good solutions that can withstand being measured against what today's government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1288	The representative Kvassheim once again demonstrates Left's clock belief in passive protection as an environmental policy instrument. At the same time, he is also involved in bioenergy from the Norwegian forest, and in that context there is now a debate on Trillemarka. In the Official Journal of Drammen on 5 October d.o.k.a. says Vice-President Runolv Stegane of the Left says about the protection in Trillemarka ‘that they now place their trust in Helen Bjørnøy and that she follows the recommendation of the County Council in Buskerud to protect ‘only’ 100000 Decar. Stegane believes that if Bjørnøy wants to go along with volunteering, she has no choice but to go for the municipality’s own proposal.» Then I ask: Does the representative Kvassheim trust Bjørnøy to implement the municipal initiative in Trillemarka? And if so, will the representative Kvassheim support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1298	Let me start with that there are also questions in the left where there is disagreement. With us, it's not like those who disagree with the party leadership are excluded, they're still in the party. In the Trillemarka case, there's a slightly different point of view, a little bit depending on where one is located in the geography. The left agrees with our local teams in Sigdal and Buskerud about that is that it is positive what has been done to get a voluntary arrangement to get the municipalities engaged. But we believe that this is an insufficient approach to the protection challenges we face. We want more comprehensive protection. I have registered that the municipality has now made a supplementary proposal, and hope that it can contribute to a solution with more extensive protection than the one it originally provided. I have great expectations that the Minister for the Environment will follow up in line with the need for protection in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1307	The Left and Christian People's Party has the following proposals in the budgetary position: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate Middle Norway as a separate experimental region for sustainable energy solutions.’ It may seem that the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, does not understand the seriousness of the energy shortage that this region will have. Does the Left believe that the factory ports should be closed as long as the test region is investigated? This is a disappointment. I had thought that the Left was a party for business development. That's where I was wrong! Such an investigation will take time – and I think then of the saying «the grass grows, the cow dies». Is that what the Left wants? Does Left really mean that you have time to wait? And does the Left disagree with the imposition of temporary measures such as mobile gas power plants and biopower plants to remedy a difficult situation? And what really is the alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1317	I must commend the replicant for his offensive attitude. The fact that representatives of the government parties today dare to raise issues related to Middle Norway impresses me. The proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left does not seek to do anything instead of other things, but to use this region where there is a need for new power, as a region where one with heavy promises renewable energy and saving, and both shows the opportunities that lie there, and gets the effect of it. So it's not supposed to replace other things. So the replicator is guilty of a misunderstanding when she suggests that investing in renewable energy sources has nothing to do with industrial policy. On the contrary, there are large opportunities for positive industrial development related to the more offensive use of renewable energy sources than the current government proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1326	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1330	Let me start with environmental policy. This should, in our view, be based on three main principles. One is that doubt must benefit nature, in other words lead to the precautionary principle. The second is the polluter-pays principle. And the third is that we have to use the best possible technology that is on the market at all times – and we have to do research in that direction too, so that we get the right technology. If you look at the budgetary position of the government parties, you see that we're doing a lot of work. We need to do that in environmental policy – we need to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. In the budget configuration, different sectoral approaches are taken. We have to think completely. We can set goals – and there are a lot of people who talk about them in capital letters, this has been the case for a long time – but we also have to deliver on these goals. Environmental policy, as I said, is the lack: it concerns several areas. That is why we now collect the car charges, which Stortinget has been talking about for years, but has not done anything about it. Now we put the lead in the case of cars in Norway: those that pollute at least will get benefits compared to those that pollute a lot. We have a large investment in public transport – on buses, on railways, etc. – precisely to be involved in and build up an environmental policy in this area as well. I hear nothing from the opposition that it is good that we now come in line with the national transport plan in Norway for the first time in several decades. We also take action on the Ministry of Defence, which will launch strong environmental measures in our high-mountain areas. It's important grips. Furthermore, we are taking action on agriculture, and on the Ministry of Justice. We put formidable sums on CO2 handling at the gas power plant at Kårstø, among others. We're arresting the Department of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, etc. That's the whole picture you have to look at. You have to do something. It is also important now that people think that environmental policy needs to be put higher on the agenda, that we deliver. And we have to deliver in a credible way, so that people feel that they are involved in this, and they see that you have alternatives. The list can be made long: we also complete our liming operations in the watercourses. We do not stop there, but continue in the fight against ‘gyro’, in the purchase of open-air areas, etc. It worries me a little bit, I have to say, not the whole Storting agrees on how to deal with the major environmental pollution, not only nationally, but also internationally. We'll probably get back to that, but we also have to have perspectives here. We have to take responsibility for the increased share of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. We must also take responsibility for the rapid reduction of diversity in nature – animal species, rainforest, etc. We're getting this more and more exemplified. I'm convinced that people say here we have to do something, because we are happy with this diversity, and we have to take care of it. We also need to take responsibility for the release of hazardous chemicals for health and the environment. We have the chance of time. The majority have to do something, and we have possibilities for that now. If we look at the energy field, we see that there are one of the biggest challenges now. We have a power loss. There's no doubt about it. And it makes us more dependent on imports of coal power and nuclear power. That is why we now need to put all the cloths in order to get new renewable energy up and go to Norway, so that in a normal year we can be self-sufficient. In the case of the petroleum activity, which accounts for some of the largest emissions of CO2, we must have a strong word in the team. We must also give leadership to this industry: they must be on the fission layer in order to reduce the pollutant emissions. We have to recognise that the world needs more energy, but then we must not be pointless about our energy production. We have a commitment as a wholesaler of fossil fuels, on which we have made a lot of money, and a moral responsibility to be involved in building up an industry and a consumption that goes in the right direction in terms of the planet's future. In the petroleum industry, there is a great value creation. It is important for us that the overall policy for this industry is value creation, employment and not least competence, so that we get good, efficient and environmental exploitation. The basis for the great plan for the northern regions that we adopted in June this year is the coexistence that we have to embrace, between fisheries, maritime transport and petroleum activities. It's the pillar of our management plan, which we are now going to go further in terms of this vulnerable area. We are now building gas power plants on Kårstø. We put in large sums to get CO2 cleaning in place by the end of 2009. This will be the first sewage treatment plant of its kind in use. We're in the driver's seat for the future of new clean-up technology. In the case of Mongstad, the situation is clarified. In the case of Forests, Aukras and Tents, there are discussions. This is industrial construction – a co-existence between industry and authorities in such a way that we can safeguard the environment in the future. It's partnership, interaction, etc. There are many who criticize us for actually getting a fund for investing in new renewable energy. I notice that. But there is also a historical commitment in this area, and that is something we need to address. What is now important – I was involved in energy conversion and in the energy situation – is that the government is now starting work on reviewing the Energy Act. And it shall not only be a review – a review shall also have a purpose: a significant clean-up shall be carried out, it shall be seen on the force balance, on the electricity prices and not least on the structure of the power industry. All of this is about to be reviewed. That's what we're asking questions about. And we have to get a law in place, so people don't feel like we're exporting everything abroad and sitting with empty pools here in Norway. If there are bottlenecks in the Energy Act, it shall be taken seriously and cleaned up. So finally, some questions have been asked about gas pipes, about the use of gas in Norway, domestically. It's very important when we have so much production in this field, that we also supply the nation with this important raw material. We have to take it into our society. Therefore, the border gas pipeline is one of the main priority areas. The government is working too hard on that right now. This is where it has to be delivered. This is about the entire industrial establishment, not only in the lower Telemarks region, but in the entire eastern region and the west coast of Sweden. There are perspectives in this bet, and I am well aware that you have now come quite far. The government has been sitting for probably one year. We've got the operational in place – to investigate, lay leadership, talk to the industry, etc. – to establish this, as I said, as a coexistence between industry and the authorities. I have great expectations of that. I think it's going to go in a box, and that we can once again get a new build-up of industry in Norway based on this good raw material that we have on a Norwegian base, which is to be managed in an environmentally correct and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1384	It was interesting to listen to the representative Nordtun's very committed posts. He said that in the case of gas to Grenland, it should be delivered. We know that the work on gas pipelines to Grenland is well advanced, and it is now in a very important phase. In order to realise this major and important gas pipeline project, it is essential that the State commits itself to taking significant financial responsibility. I would like the Workers' Party to clarify its position with regard to gas pipes to Grenland, more specifically, by stating clearly which financial obligations the Workers' Party believes the State should guarantee in this matter. Is it e.g. so that the Workers' Party in this case agrees with the Advance Party that the Government and the State must secure and guarantee sufficient capital so that the gas pipeline to Grenland can be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1391	I thank you for the line. This case is not new to the Government and the three parties behind the Soria Moria statement. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly states – and that is what you are now working on – that the state, through any state company, will finance the construction of this pipeline. How much of the government will go into this project, I don't want to answer here. I do not have a basis for making a decision now. But what's quite clear is that the state needs to commit itself strongly to get this done. And if the State has to bring capital into a company, this must also be assessed to the greatest extent. I also said that in my previous post. What's clear is that the state has already been high on the track here, and still is. I am thinking about Gassco, Petoro, etc., which is part of this planning work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1398	Environmentally, the past 24 hours have been very sad. Yesterday it came out that Statnet is going to purchase three mobile gas power for the net sum of NOK 2 billion in central Norway. Last night, the board of Nord-Trøndelag Elverk concluded that a large number of windmills – 99 in total – would be 250 MW. The well-known centre party man, Kolbjørn Almlid, who is the director of the Nord-Trøndelag Elverk, says they are dropping it because the support schemes for renewable energy investment are too poor. The government has DKK 2 billion to spend on mobile gas power plants, which are emission bombs, but has set up a support scheme that will put many renewable energy projects on ice. It's historically bad. Can Tore Nordtun now promise that there will be improvements in the support scheme, so that we in Norway will also receive more renewable energy instead of just mobile gas plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1405	It is not so fun if someone has made everyday life a little uncomfortable for Børge Burnde. But I think he has to live with that we have a majority government that takes initiative and decides some things. I would think that the pipe had a different sound at Børge Burnde if we hadn't done anything to Middle Norway. The representative Børge Brende must be aware that we are delivering in this area, both in terms of security of supply and new renewable energy. We go in with $20 billion, which is a historic investment. The representative Børge Burnde was still pointing to some potterial alternatives during the four years he was in government. But I have not seen that this pot has come up for serving at all. I don't know what this pot contains. We have supplied wind power, bioenergy, etc.. I agree with Mr Burnde that it is regrettable that there will be no full expansion in this area. But we've put the leaders at the bottom of this bet, even within wind power, with the 8 ears that I think are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1412	Tore Nordtun is a habild chef. It's not me. I will nevertheless undertake to guide him a little in the pots. Yesterday it was decided that the Outer Viking wind farm should be reduced by two thirds. The project was ready-to-use – and not just that: they had been granted a concession and could provide up to 40,000 households with electricity. Then they said that the scheme that the Government has come with is not enough to provide an economic basis for realising this project. It does not only apply to this project. The same applies to nine out of ten wind power projects, which conclude that the government's historic bet is a bluff. It is not possible to obtain economics in the projects on this basis. It might be interesting to get a guide from the Nordtun representative: what is he looking at that will trigger this kind of wind power project and that those who work with the projects and have full insight, don't see?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1421	As for the right that I mentioned for the previous replicator, I don't know what it contains, because I've been asking for it for over a year. The previous government had four years on it and delivered nothing in this area. We have delivered, and it is quite clear what we have delivered, and I have said that before, among other things. Eight cents per cent. kWh for wind power, immature technologies, electricity production based on biotechnology will receive 10 øre per. kWh, etc. That's what we've now put on the table, that's what we want to bet on, and it's in these areas it's going to be rusted up. And I'm really hoping that there'll be a good speed on it. That's also the signal we've been given. In the case of nine out of ten who now say no, as the representative Kvassheim claimed, I do not know about it. I have registered what happened at Vikna. The assessment you make must be up to each company. But in the past, there have never been such concrete measures to address this new renewable energy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1428	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1431	Norway is an energy storm power. We have significant reserves of gas, oil and hydropower, a lot of wind, bio and wave energy and a capable solar photovoltaic industry. There is no lack of political pride in talking about this, and there are many promises that Norway will be an energy nation. But unfortunately, there is a lack of follow-up, because despite Tore Nordtun's and others' great words, there is little substance in what is delivered. Both oil, energy and environmental policies have been characterised by internal conflicts in the Government and by logical shortcomings. Therefore, I will use the post to take some of the most important areas of petroleum and energy and challenge the Council of State to provide clarifications and not least obligations in relation to when the Government will deliver. And just to clarify: Much of the environmental policy of the Progress Party will be delivered in the article from Tord Lien later today. First, the petroleum industry. It is a very important industry for Norway. Prosperity, employment and value added depend largely on a good petroleum industry. It is therefore important that this industry has long-term and predictable framework conditions and a long-term predictable approach from policy environments, not least. Two major areas for the development of this policy area are access to exploration and technology development. To take petroleum research first: approx. 3 billion DKK in petroleum research in Norway today. The state accounts for approx. 10-15 pst. of this, despite the fact that the state is running away with most of the value creation here. It is almost embarrassing, on behalf of the political environment, to see the distribution of research resources relative to what one is taking in. The Progress Party has tried several times to propose a petroleum and energy research fund of DKK 10 billion which, at least, makes the State take a larger share and a predictable share. Unfortunately, that proposal was voted down in the financial debate. But what is even more tragic is that a government that in the election campaign talked so much about research fails in so many areas of research policy, including in petroleum research. I'm sorry. So to the north, the government has been talking a lot about offensive Northern Region policy. There have been beautiful promises, which were repeated not later than when the North Region Communication was submitted last Friday. There we also see that there is a lack of follow-up. Here they've had a year to deliver, but what's in the budget? Indeed, the focus of the petroleum policy for the north shall be on access and acquisition of information before a person can decide to open Northland VI, Northland VII, Troms II – to open them. And what do we see? Well, the government estimates that this acquisition work will cost 420 million. kr. They'll give 60 million. kr in the first year. The problem is that this can't go beyond many years and say that the 420 million. NOK will come over seven years, because we have undertaken that in 2010 the Storting will take this matter up again for evaluation. This means that the information collection should take place as early as 2007 and no later than 2008, so it was time to process it. Here one actually fears that SV has linked itself to the Ministry of Oil and Energy just to train this work. Unfortunately, SV has tended to link to other oil companies in the north. I hope that the Council of State will ensure that one keeps the progress that everyone thought you should have in the case of petroleum. That's what gas is. Here, it's very hard to understand the logic that characterizes the government. Every time we sell gas abroad, we're proud. The Prime Minister has been both in Germany and in England and promoted gas supplies, but every time we talk about using it in Norway, one is ashamed. The batch of progress wants to increase the use of gas. There is a good potential in industry, in households and in power generation, and if the gas is not good enough to be used here, neither should one sell it to the rest of the world, because at least there is no clean-up of emissions abroad. Then I'll take up two things – first infrastructure for Grenland. The Labour Party representative talked a lot about this. The demands of the Workers' Party were harsh when they were in opposition. There was no way how much criticism the Bondevik II government got. When the Workers' Party has then come into office, they change farms on the same premises that Bondevik II founded. After seven years of investigation, you still can't make a decision. The Progress Party proposed that the State should be responsible for the main infrastructure of natural gas, with a budget of DKK 5 billion for this work. The proposal is identical to what the Workers' Party had when they were in opposition, but now it is voting against. Now it's only if, if, maybe, and if we hear from the Workers' Party. The natural gas tax also shows that there is no logic in the government. The size has for four to five years signalled increasing the use of natural gas and building natural gas infrastructure, so when Light Gass has now done so, customers are charged a CO2 charge that is in fact 20 times higher than that of the large industry on the use of the same gas. Gas power plants have become the great foie gras of the Government, and we are almost tempted to listen to the old series of «Deflections» where they ask, what happens in the next episode of «Deflections»? There has been a significant shift in the government in general and in SV in particular. This glide flight has gone in the direction of the Progress Party, and we are satisfied with that. But the lack of predictability it represents seems very poor, and affects investment decisions taken in Industrial Power Moors, Battle tangents and Grenland, which are some of the latest new projects that have emerged. Now no one knows what they have to deal with. Then I can ask: Do large industrial companies specify how to spend money to project large projects, when they do not know what conditions they have to deal with? The Progress Party has repeatedly put forward proposals at Stortinget to clarify this. Allow the construction of gas power plants with the best available technology and let the State take responsibility for the CO2 value chain. Then you get one clear, one gets rid of the risk, and one gets the economy in place. Unfortunately, this has been voted down. It would have been nice if we could have a clarification today of what the Government will do in view of this, both the Tent Devotion, the Battle Bar, Grenland and elsewhere, and not least the two coal-fired power stations that have come up. CO2 cleaning has become the most symbolic debate in Norwegian policy. I would then like to say a little about Kårstø, which the Workers' Party was in. Kårstø has become a purely performance project. It gives very poor use of resources no matter how you turn around and turn it around. From an environmental point of view and from an energy point of view, money is wasted on luxury. But there is clearly nothing that the government has against, when we see how they will also spend money on mobile gas plants. In the budgetary process, the Committee has asked a number of questions. How much will the Kårstø cleaning cost? How much is it going to cost to operate? What kind of CO2 results will a few of this? We don't get any answers to anything. Nevertheless, Stortinget today agreed to start with 720 million. kr to a project of which no one knows the scope, a project of which the Minister of Energy, in addition to the questionnaire just a month ago, said in reality was a blank track, because it was a technology that would not be applicable in many other cases. Environmental policies must not be decoupled from the requirement of rational use of resources. The Progress Party supports the processes that are under way on Mongstad and the Tjeldbergodden. There's a good run where a commitment to technology development and potential mapping, then making a decision as to whether there's good projects compared to alternatives. If the government is actually going to have something to boast about, they should add up to the same projects at Kårstø, so that you know that you get something left for the money. Should there be a reality in the story of CO2, the government should require its own power company to have CO2 cleaning also on gas plants they build abroad. We don't see that happening. So it's just symbol politics. It is paradoxical that the Progress Party is the party that pursues a policy that is most in line with the approach underlying the Kyoto agreement, namely international solutions to problems, where the best measures are to be taken first, and where CO2 cleaning is not to be carried out at all costs. When you know that there is one coal-fired power plant opened per. It's strange that in Norway we only look at gas power cleaning. I challenge the Government to clarify this with the CO2 requirement and state commitment and get more good, permanent solutions in place, instead of poor, mobile solutions. Then I'd like to mention the debate we had about using thorium. If we mean something about being an energy nation that's going to help get more energy in the world, and not just clean emissions, it's thorium you should look at more. CO2 cleaning does not contribute to bringing more energy into the world. A consumer energy but cleans emissions. That is good, but there is no solution to the energy problem. I would therefore ask the Council of State to give a little feedback on the progress of the investigation that he promised in the debate on thorium. In terms of energy, unfortunately, what I've shown you now is just a small part of the iceberg in the whole energy policy – where a lot of promises, but not delivers. There was to be a Middle Norway plan, the representative promised Aasland when we discussed the power situation in Trøndelag before the summer. Where's that plan? It was to come early in the harvest. And then the best investment in renewable energy was to be made. The big message that was submitted after eight to nine months, while it was to take a couple of weeks, it's on four pages. Going back to the big news from the Bondevik government, I think the mention of green certificates there is more than the entire content of the big news about the time's commitment to renewable energy. It's embarrassing. There are generally unclear framework conditions for much of the power generation. The industrial power regime, where did it go? Is it before Christmas that Ola Borten Moe promised in a debate on Energy 2006? Where is the immediate bet to come to Mongstad? I don't see a penny in the budget. Where is the two-price system that Nordtun's representative said was not up to date, but as the representative Borten Moe said he would come? When does the evaluation of the Energy Act come? And: The Energy Act was evaluated no later than May 2005, even though the representative Borten Moe says it has never been evaluated. I also noticed that several red-green representatives in August recommended people to bind the electricity price. I hope they didn't, because then the electricity price was 75 cents. There has been a messy policy on energy and the environment from the Government. I hope you can try to clear up a little bit of all the misunderstandings they've had inside the government in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1500	The President has a strong suspicion that the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1504	I am dealing with the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own, or are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1509	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1514	I listened with excitement to Ketil Solvik-Olsen's contributions to international environmental policy, but there was no such thing as that. I have read the comments of the Progress Party in the setting, and will ask for clarification in this area. I quote: ‘The Kyoto Agreement is interpreted too strictly by the majority of the population. The focus of climate and environmental policies must be to maximise the environment of the money used, not to allow emission reductions to take place on global challenges in certain geographical areas.’ I notice that the Progress Party cuts the full entry for national and international environmental measures, as well as the entry for local environmental protection and action in national parks. Can we get an explanation from the Progress Party, which is now the second largest party in Norway, whether they have a consensus on the international commitments, or whether they are actually taking the emissions that the whole world is now becoming aware of, seriously internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1528	As I mentioned at the beginning of my article, much of the environmental policy will be covered in the article of Tord Lien. But let me mention the thorium work that the Progress Party is trying to get started. There are environmental and energy policies at the highest level. There you can replace today's polluting coal-fired power plant with much more environmentally friendly solutions. We had a commitment to renewable energy, where the Bondevik II government actually worked for four years to put in place green certificates, supported by all parties on the Stortinget. The first thing this government did was scrape the whole bet and come up with a scheme that was much worse. Global CO2 Actions: The Progress Party Cuts Kårstø, because it is a bad project. But we support the process around the Tent Goods and Mongstad, because that's where you get the technology development going. Rather, we will have long-term, robust solutions that provide good environmental impacts in the long term, rather than poor solutions that are quickly implemented and undermine the full confidence in the environmental work that everyone wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1542	Globally, a United Nations report presented in 2004 shows that it is likely to disappear about 100 species from the Earth’s surface every day. A species disappears, disappears forever. This means that approx. 40,000 species disappear globally during the year. Yesterday, we also got a red list for Norway, where it turns out that many species in Norway are also threatened. Norway has made international commitments, including: in Johannesburg, to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2010. What are the thoughts of the Progress Party about the management responsibility and the responsibility we have in this generation for not destroying the diversity of species? What concrete action will the Progress Party take to prevent loss of species diversity in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1551	This is, of course, relevant in relation to the work done on the Storing in the previous period, when addressing the biodiversity issue. At that time, the Progress Party was, among other things, contribute to the establishment of the Art Database, which contributes to this work. We think it is very good that a constructive effort is being made to map the scope. There are also some species that we agree that we should preserve. That's what we're going to do in line with everyone else on Stortinget. There's no disagreement. Where there may be some disagreement between the Advance Party and some other parties, is about some of the species that you rediscover. For the population of predators in Norway, for example: wolf on the red list, if I am not completely wrong, but it is no longer genetically special for Norway. The question is, is it the desire to have wolves that are the most important, or is it the desire to take care of genetically special species? Then we think a little bit of the red list that comes out is more political than just biologically motivated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1558	I have three specific questions for the Advancementpath, to which I just want simple, concrete answers. The first is: does the Progress Party agree with the conclusions of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change that the climate change we are experiencing now is man-made? Second: does the Progress Party want a global agreement to reduce CO2 emissions? And thirdly, the Progress Party voted against the Kyoto climate agreement in the Great Britain last period. Have you now changed your point of view and supported the agreement? Three simple questions: Do you agree with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change? Would you like a global agreement to reduce CO2 emissions? Do you support the Kyoto agreement today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1577	International environmental challenges need to be addressed by international agreements — so yes, global agreements are important. The Kyoto Agreement is not a good deal in relation to the objectives it pursues. Therefore, the Progress Party will not support the Kyoto agreement as it is, but we accept that it is there. As long as the Storting has ratified it, we will be involved in the debate on how to implement the measures imposed on us by the Storting. Then very much of the approach taken by the Government is poor, because there are expensive measures in relation to the effect they have. The Kårstø plant is one example. The policy of gas power in central Norway, which allows mobile gas power plants, but does not allow conventional gas power plants, is also a bad example of how the government's environmental policy is not linked. In the case of man-made climate change, we are waiting for the next report. We're recording that there's a lot of work going on around climate change, where some scientists say that CO2 affects the climate, but to what extent is there a very big disagreement about it? The progress party has never denied that CO2 is a greenhouse gas. We also need to record the debate on the extent to which CO2 changes contribute to changing the climate. When, for example: they're working on an atmosphere model in CERN, we think it's very exciting. It gives a broad picture of what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1595	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1598	Over the 100 years that we have ahead of us, we're probably changing the average temperature of the Earth more than in the 10,000 years that have gone since the last ice age. There is a development that cannot be continued, and Norway has both a national and not least a global responsibility to put in place a climate regime covering all countries, including middle-income countries. But we're also going to make a effort here nationally. At the United Nations Environment Summit in Johannesburg in 2002, 10 years after the Rio Summit, world leaders agreed that an important prerequisite for achieving the goal of preventing global climate change, which is devastating to the global environment, was a major commitment to renewable energy. Not least we need to put in place regional quota systems. During the previous ageing period, we took the initiative to put a greenhouse gas allowance system in place in Norway. We were leading on that point. We got that through in the Storting, in cooperation with the Socialist Left Party, the Bondevik II government. The Labour Party resigned from that debate. It also belongs in the overall picture. We then started an important effort to put in place more renewable energy, in close cooperation with Sweden, which then introduced a system of green certificates. The text of the law was sent to the hearing, and the conversations with Sweden went well. There were some deferrals, and Sweden was exposed to this. Then we ended up in the situation that with the new government negotiations with Sweden took place. When the negotiations broke down, Mr. Odd Roger Enoksen, both here in the Chamber and in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, confirmed that we should have a system of at least the same quality in place through the fund that was to be managed by Enova – at least as well. As I said in one line: The last day has actually been a sad day environmental for Norway. What the Minister for the Environment said this summer was not relevant, getting polluting, mobile gas power plants, is now being implemented through State resources through Statnet. They are not just to be rented. They were supposed to, but then they found out after three quarters of a year that they were rented to Iraq, and now they are going to buy mobile gas plants, which are going to be temporary, at the net price of NOK 2 billion. And now the Minister for the Environment is partly in favour. It would have been interesting later today to know the degree of enthusiasm of the Environment Minister linked to these mobile gas power plants. But now we're going to spend NOK 2 billion on mobile gas plants. Just a few hours later, a press release from the Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plant is coming out, which drops a large-scale wind power development on the Trøndelag coast – in the middle of the area where you can experience a power crisis in the years to come. And there's a lot of power being dropped. There is power that could have gone to 40,000 households in central Norway, which is now being dropped. Since you don't put so much emphasis on what the opposition is saying in that context, I'll quote director Kolbjørn Almlid, the Center Party, in the Nord-Trøndelag Electricity Works, which says ‘the limited deployment is the direct result of weak aid schemes. It is very disappointing that the government’s earlier expressed strong desire for comprehensive wind power development in Norway’ — including renewable investment —’has not been followed up by support schemes to build the concessional wind farms. And then, in this debate, the Labour Party makes itself say that it is a 'historical bet'! Yeah, it's a historically bad bet compared to what we could get with the green certificates. In Sweden, renewable projects will be stimulated by 20 cents. In Norway, wind power projects are being fed with eight ears, while in its large-scale environmental policy spin-off, as described by SV, the government goes in to purchase mobile gas power plants that pollute twice as much as a normal gas power plant and cost twice as much when they produce electricity. You can afford that! I think it would be nice if, in the course of the day, the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy and the Minister for the Environment could clarify whether the Government is taking this seriously so that we are now willing to see whether the support system that has been developed can be improved, so that we in Norway too can do part of our job of investing in renewable energy, because we are not going to get this in place. The wind power unit says that nine out of ten power projects are now being dropped. I do not think we will see many bioenergy projects and mini- and micro-power plants in the future, at least in relation to the potential we have, of 15 TWh – corresponding to 30 Alta power plants – that can be used for renewable energy in Norway, so that Norway can lift the bump and be proud of what we are doing on this side as well. The government has to take self-criticism, and must admit that the system we got was not similar to what we got in Sweden, and was not as good as the green certificates would have been. At least it's not good enough to realize what we want. In this room there have been very many broken promises by the Government relating to the energy and environment area. The reason we have a discussion that is so fragmented, related to wind power and mobile gas power plants, is that we have not got a complete plan. In the spring, when we discussed this and pressed the oil and energy minister on this issue, he said, "Wait now for the action plan I am going to present, related to the power crisis in Central Norway. It's coming early in the fall. Early in the harvest! Now we are soon at the end of this session, in December, and no action plan has come, but we get fragments. Even if we could see this in context, so you had an offensive bet that the opposition could also have been on? I would have liked to have cooperated with the Government to create a constructive action plan. Everyone has to be willing to put their captors on the stable to solve the crisis you're facing in central Norway. It's not a crisis, it's a decision-making crisis. Gas-fired power plants can be put in place on the Tent Goods, you can get them in the Forest, you can use renewable energy – you have a lot of good projects that can be carried out. Today, there is also some uncertainty about this action plan. Is it presented now, or isn't it? In the past, the oil-energy minister went out and told the Address Paper that an action plan was not needed. Then he arrived the next day in Stortinget and said it was coming, but we can't say when. In political quarters today early he said that the long-term measures have not been put in place. Now I read at NTB, just when I went into the hall, that the crisis package was presented – four hours after the oil and energy minister thought it was impossible to say when it came! I do not know whether the Minister of Oil and Energy has spoken to the Prime Minister about this, but during the Middle Norwegian oil and gas conference on Thursday – that is today – Stoltenberg presented the government's announced plan for the power supply to Middle Norway. This is not from the Røjre Press Bureau – otherwise it no longer exists – but from the Norwegian Telegram Bureau. The crisis package is in five points, and then it comes from NTB: ‘and does not contain many new elements’. No, I've looked at these elements. It's nothing new. So we're going to hope that during the course of the day we'll find out, when will the crisis package come? Do you want to cooperate with the opposition to try to get something we can gather around? Or is it that the crisis package has been presented by the Prime Minister today – in five points that contain nothing new? I hope that today's debate will also reveal the remedial measures that will be taken against Middle Norway. In our speech I made a proposal from this House that we should not set up our own price range in Central Norway. State Council Enoch went up to the pulpit and said it was unnecessary, because it wouldn't happen. On 20 November, a separate price range for electricity was introduced in mid-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1635	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1639	Thank you for the reminder, President! I take up the Right proposal and the proposals from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1644	The representative Børge Burnde has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1649	The representative, Børge Brende, held a remarkably high profile in his criticism of the current government, especially with regard to the responsibility for the lack of power production in Central Norway, which is a hot topic today and to the extent that it has been so in the past. The representative Brende sits in Stortinget, and he has four years of government experience. He knows that it takes time from decisions to one has production in place. On this basis, it is natural for me to ask the representative Børge Burnde what measures his government – i.e. Bondevik II – had to put in place the gas power production in Central Norway, i.e. the production that can fill the gap that needs to be filled?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1656	First, I would like to stress that in my speech I now said that we are facing a ‘decision crisis’ – there is no crisis! It is fully possible to come up with measures that can prevent us from having a power crisis in Middle Norway, and I have invited you to cooperate on this. With regard to the period when we were in government, we built up more hydropower than we did throughout the 1990s. We renewed the concession to the gas power plant in Forest, so that it would be put in place. We also worked intensively to put in place the green certificates, which would mean a completely different incentive for renewable energy – in line with Sweden, which now has 25 pst. by their power grid with renewable energy, if I understand it correctly. These were historical opportunities, historical opportunities, which we have now seen were not implemented. When it came to gas, as Minister for the Environment, I said yes to the gas power plant at Snow White. Then there were actually representatives here in the hall who were sitting outside my office and demonstrating. We also made an investment decision related to the gas power plant at Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1665	We agree that we have seen a lack of energy policy action. The energy situation is difficult, and we have not got a breakthrough from this government. Thus, mobile gas power plants become a monument to a long-term energy policy that is paralysed. What the representative Brande addresses in the context of the energy state plan of the Reich is entirely in line with the policy of the Progress Party, and it is good to see that the Right Party and the Progress Party now agree on the short-term measures to address the power situation. But in a matter of the state of energy of the kingdom, it would also be desirable to look at longer-term measures, and then the question of thorium comes up. Of many, it was promoted as one of the good environmental and energy solutions to the world's energy supply for a long time to come. 2 billion will be used for mobile gas power plants – half of what is needed to build a pilot plant for thorium. How will the Right address a possible thorium project?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1672	The reason why the Right has opposed traditional nuclear power is that in one or two generations we create a waste problem that thousands of generations after us have to deal with. If it is the case that research and pilot projects now show that thorium does not have the negative characteristics of traditional nuclear power – and there are indications of this – this is a significant possibility in the long term. Then I'm talking about a 20-year perspective. I think it should be given credit to the Progress Party for raising this debate. I have been a little surprised that the Minister of Oil and Energy has been so reprehensible for research and also for a review of the potential of thorium. It won't hurt! We know that there are also many of the necessary elements in Norway, so we are not negative to that initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1679	In the last week, we have seen the representative Burnde swing in the media, claiming that while he was the Minister for the Environment, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway fell, as they now increase. I believe it is a rhetoric that is not worthy of a former Minister for the Environment. Mr Brende became a well-known Minister for the Environment in 2001 and left in 2004. The emissions during that period were: when he started, 54.8 million. And then he ended, 54.9 million. tonnes — during that period there had been a small hump. It was believed that Børge Burnde believed that Knut Arild Hareide and Helen Bjørnøy – who shared the year 2005 – were much more effective as environmental protection ministers than Børge Burnde, because the emissions were down to 54.2 million. tonnes. But with all due respect: isn't this just nonsense with numbers and a rhetoric a former environmental protection minister should stay too good to join?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1686	I agree that the representative Sørensen is now fooling with numbers! When I've used these figures to illustrate a development – and not least Heidi Sørensen has previously been concerned with producing that kind of emissions – I've used the figures from 2001 to 2005. This is a response from Environment Minister Helen Bjørnøy to the Committee, which showed that during the period 2001–2005, under the Bondevik Government, greenhouse gas emissions did not increase in Norway, in which case they increased very marginally. I actually think it could have been a little bit of a decline as well. The reason why I've used those numbers is because it illustrates that it's actually possible to increase energy use, but in such a way that you get more out of less. It will also be the major global challenge in the future. Therefore, it is important to underline these figures, and it will be exciting to see how they develop in the years to come with an SV Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1695	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1698	New Year's Eve, I and the man are waiting for my child. Now I've been pregnant for almost nine months, and it's not free to think about what the world and what life the baby will have. I think that all permanent parents get a kind of urge to think a little bit longer than you've done before. For me it has e.g. become a small aha experience that 2050 is no longer a distant future, but a time when my future daughter will not even have reached the age of 50. While I've been pregnant, new and alarming reports of Earth's environmental state have been published, and we are today experiencing a global awakening of how serious the environmental threat is. The Greenland ice melts, and it happens faster than we've thought before. Disappearing the Greenland ice, the world's oceans will increase by seven meters. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that over the next century sea levels can increase by as much as a full metre. One meter of sea increase is changing the geography. One meter of sea increase is equal to half Bangladesh. The threat to the climate is the greatest environmental challenge facing humanity. In the autumn, the British government was presented with the Stern report, which states that the cost of doing nothing about climate change is astronomical, while action is worthwhile — the earlier, the better, both for nature and for the economy. In Norway, the Government of the Minister for the Environment has received the recommendation of the Committee on Low Emissions, which describes how we in Norway can reduce emissions by 50–80 pst. by 2050. The head of the sample, Jørgen Randers, said when he presented the report, that it says that this is not impossible expensive. And then he added that had he should certainly have himself, he would have written that it was furiously cheap. If we are able to follow up the setting of the Low Emissions Committee and reduce emissions by two thirds by 2050, there is an inheritance I would be proud to give to my daughter when she rounds 50. The environmental effort goes like a green thread through the entire state budget. The total environmental budget for 2007 has been estimated at DKK 23.3 billion, compared with around DKK 20.5 billion in 2006. This is an increase of NOK 3 billion, or 15 pst., and shows that the government prioritises environmental protection high. Let me draw out some things in particular: the appropriations for CO2 cleaning over 780 million. kr, the increase in grants for new renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement by 50 pst. in one year, the investment on the railway – NOK 1 billion more, or also an increase of 50 pst. – the conversion to more environmentally friendly taxes and, in the end, not least the escalation we have achieved in the context of environmental development cooperation. The low-carbon sample says that CO2 cleaning is one of the most important measures we can take to reduce CO2 emissions. So in the budget, it's 720 million. kr for cleaning at Kårstø in 2007. It is right for Norway to have an ambition to be world leaders in the capture and deposit of the value chain related to CO2. It is wise for the Government to prioritise so that we can help develop technologies that reduce the cost of CO2 capture and landfilling so that this can become a technology that can be put into use on a large scale worldwide. We have a vision that Norway should be an environmentally friendly energy nation. The budget shall establish a basic renewable energy fund and energy efficiency improvement. There has been a lot of criticism of this today, but I am aware that there are no parties that are going to vote against the fund's appearance today. Let me also say that just from 2006 to 2007 it's 50 pst. increase in everything called support measures for energy efficiency improvement and new renewable energy. I'll call it a good start. So I'm glad we have an impatient opposition that wants even more bet, but it's 50 pst. more than the Bondevik II government received. In addition, in the State budget, we are taking some important steps in the field of environmental taxes, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have been able to convert the car charges in one year, and this will help reduce emissions. The same will be true of the proposal to introduce a CO2 tax on gas. In the transport sector, we've got a big hit on the railway, one billion more to the railway in one year. That's a lot. It is filling up the national transport plan. As a former member of the Committee on Transport, I must say that I am particularly pleased with that. The railway effort will also help to reduce local air pollution and, of course, contribute to reducing emissions. In the budget, the appropriations for environmental development are also increasing by 350 million. kr. This is a huge increase. This could help to save the rainforest, for example. in Asia, Amazon and Africa, and ensure the livelihood of people living in and depending on the rainforest. It's urgent to save the rain forest. Each year, rainforests disappear corresponding to half of Norway’s area. It is forest of plant and animal species that disappears forever. I am pleased that the Government has as its goal that we should be world leaders in the field of environmental development. In Norway, too, we are committed to caring for plant and animal species. The Storting and the Government have a common goal of halting the eradication of species by 2010. It is an ambitious objective, which requires increased efforts and new measures to succeed. We only have three years to stop this development. Yesterday, the Species Database presented the new redlist of endangered plant and animal species in Norway. They have assessed no less than 18500 species. Of the species assessed, 3,800 are listed as threatened or vulnerable. That's the challenge we're facing. The species are threatened in Norway because their habitats disappear. It takes place through the development, logging, modern agriculture and drainage of wetlands. Half of the endangered plant and animal species are in the forest. How we manage and protect our forests is absolutely vital if we are able to take care of the species diversity for the future. In the state budget, appropriations for new forest protection are increasing — not being reduced, as the representative of Kvassheim claimed. So it's important to realize that we're saying that in addition to the increase in the state budget, the protection of the Trillemark area is going to be financed as a separate matter that comes over Christmas. Now I don't know what ambitions the representative of Kvassheim has for protection in Trillemarka, but almost regardless of the level of ambition, it will mean that next year will be that year through the times when we spend the most on forest protection, and not least, as Kvassheim tries to present it as. I am also pleased that the budget in this area, which is about biodiversity and promoting outdoor life for 2007, is being increased by 10 pst. compared to 2006. Norway alone manages the last remnants of the European wild-leaf strain. Norway is the only country in Europe with an intact high-mountain ecosystem, and therefore the wild rain is a Norwegian species of responsibility. That's so great what we're running. If you stand on Hardangervida and see – as you can often see – a flock of several thousand animals moving from winter pasture to summer pasture, then you go to Serengeti, where the gnu is walking, to find something similar, or to Canada to see the Caribbean hike there. We are responsible for taking care of this for future generations. The wild reindeer centres, as we established in the context of the revised national budget, shall be the key to preserving the wild reindeer population. That is why I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee is increasing the appropriations for the wild reindeer centres in order to strengthen this work. Let me take a little visit to the Advance Party budget, which shows that they are raging the Ministry of the Environment's budget. They're making 387.2 million. kr. The consequences will be that international environmental work is fraught with broken back, and all efforts to address the diversity of species in Norway are fraught with back. In addition, all clean-up of CO2 is cut and the climate work will also lie with your broken back. Norway might then compete with Bush about being the worst in the class. It must be a dilemma for the Christian People's Party and the Left to have such partners. Finally, let me say, we have an ambition to return to Norway as an environmental nation. This spring, we will mark the 20th anniversary of the Brundtland report. Then we're going to do what she said at the time: we're going to think globally and act locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1769	Reasonable use of resources has never been a strong side of SV, and that is confirmed in today's articles. The government is working to spend $2 million. kr in mobile gas power plants, rather than using the same means to complete large permanent power plants, or at least to accelerate them. Then the representative boasts Sørensen that it is granted 720 million. kr for CO2 cleaning on Kårstø. That's a lot of hundreds of millions of dollars less than what Sørensen demanded last year at this time in the newspaper. But it is also alarming that this technology at Kårstø will not be applicable in many other places, according to the Minister of Energy from the Red-Green Government. No funds have been allocated to the CO2 projects on Mongstad and the Tjeldbergodden. There, the Advance Party grants money, so Sørensen is wrong in his post. Nor is there any claim from the Government for CO2 clean-up on the state’s own power company, which builds gas power plants in Germany. I think you're going to have a snowmobile circuit if you think the rest of the world only looks at the CO2 cleaning of gas power plants. On the contrary, it's coal power you clean. Does the representative Sørensen think that China, Germany and other coal and gas power plants will clean their gas plants before they clean their coal plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1794	After the government joined, and after the start of work on Kårstø, Tjeldbergodden and Mongstad, Norwegian ministers have been around and been told about and asked to talk about what we are doing with CO2 cleaning. And many are interested. The British are interested, the whole EU system is interested, and we are in dialogue with China, which is interested. This has been a success. The fact that the Progress Party is going past it must be the problem of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has a net cut in CO2 clean-up that is very strong, and if we had implemented the Progress Party budget, we would have classed Bush to be the least climate-friendly nation in the world. Compared to the mobile reserve power ordered, there is also reason to remind the representative of Solvik-Olsen that mobile gas power growth can go on either renewable biofuels or natural gas. My advice in this respect to get zero emissions from them, too, will be to go on renewable biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1809	After all, if they passed over the country, both before and after the elections, with the message that they came to power, we would see an environmental breakthrough. Norway was to become an environmental policy priority country. After listening to Sørensen’s ten-minute posts, and after the year that has gone with SV in position, I can’t see or find in the budget what she said in her reply to Hareide a year ago, that a new government should carry out a turnaround – an action plan – as a pattern for other countries. What is the big breakthrough that other countries can adopt? Is there new mobile gas power plant, is it cut in poison remediation, or is it oil business in the Barents Sea? The budget shows an increase of 1 pst. There is in no way an action plan or a reverse operation of which there is some kind of respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1818	Unfortunately, I do not have time to repeat my post. But let me take a few main points, if the representative of Kristiansen missed it: NOK 3 billion more on environmental measures in this budget than in the 2006 budget. That means an increase of 15 pst. One billion more to the railway. 780 million. kr more for CO2 cleaning, 50 pst. more for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, 350 million. kr more for environmental development cooperation. I think that €3 billion plus environmental measures above the state budget is a good start to what we are firmly committed to, and which is an ambition we are not at all riveting, namely to return to Norway as an environmental policy country. But if the representative Ivar Kristiansen thought it was done in a hand-turn after the previous regime we had, we don't share that perception. There is a great job to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1828	The representative Sørensen began to reflect on being pregnant and on how living conditions in the climate would be for the daughter in 2050. We in the Bondevik government did some work. We put down the Low Emissions Committee, which has now delivered the adjustment and proposed, which the representative Sørensen had in mind, furiously cheap measures. What amazes me a little, and I want to challenge the representative Sørensen, is if SV does not see the need for the Stortinget to take a general discussion about the input and strategies that the Low Emissions Committee has given us, because we do not know what the majority of this house will get after 2009. Now SV is in the majority. Is it not a good idea to use this majority to confirm the policy recommended by the Committee on Low Emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1835	I have previously praised former Environment Minister Knut Arild Hareide in this room for having put down the Low Emissions Committee. It was some of the better things we inherited from the previous government, and an inheritance we'll follow up. Let me answer two questions at the same time, because the representative Kvassheim also asked a question in his post that goes in the same direction as the question asked here by the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal. We want a broad discussion in the Storting of the measures proposed by the Low Emissions Committee. I also think it is a good idea that climate action should be anchored as widely as possible in the Stortinget. I would also like to agree with the representative of Kvassheim that climate issues are somewhat similar to pension issues. It's about long-termity. What is done must be anchored in a broad majority, so that it can last not only over major periods, but over decades, if, collectively, we are to have the opportunity to meet the major challenges we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1844	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1847	When we in the Christian People's Party presented our alternative budget for 2007, the proposal was named 'Another dance'. We presented a budget proposal that would give a greater environmental impact than the government proposed, and we did some action within the energy budget that would provide a better regional and environmental profile. Today is December 7. It's green out there. Many, especially children, would have snow. That it's green December 7th, we've experienced before. What's new is that the temperature we have out there makes the climate now on everyone's lips. This gives us an opportunity that we have to use, because the climate challenges are great. That is why it is very important that we comply with Norway's obligations under the Kyoto Agreement. If we're going to make it, we're going to have to reduce CO2 emissions. But it is also very important that we make sectoral plans for how to reduce these CO2 emissions, and that these plans have concrete targets, and also say how to achieve these targets. Sectoral plans that do not contain targets, or do not specifically specify how these are to be achieved, are not an effective tool – which we need on a green 7 December. The low-emission sample has shown that it is technologically and economically possible to reduce climate emissions by two thirds by 2050. Let's increase emissions, for example. in the petroleum sector, we need to reduce the strength of other sectors, for example: the transport sector. But if we are to succeed in that, we must be willing to make tough political choices, and then the question becomes to us all whether we are tough enough politically, whether we are tough enough politicians to make the choices and make the priorities that are necessary. I think we need to bet a lot more offensively on research than what today's government is doing. I am pleased with what Heidi Sørensen says, that she wants to discuss the position of the Committee on Emissions and their proposals in Stortinget, because in the vote the government parties say something quite different. On the part of the opposition, we have tried to be constructive and to propose this. Time has not yet expired. It is possible to vote in favour of this proposal later today. One of the government's crown examples of investing in climate policy is the allocation of something over 700 million. SEK to CO2 handling on Kårstø. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that the government is paying for CO2 management, but we are disappointed that the research funds are not increasing. But what's important about Kårstø is that the tempo plan is kept. There should be no uncertainty that the project will not be realised within the deadline set by the Soria Moria Declaration, i.e. 2009. I assume that this is no problem, since the Storting has not informed about anything else, and I therefore expect it to be easy for the two councillors we have in the Chamber today to confirm that the tempo plan is being maintained, as stated in the Soria Moria statement, in the case of Kårstø. We have heard earlier today that the representative from the Workers' Party will be on a gas pipeline to Grenland, the East and beyond to West Sweden. That's good. The fact that the Workers' Party is on the agreement from the previous period is good to hear. In the Christian People's Party, we are already ready to clarify the state's position within this project. In a majority comment on this, it is said that it is expected that the Government will put in place ‘necessary measures’ to realise a gas pipeline to Grenland. I think the project now needs us to bring the commitments that are needed by the state in terms of risk capital. The government says it will facilitate more renewable energy. That's great. But there must also be a policy for this in everyday life to people, not just in party speeches. We had a notice about Vikna both yesterday and today. I think it must be problematic that, with regard to our largest wind power project, it is written in the form of decisions that the framework conditions are not good enough. It must be a cross of thought for this government to get such a decision from one of the largest development projects we have in this sector. We from the Christian People's Party have said that we think it is a pity that we did not agree with Sweden on green certificates. We still believe that green certificates will be an international system in Europe in a few years' time. This market will facilitate increased investment in new renewable energy and trigger new quantities of power. We believe that a certificate market is more dynamic than the subsidy scheme proposed by the Government today. However, we take note that it was not politically possible to reach such an agreement with Sweden, and we therefore support the subsidiary establishment of a basic renewable energy fund and energy efficiency improvement, managed by Enova. Why do we do that? Well, because we need more energy into the market. We need that bet now. We have too many projects in the drawer. Now these projects have to get out of the drawer and get started. That's why we also challenge the Government by increasing the capital reserves of our fund to NOK 15 billion, and want to increase it even more next year, because we think the fund is already too small. If we are to succeed in making the Norwegian power system more flexible, we need to introduce more energy carriers. We need to focus more on heat and energy saving, and we need to repair the grid. An increasingly tight force balance suggests urgent action. That is why we have proposed that we get a separate big message about the "energy state of the Reich" at regular intervals, and I think the last two hours of debate suggest that there should have been a majority for such a review. But if we are to succeed in achieving a better power balance, we also need to put in place more new production. We also need to stimulate saving and more efficient use of the force we have. Two-way communication between power supply and consumer is a good tool, which we in the Christian People's Party are already ready to enforce. I hope that the debate we get to spring on this can create a majority in order for us to move forward one step further. In our alternative budget, we're going to allocate $10 million. additional to the balancing of the transmission tariff. We believe that this is good energy policy, and we believe that this is good district policy, which should unite a majority in this Chamber. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that Norwegian knowledge in petroleum management also benefits poor countries. A country with exciting opportunities for oil and gas production is Madagascar. This is a co-operation country for Norwegian development assistance, and I am pleased that there is a majority asking the Government to consider closer cooperation in this area. During the election campaign in 2005, one of the government parties called for a protective break. During the Soria Moria negotiations, the centre party lost this matter, but if we look at the practical policy, it can almost look as if they won the internal draw. This believes the Christian People's Party is sin. In order to protect biodiversity and to take care of important natural areas for the next generation, we need new areas of protection. It is therefore important to keep pace with the implementation of the National Park Plan in 2010, but we fear that the Government is already in arrears. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we also put up a stronger commitment to classical nature protection than the Government proposes. We spend more money on forest protection, more on stock monitoring and recording predators, and more on cleaning up environmental pollutants and pollution in soil, water and sediments. Why are we doing this? Yes, to take seriously the responsibility we have for those who come after us. In the case of cultural memories, I want to refer to the setting. This is an important area for the Christian People's Party, but time doesn't allow me to go into it. I refer – as I said – to the attitude. I'm bringing this up with the suggestions the Christian People's Party has included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1904	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1909	There is something liberating with the Christian People's Party in opposition and the Christian People's Party's environmental policy when they are white Right's clumsy hand. It's positive. I will commend the representative Holten Hemdal to present the Christian People's Party's policy today, and not do as we have seen that many others have done, just criticise the Government's proposal without promoting alternatives. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party will vote for the vote later today. I have a question for the representative Holten Hemdal. In the 2007 budget, the Christian People's Party has proposed a new waste levy. My question is: can the representative Holten Heimdal be a little more concrete and say what the new fee should cover, how high it should be, and what device does the Christian People's Party think it should have? It may be particularly interesting to know how high the new waste tax will be and how it will affect consumers and, in particular, business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1919	I thank you for the positive review. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we are a constructive opposition party, including in the field of environmental and energy policy. We have an electorate behind us who has given us a mandate to take care of the future of the next generation. That is the mandate I am trying to grasp through my political work. The Christian People's Party saw the need to introduce new taxes in landfills, because the Government raised uncertainty in the draft budget of the Ministry of the Environment in this respect. The 2007 budget states that the ban on landfill should be assessed. These are policies that have been confirmed for many years, but in this proposition, the Government goes in to assess. I am pleased that in the setting it has now been put in place that the landfill ban will come into force in 2009. That's good for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1928	I'm going to give tribute to the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal for a well-balanced post, actually an post it was interesting to listen to. The environmental aspect was properly emphasised, but it was also said by the representative – as far as I understood it – that there is a need for increased power generation in Norway and the development of new capacity. There is the representative Holten Hemdal and the Christian People's Party in line with the Progress Party. As we see in the Progress Party, the largest potential for increased power generation in Norway lies in gas power. We know that the Government of Bondevik in its time went off protesting against the construction of gas power plants and weakening the assumptions of the pollution law. But does the Christian People's Party believe that the State should take all the costs of CO2 clean-up and CO2 deposition in relation to gas power plants in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1941	I thank you for the question. Gas power and domestic use of gas have been an important issue for the Christian People's Party, in government and in opposition. That's why we spent a lot of time trying to reconcile with the other parties in connection with a gas pipeline, both to Grenland and to Middle Norway and Trondheim, in the previous period. We also created Gassnova. We set up a research fund to develop new gas cleaning technologies. For the Christian People's Party, this is related to CO2 management. The Christian People's Party has always had a policy, and we are still on it that we should take a certain responsibility. But that must not be the case, as I feel that perhaps the representative suggests, that the state should take full responsibility. It has to be a balance. I think the representative really agrees, because if the industry is to be involved, it must also see that it benefits from participating in the development of a technology. But we're going to take a significant responsibility from the state to get more domestic use of natural gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1953	Like the Christian People's Party, the Center Party also has a desire to preserve the creation. We haven't had an impact on any protection break, but Holten Hemdal said it's the only way we can preserve biodiversity. I'll challenge her on that. Is it the reality that it's only through a static protection and not through a sensible care and a sensible use we can take care of it? The National Audit Office just published a report that was relatively interesting in that way. The second thing I was thinking about is the development of what was the government a year ago, that is, the three previous government parties. Over the past year, we have repeatedly demonstrated that there is a huge difference in the approach to what has been the most important environmental policy issues. Either gas and CO2 cleaning or the relationship to the protection of the Wefsna and the management plan of the northern regions, occupy the Christian People's Party, partly together with the Left, a complete opposite position of the Right and the Advance Party do. Does the representative Holten Hemdal wish to return to government with these parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1965	With regard to protection and rest periods, it is quite easy to confirm that this government has not fulfilled the promise to comply. There are probably 20 days left until 2006, and there will be quite a number of areas in these weeks to protect what was stated in the 2006 budget. Care is also important. Therefore, the Christian People's Party, in the form of a note, calls for a plan for care. This is not the government parties on it. As far as government cooperation is concerned, it turns out that the Christian People's Party and the Left – we have to say it this way, if we're going to base the reason for Borten Moe – is good to negotiate. When we negotiate, we get to the right. They are burdening us with a good environmental policy. I want to say that Mr. Børge and Mr. Knut Arild Hareide, as Environment Ministers, came up with a lot of good measures. I would have liked to have framed a lot of good measures. What's positive about what the representative Sørensen said to me, is that this was one of the better things the Minister for the Environment took over. Then at least Minister for the Environment Helen Bjørnøy said that the drawers were empty when she took over the office after Knut Arild Hareide last fall, made to shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e1977	The last confirmation and assurance from the Christian People's Party, which must be reckoned with by the Left, should guarantee that the environmental policy of Ivar Kristiansen may face a dark future, regardless of the outcome of the next crossroads. We've been in position for a year, and rarely – I would say – has any government and some majority got so fucked up to actually deliver quite a lot of good politics and pretty good results. According to the Right, at least for those of us who have followed the last financial debate, we have come to the table on economic policy. It had been cleaned up and sorted out in a way that made everything right for the growth of the public budgets that we have now seen in the last two years. I'm not going to spend time on that, but I want to say that in terms of energy policy, this government came to a bankruptcy residence. There's the best example in Mid-Norway. For what is the background to the need to go to such drastic measures as to consider buying mobile gas power plants in central Norway? After all, it has over time built up an enormous production deficit in this part of the country. If the previous government had done its job, whether it had been in the form of a concession for new production of power in the area or it had been to initiate the construction of sufficient transfer capacity into Middle Norway, this would have been avoided. But you didn't. We now have to take the consequences of this. My recommendation to the Government is that we give priority to energy security, so there should be no doubt that there is sufficient energy in Middle Norway at all times. I would like to point out the fact that this government has stopped the sale of Norwegian hydropower. We have called about the right of return. We are pursuing a much more active European policy than the previous government did, by now taking a fight with ESA about the Norwegian fall-back institute in the future. We have solved the major gas conflict in Norwegian policy. This is the political battle that has perhaps been the sharpest, and which has perhaps been the toughest alongside the EU fight in the last 15 years of Norwegian policy. By granting Mongstad a concession for the construction of a new gas power plant, both electricity supply and industrial development are ensured in the area, while cleaning CO2 and the idea of a value chain of CO2 can be realized. For those who have read the report of the Low Emissions Committee, it is the most important single decision we can take to achieve the ambitious targets set towards 2050. Then one would think that this was well received by the opposition. But it won't. Right wound strong doubt – very strong doubt – whether this is something they're going to continue if they're going to win a big shot in 2009. The party immediately says that this is what they consider to be nonsense, and if they ever get the chance, they will terminate this project as soon as possible. There is no particular perspective on such a policy. We have put in place a historical commitment to renewable energy. We want to turn the energy consumption into heating from electricity and over onto water-borne heating systems. We have put in place support schemes for small-scale power plants, for bioenergy and for wind power. We have set at NOK 20 billion for an energy fund where the return is to go to the development of these energy technologies in Norway. Then Børge Børge and others have to say that this is bad. But unlike what's been delivered in the last four years, at least you've done something, and $20 billion is not small money. It will, when fully phased in, be over a doubling of resource use for new energy deployment. In addition, the fact that long-term energy prices have been checked up. One day of grief, the answer is the opposition gives on this. We have announced a review of the Energy Act to see if there are mechanisms that allow us to better maintain security of supply and ensure the energy balance in this country. This is a very important work, and I want to praise the Christian People's Party for having already signaled through the Document 8 proposal that came, that you have very well the same approach as the Center Party has on this issue. It should be able to form the basis for a wide-ranging settlement in Stortinget. We are working on an industrial power regime. I guess you're not entirely in the goal, but I want to stress that this is a very important work. We have a goal that Norwegian industry will be able to continue to develop and invest in Norway in the future, and that we will still be able to use our natural resources for further processing in Norway rather than moving this out of the country. Many people claim that industry has no future in Norway and criticises the work being done by the Government in this area. This criticism is a result of poor environmental and industrial policies. Our role in the world in the future must be to be involved and to contribute to the development of an efficient, environmentally friendly industry that is at the forefront of what can be achieved in industrial production. At Sunndalsøra, we have established the largest aluminium mill in Europe. There's no other place there is so much aluminum produced with so little energy and with so few people. It's environmental policy, because it's efficient resource use, and it's a kind of industrial development that we're going to facilitate in the future. I want to point out the establishments that Elkem has done in Kristiansund – very promising. I would also like to point out the project that Norske Skog together with Hydro is considering launching in connection with the production of biodiesel on Norwegian wood – very interesting. It is a work that should be supported and helped to achieve it. I also want to say that the sum of our CO2 emissions is a direct result of our total consumption. And as long as we're not willing to reduce or turn our consumption over to other things, sending Norwegian industry out of the country will help little on global emissions. A forthcoming Norwegian debate on emissions must include this perspective. We are actively using the charging policy in this budget. We're doing it on car charges, and we're doing it on NOx, where we've made a sensible change in my opinion that now makes us reduce domestic emissions more effectively. We also need to do this when we are about to phase in a new CO2 regime in Norway, in order to meet the commitments we have made through the Kyoto Protocol. This broad approach is, in our opinion, the best environmental policy we can pursue to achieve the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves. We need to have faith in technology development, and we need to have faith in cooperation, both nationally and internationally, to solve our greatest environmental challenges, which, in our opinion, are essentially global. We have important and major national environmental challenges to address. We stress here that the landfill ban will be introduced in 2009. In this context, it will be very important to develop a framework and system for waste incineration with energy recovery in Norway. We need to have a special focus on the use of chemicals, both in Norwegian households and in Norwegian industry, in time to come. I believe that we should make demands that pressure our business and that push Norwegian consumers to be at the forefront in terms of health, environment and safety. In the case of species diversity and red list, the last red list was presented yesterday. It shows that we have major national challenges that we need to meet. But next to classical protection and alongside the use of the law on nature protection, we also have to invest in voluntary forest protection. This is an increasing budget line in the draft budget presented today. We're happy about that. We will also pay particular attention to what responsibility the state has taken on through the areas already protected, in relation to care and administration there. It is absolutely necessary to preserve biodiversity for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2035	Let me first say that it is nonsense what is being said about the Progress Party and Kårstø. We are against Kårstø, because it is a bad project, but we are for further process both at Mongstad and at the Tjeldbergodden. This is also the case in the budget of the Progress Party, as opposed to that of the Government. The Worm Lange is the representative inside. There were two parties that warned against the power situation in relation to the Worm Lange at the treatment in Stortinget. That was the SV and the Progress Party. Away Moe has gradually made it a habit to promise things that he probably believes in, but that apparently not always the Government and the Government's leadership have faith in. The red-greens have solved the gas power problem, says Ola Borten Moe. Then it is time to ask: what are the framework conditions for these gas power stations? Will these framework conditions apply to all gas power plants? And will be lifted from Stoltenberg on May 1st. that gas power plants will be built on Forests in the near future will be followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2046	The President would point out that 'customs' is not a parliamentary expression. Actually, Ola Borten Moe used the same expression in her post, but it was just to show that the Advance Party had used it earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2049	As far as Middle Norway is concerned, it is important to stress the story, the simple fact that many of those who have a great responsibility for things being as black as they are, are the ones who are the hardest to criticize the Government for not coming up with the final solutions. Today, tough words are used in relation to Statnet’s decision to purchase mobile gas power plants. And my counterquestion would have been, what is the alternative? If you had given a concession and started building the gas power plant in Forest, it wouldn't have been done before 3 to 3 1/2 years, so we have a big challenge in a year. In terms of concession to gas power plants, it's a fact that one new concession has been granted to Mongstad. It was given in the autumn. That's the first one that's been given since 2000. This is an important milestone in Norwegian industrial, technology and environmental history. I find that hard to get out of. In the case of Forest, I hope that it will be built, and I hope that it will be built with cleaning. Then we'll be waiting for the government's long-term plan for Middle Norway before we get the fasit on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2059	I don't know what made me think of the famous exercise in sports to sell knitting in meters, when I heard the representative Borten Moes post, where he was satisfied within ten minutes. He is satisfied to replace wind power in central Norway with mobile, polluting gas power plants. He is satisfied that the energy action plan for Middle Norway is being postponed. He is brilliantly satisfied, as I choose to interpret him, with that now Middle Norway has become a separate price range. And we can't perceive Borten Moe otherwise than that he seems satisfied that the promised industrial power regime that would be in place in the afternoon is not yet in place. Is there no limit to what can make the representative Borten Moe happy when we talk about energy and environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2066	Me and Ivar Kristiansen have discussed this many times before. I pointed out the things that the government has actually done during the year you've been sitting, and that I'm pleased with. It's Mongstad and gas cleaning. There is the introduction of an alternative renewable energy support system. Then you would have to say that it's a pity that you didn't get the full development of Vikna at first, but you got an investment decision of 200 GWh, which is a significant contribution to the energy balance in Middle Norway. However, I share the perceptions that Ivar Kristiansen has in relation to the urgent need for the Government to clarify both Middle Norway and Industrial Power as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2077	The Centre Party has granted a total of 1 million in the financial statement. kr to the People's Action new predatory policy. It shows – and also the nod – that this is important for the Center Party. We know there are major local conflicts with predators. A tool to reduce conflicts can be good stock registration and monitoring. The Christian People's Party has spent more money on this in our alternative budget to see if the stock targets have been reached etc. My question then is: is the representative of the Central Party Ola Borten Moe satisfied with the government's budgetary level in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2084	DN performs quite extensive stock records using winter DNA analysis. The result of that is waiting in excitement, where we hope to get a better picture of what are the real ingredients. It's an important work, and I have great faith that within the limits that you've been assigned, you're going to get far with it. With regard to the public reaction to new predatory policies, it is, in our opinion, an important organisation for the collection and dissemination of information, and also represents an important corrigendum to many of the organisations that have such a one-sided view of Norwegian predatory policies and the management of predators. So yes, we are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2093	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2096	The Ministry of the Environment’s budget for 2007 is an important element in the repatriation of Norway as an environmental nation. In a similar debate in this Chamber last year, I underlined the need for a broad-based approach to environmental policy. I believe that with the 2007 budget, we have made a good start on this initiative, which also includes actions in the areas of several departments. I am therefore pleased to note that the Committee is pleased with the large environmental efforts made in the 2007 state budget. The seriousness of the climate challenges is now rising to most. High temperatures, ice melting, race and storms have been repeated in the media in the last year. The UK Stern report has also highlighted the high costs of climate change if we do not adopt effective measures. Such measures also cost us, but not nearly as much as passivity will cost us. To reverse the negative developments in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, the Government will further strengthen climate action. Significant parts of Norway’s emissions obligations under the Kyoto Protocol shall be taken nationally. Since climate policy affects all areas of society, we will present to spring a major communication on sectoral climate action plans. Like the Committee, I have followed the work of the Committee on Low Emissions with great interest. The government will come back later with further proposals to reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions from a long-term perspective. In this context, too, let me say that I have noticed the committee leader's constructive proposals on long-term objectives and cross-political reconciliation in climate policy. I look forward to further cooperation with all the good forces in this work. Emissions of NOx are still above the level to which we have committed ourselves under the Gothenburg Protocol. In order to meet our commitments by 2010, significant reductions are needed. The Government proposes a charge on NOx emissions from 1 January 2007. As I stressed in the financial debate last week, exemptions will be made from the charging obligation for the undertakings that enter into agreements with the country on concrete, fixed-term emission reductions. The Government's Environmental Development Cooperation Action Plan will be prioritised in 2007. The main initiatives will take place in Africa, but we will also strengthen environmental cooperation with countries in Latin America and countries with high greenhouse gas emissions, including the United States. China. I am particularly pleased that the Committee supports the Government's ambition for Norway to be the leader in environmental development cooperation. We have an ambitious target of halting the loss of species in Norway by 2010. The contribution to biodiversity monitoring is increased by 9.4 million. kr in 2007. In particular, we should focus on the monitoring and monitoring of the seaweed forest along the coast and other endangered and vulnerable species, including: the wild-purple strains. We also continue to invest in forest protection. The appropriations for new forest protection are increasing by nearly 22 million. kr. A number of instruments are needed to make use of forest protection work, and we will also place great emphasis on voluntary schemes. In 2007, the funds will be used for payments under voluntary protection. Governments are concerned with the environmental challenges in the north, in particular with the impacts of climate change and the accumulation of health and environmental hazardous chemicals. In addition to international efforts in these areas, we are also committed to following up the Barents Sea Management Plan of a total of 123 million. kr as a central investment in 2007. Finally, I would like to mention two areas to quite briefly. There are allocations for liming watercourses, which we are increasing, and the further investment in cultural memories and the cultural environment. We have said that we should become a priority country in the field of environmental protection policy. The government's commitment to the 2007 budget is the first step towards achieving that goal. The road is long, but we've gone out the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2126	The Council of State spoke of ‘wide-ranging action’ and said that most of the climate action should be undertaken nationally, it would disregard the mechanisms contained in the Kyoto Protocol, which were intended to result in emission reductions being made where they were the cheapest, and not necessarily within national borders. So the Kårstø project is specifically mentioned, with 720 million. kr, but there is no mention of what kind of effects you expect, what kind of technology you expect to get out of it, and what kind of diet-benefit it will have. At the same time as the Council of State boasts of the environmental effort, we see that the real consequence of the government's policy is that 2 billion kroner are spent on purchasing mobile gas power plants. Before that, a tenant would hire them, because one thought it was a short-term sequence. Now when a buyer, it must be because you think you should use them for a very long time. That's the cost of not doing anything, like Councillor Bjørnøy had in mind. One can get a lot of good energy and environmental projects for NOK 2 billion. But the question is, does the Council actually believe that the climate effect will be better if you spend 720 million dollars? kr on the Kårstø project in Norway than if you spend the money on international climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2135	As far as climate action is concerned, we need to bet on a broad front. Norway has a particular responsibility to reduce its national climate emissions, i.e. in Norway, because Norway is part of the world that has made emissions so high. It is the western part of the world that has emitted these greenhouse gases – and we need to take action and reduce emissions at home. But in addition, we have a commitment to be at the forefront in terms of technology development that can be used elsewhere, and what we do with CO2 management can help both reduce emissions and develop technologies that benefit elsewhere and that can be used by other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2143	The Minister for the Environment claimed that she has returned to Norway as an environmental nation during the year that has passed. Did the council think that almost 100 wind turbines are now being dropped in central Norway and replaced by three mobile gas power plants? Was that what the Council of State had in mind when it came to repatriating Norway as an environmental nation? The size has received a four-page big message that is being submitted to the renewable initiative. It is so bad that nine out of ten renewable projects are dropped. The right-hand side now requires – and will address this in the Committee – that the whole message be sent back, so that we get a proper response in place, so that Norway can also get an increase in renewable energy in line with its neighbouring countries. When key renewable projects are being dropped and wind turbines replaced by polluting mobile gas power plants, is the Council willing to review the scheme and see if we can also improve support schemes in Norway? I hope that the Council of State will then answer the question: Can we get a better system, so that we get more renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2155	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have a clear vision that we will return to Norway as an environmental nation. I didn't say we were on target. What I have said is that this budget is an important paragraph – a first step – in order to achieve that objective. But it's quite right, as the representative Burnde says, that it's a long way to go, because the environment has been so much neglected in recent years. That's why it's not done in a year. But we've taken the first step. In the case of renewable energy, it is also quite right that nothing has been done in this area in the past. So we've taken the first step. But we're not at all in terms of it, and we have a lot to do. But we've taken the first step to return to Norway as an environmental nation. With regard to the assessment of renewable energy investment itself, we need to see results over a little time before we start criticising a scheme that has now started. I think it's important to have the opportunity to evaluate and look at the projects before we pass judgment on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2165	On the day that Stortinget will grant money for 2007, the Council of State says that there is too little money. "There is a considerable need for more money," she says in the evening post today. So this was the first step, then, that the Environment Minister gave in response to Børge Burnde earlier in the line change. When we look at the government's budget proposal, we find little environmental effort in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. In general, we find the environmental effort on green taxes in the financial sector, collective action in the transport sector, environmental assistance for developing countries and the commitment to climate action in the energy supply sector. How can we be confident that there will be significantly more money within the Ministry of the Environment budget when we see that the Ministry of the Environment is not given priority in the government's budget negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2174	The most important thing is environmental policy. I have to be completely honest and say that to me, it is the most interesting thing that the Government is doing in environmental policy, and that we are getting an impact on environmental policy in the various departments' work areas. It is not an end in itself to getting a lot of money from the Ministry of the Environment's budget. The most important thing is that the Government implements an overall policy that has an environmental perspective and direction on all the tasks we do. So it is quite right, as I have said many times, that the 2007 budget is a first step on the way to making both society and the various sectors more concerned with the environment and more permeable by environmental policies. I have also said today – that is the evidence we received yesterday, that biodiversity has been considerably reduced – that we need more money. We need to bet more on it in the years to come. And the government will.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2181	The Council of State says that the Government is not in the target in terms of environmental efforts and investment in renewable energy sources. The problem is that those who are on the start block now get up and go back to the closet. So the race hasn't even started, because the framework conditions of the government are too bad. It is not right that the previous government did nothing. It had completed a set of green certificates, which at least would have five times the effect on this area as today's scheme from the Government. In Nairobi, the Minister for the Environment promised to go home and help Norway do its part of the work to meet the commitments made in relation to the Kyoto Agreement. An important part of this effort is to invest in renewable energy sources, where Norway has large, unused opportunities. In politics, it's a good trait to turn around when you see that what you've done is not good enough. My question to the Council of State is: Is there a willingness to listen to those who work in the field of renewable energy and to take the consequence that more and more people are saying that today's arrangement is not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2192	I would like to comment on the comments made by the representative Kvassheim in three brief points. One is that no one should doubt that Norway will discharge its Kyoto obligations and that it will do so in combination with reductions at home, measures taken nationally, and the use of allowances. The second thing I want to say is that today we are discussing the 2007 budget. So I don't want to accept that we're going into a thinking where you're going to pass a verdict on something that's only so far in the starting pit to get to the bet on just renewable energy. The third thing I want to say is that of course we should listen to experiences that are made, and to different environments that have strong opinions. The entire government wants to lead, and will lead, a policy that allows us to have a listening attitude and gain experience – of course also in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2203	The commitment to renewable energy is in the take-off pit. It might seem that the starting pit is so deep that you never get out of it. When Børge Brende and Solvik-Olsen don't understand that this is the renewable effort of the time, there may not be anything Helen Bjørnøy needs to worry so much about. But when Kolbjørn Almlid, who is a central party man and has been his whole life, doesn't realize that this is the renewable effort of the time, we must agree that this cannot be satisfactory. It is precisely the business community that needs to make investment decisions, which need to understand that this is the time for renewable energy, and they do not. Does not the Council of State realize that there is then a blind spot in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2212	I maintain that the investment in renewable energy is historic, and I maintain that it has never been made possible before for as much investment in renewable energy as this government does. We've just started it, and we have to see results before it has to share a judgment on whether this has been successful or not. I understand that the opposition has a desire to blackmail. I understand that the opposition has a desire to draw conclusions before we see the outcome of this. But it's simply not very appropriate, I think. The outside vikna reduced its arrangement yesterday. We need to be aware that the project that they are actually launching is quite large – not as large as it was originally planned, but they are therefore undertaking a renewable wind project in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2222	There are many important things in the budgets of both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy that should have been mentioned, but five minutes does not allow that. I can only pick out some of the things I think are important. As a representative from Northern Ireland, I am very pleased with the 70 million allocations. kr for the survey of the conditions of the seabird, the surveys of the bottom conditions and the seismic surveys to be carried out now outside of Lofoten, Vesterålen and Troms II. The management plan shall be updated in 2010, in which case it is important that we have all the facts and knowledge necessary to decide whether petroleum activities are possible in these areas. Effective use of the period up to 2010 is important, as it is important from a north-eastern perspective that Nordic countries also play an active role in the development of existing and new industrial activities. When I mention the existing business, I also think about the power-intensive industry, which is corner stone farms in several communities in the Nordic countries, and also in the rest of the country. Many of the policy-specific industrial power contracts are in the process of being concluded, and the industry must act gradually at market prices. The government is working at high-pressure to find solutions, both in the short and long term, for this industry – solutions acceptable to ESA. The industry is waiting, the local population is waiting, and the employees are waiting for predictability. The former Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Industry would not address this matter. So a little bit over to Statnett. Statnet manages the entire central network and owns 85 pst. of it. They thus have the primary responsibility for supply in Norway. In a comment on the budget, the Progress Party is concerned that the lack of equity can go beyond electricity customers by the poor rating of Statnet and thus higher borrowing rates. In June this year, today's Business had a suggestion that Statnett will keep the rating, among other things. because today's government is more willing than the previous government to maintain the company as 100 pst. State. This affects the rating, the rating agencies say in their rationale to maintain the best rating for Statnet. The undocumented claims of the Progress Party only help to create uncertainty about a company owned by all of us. What information does the Progress Party have that is not shared with the rest of society? So a little over to the environmental budget. I guess there's no place where the differences between the civil parties are as good as in the environmental budget. Just a few examples: in the case of national and international environmental measures, local environmental protection and measures in national parks, the Progress Party cuts the entire allocation, while all others support the Government’s proposals. Christian People's Party wants, among other things, strengthening the protection of forests, while the Advance Party cuts from 89 million. NOK down to SEK 24 million. kr. That's how I could keep going. But I would rather say something more pleasant. I am extremely pleased that the entire committee is involved in a comment that points to the problems of re-growth throughout the country. This is also a major problem in our two cultural landscape protected areas, Vega and Nærøyfjorden in Geiranger. These must be given greater attention by the authorities in the future if we are to meet our obligations to be measured in 2011 and 2012. Maybe they should have their own post under the Directorate of Nature Management? Finally, we have here a proposal from the Progress Party to create the necessary trust between the population of predatory areas and the authorities, which are also being dealt with now. To put it simply, I do not understand this proposal when, at the same time, they halve the budget line for anti-conflict measures in the budget. Does the Progress Party believe that all predators must be shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2241	There are many who have already spoken about the budget options of the Progress Party. I could almost have saved myself. Whenever I choose to say a few words, it's because I don't think my colleagues in the rest of the couple have expressed our justice in the budget, but have presented it in a somewhat unhealthy way. The Progress Party is building a positive faith in the future for its environmental policy. We do not share the doomsday positions of the Government. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that in the near future technology development will be able to address many of the environmental challenges we are facing today. However, this calls for increased efforts in technological and scientific research at Norwegian universities, not a reduction in this, as the Government advocates. The Party wants to take care of the old and traditional industries which created the basis for prosperity before the oil age and which will be important for continued well-being and prosperity even after the oil is gone. In this context, I mention industries such as forestry, paper industry, pasture, metal industry, fisheries, aquaculture and the fishing industry, and not least – as the centre party so often refers to – our legacy, namely power generation. Maintaining these industries as strong and viable industries in Norway will keep Norwegian regions alive, will ensure Norwegian well-being in the future, and in addition it will be good for the environment. In most cases, if the Norwegian industry is shut down or moved out of the country, it will result in increased emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxide and carbon dioxide. I would like to emphasise that the production of newspaper paper in Europe, which is much more environmentally friendly today than 20 years ago – not because of demands made by politicians, but because of conscious customers in Europe. It is important to remember that Norwegian industry should be a model for industry in the world elsewhere, Norwegian industry must actually exist. It is therefore important that we do not give industry such poor conditions that it moves out. On the other hand, we must demand that it constantly use the best technology available to the market. In contrast to the Government, the Progress Party does not believe that good environmental policy should be based on prohibitions and charges without their being introduced in dialogue with industry. Furthermore, we assume that the charges levied should be earmarked as far as possible for measures to reduce the pollution to which the charge is linked. An example of this is the establishment of the industrial environmental fund and the reductions in sulphur emissions that this fund has brought about. The NOx tax that the Government has brought is not an example for follow-up, but fortunately it has the Government itself after all – unfortunately too late. Let me say a little bit about that. The government proposes to take in NOK 1.6 billion. in charge and use between 200 and 400 million. kr on measures. The Progress Party proposes to include approx. One billion dollars in a fund and spend one billion dollars on action, i.e. 600 million dollars. kr more to measures than the Government proposes – only so it is fixed. A large proportion of the cuts made by the Progress Party in the budget are related to passive land protection. In fact, it upsets me very much when I see and hear how much emphasis the other speakers put on passive protection as an environmental policy instrument, especially when we know that the local people in the affected areas – the local people who have created the natural qualities they are talking about – feel protection that violates both property rights and local democracy. These are values that we in the Advance Party are raising, and that I thought both the Right Party and the Center Party were also raising. This focus on passive land protection becomes even more provocative when the criticism presented by the Riksrevision in its report of this summer on the management of protected areas in Norway is taken into account. The report shows that the Government does not have the power to follow up the areas that are being protected, and that the bureaucrats are almost throwing themselves over the task of finding new areas to protect them once they have been protected. The report also shows that in the protected areas there are a number of red-listed species which are not managed or followed up in any way. Furthermore, the report shows that for more than half of the larger protection areas, there is no follow-up plan at all. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: that it is almost obvious that government and central government believe that protection must come first and that follow-up is not so dangerous in the first instance. It may seem that the Government believes that achievement of the objectives of environmental policy is based on the number of square kilometres being protected. The National Audit Office goes a long way in proposing that no new areas should be protected without the simultaneous adoption of a management plan. The Progress Party believes it is high time to carry out a proper evaluation of Norwegian protection policies, the management of protected areas, the negative impact on industry in the districts and raw material access to Norwegian paper industry and Norwegian outreach industries as a whole. The Progress Party also believes that local democracy should have a greater influence on the protection processes and that the Storting – and not the Government – should have the last word when the protection of a certain size is to be implemented. Until such an evaluation is launched, the Progress Party considers that a protective break should be implemented. Trillemarka is a good example of how protection in Norway should be implemented in the future. Dialogue with local democracy and landowners has led to a proposal that facilitates the greatest voluntary protection of the time, a protection that will protect more than 90 pst. of the Red List species in the area. Then we'll just hope the government chooses to seize this opportunity, though I doubt it. In this matter, we have to note again in a week's time that the election vows from the Centerpartiet and the Workers' Party are being buried – buried on the west Rollagsberg, I would say. The electoral campaign vows of the centre party in predatory policies must also be considered to have been buried relatively thoroughly, if not shot down. Representatives Trygve Battle Violence Vedum and Ola Borten Moe were together with the government council Riis-Johansen in our timer that the government was ready to change the emergency section. Now there are other signals coming from the government, and it looks like we're going into a new grazing season and maybe also into a new harvest hunt without a new emergency army paragraph in place. In large parts of Eastfold and Akershus, hunting with a dog is almost a fairy tale. This leads to a significant loss of income for landowners who are no longer hired out hunting grounds, and it also leads to a reduction in the quality of life for hunters who have to put the hobby on the shelf. That this year’s loss of predators in many places – not everywhere, but in many places – is larger than last year’s record, is a fact. The level of conflict in predatory issues is skyrocketing, and this issue also threatens the off-road industries and public access to open-air and hunting experiences. The wolf population in the East is about to eradicate the outlanding industries in Hedmark and hunting with dogs in Eastfold and Akershus. What the government calls common management of border stocks means in reality no administration, and the border populations of both wolf and bear are larger than national populations. The loss of dogs and buffes is today great, despite the fact that the stock targets are very close. In Trøndelag no one nestled in the last winter. The target is four. Nevertheless, the tapes, especially in the Nord-Trøndelag, were large. How will the losses be if you are so unlucky to reach the stock targets, without anchoring this in local government? One thing I'm sure of, and that is that if the centre party sits still and accepts this development, the party becomes a lot more extermination threat than the wolf is today. So very briefly a few words about the salmon. For a long time, it has been clear that the majority will implement an extension of the scheme to national salmon fjords, without any evaluation of the specific characteristics of passive land protection. At the same time, we know that acidification still affects the rivers and causes fish deaths in parts of South Norway. Therefore, we are pleased that the Government has strengthened the liming allocations. We believe that they should have been a little higher, but I am glad that the government has strengthened the appropriations for liming. I am more in doubt if the government has not bombed badly in relation to the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris. Here, government and sprawling have an extra responsibility, because the spread of gyro is caused by the state itself. In very many of the rivers that have been hit, there is the deployment from state plants that is the cause of the spread of gyro. That is why we believe that the state has a significant responsibility to clean this up. I can promise the Council of State and the Stortinget that the Advance Party will follow up this problem, and together with the other bourgeois parties we will follow up the message of error when it comes, most likely during this month. In relation to this with the protection: I see in today's Fiskriblatt that the ‘knicker saddle’, as the representative Breck calls them, does not get the impression that he wants to protect as much as possible. Also Breck believes there has to be more bet on fighting gyro. And then we'll see if that's the result. I will end by saying that, of course, the Progress Party is concerned with the good environment, good resource management and that the globe should be able to be handed over at least as well as it is today, to the next generations. However, the Progress Party does not believe that it is best to achieve this by charging taxes, introducing passive land protection and making environmental regulations so stringent that industry is moving out. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that it is best to achieve these objectives by focusing on research and development in technical and natural sciences, by contributing to a strong Norwegian industry as an environmental model for the rest of the world, by working with the business community on fund solutions instead of fees, and through active species protection – active species protection, not land protection – local participation in protection areas and their management, and not least by contributing to the non-socialist majority we will have in this room in 2009, will introduce the raising of renewable energy times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2280	When one has heard contributions from representatives of the opposition parties both in this debate and in other debates, one should believe that the imbalance in the Norwegian power market arose after the government shift in October one year ago, and that this date was the date when the decision refusal occurred. I think it is particularly bold of the then government parties to base their analysis and criticism on this. The Bondevik II government committed the inconsistency of the times as it only spoke of ‘strongly polluting gas power’ and did not do anything – indeed nothing at all – that improved the power situation in Middle Norway, as the representative Børge Burnde actually confirmed in the line change we had earlier today. The decisions they should have made could have prevented the uncertainty we are now in the middle of. The red-green government came to a completely empty desk. There were no ideas, and there were no plans to improve the situation. That's the facts. I understand very well the turmoil and perhaps anxiety that the people of Central Norway, and especially the Moors and the valley of Rome, express. Only new power generation in the region can save the situation in the longer term, and it takes time, yes, in many cases several years, from power generation decisions to production decisions. Therefore, from the day one in the government offices, our government had to take on two main tasks: firstly, short-term measures to prevent power shortages in 2007 and 2008 and, secondly, start planning and take action on permanent power generation in the region. If the Right in its political game and in its political rhetoric were to be most concerned with identifying action plans according to old Russian pattern, I and the Government are concerned about action. After just one year, short-term measures are now ready. Firstly, Statnet has partly on its own keel, but also after crystal clear instructions from the Government, started to greatly improve the transmission capacity of power into the region. This is done by investing in network voltage support to significantly improve transmission capacity. New transmission link from Sweden into central Norway shall be completed in autumn 2009. There is intense planning with a new transmission line from Sogn and Fjordane and into Møre and Romsdal. Then we have said that mobile gas power plants will be in place for the winter of 2008 to prevent any power shortage. If it's possible to run these power plants with bio, it's excellent, but we've made sure that the back-up power is in place when we need it. So the government is working intensively with new permanent power generation, and here we are taking the goal of combining good environmental policies and the production of enough power. By 2016, by doubling the appropriations for new renewable energy, we will have both energy efficiency improvement and the production of environmentally friendly energy from bio, wind and small-scale energy equivalent to 20-25 pst. of our consumption. If the instruments are not strong enough, we must consider strengthening them where necessary. The forecasts for the power consumption in 2010 show that the expected power deficit will only be in Møre and Romesdal at about approx. 5.5 TWh. This gap and gap in the whole of Central Norway can only be filled for the production of gas power. As far as I am aware, the Government is in close contact with the concessionaires both on the Forest and the Tent Goods with a view to making the construction of these power plants as quickly as possible. We must respect the fact that Statoil and Shell must complete their study on the injection of CO2 in the Draugen field and Heidrun field before making their investment decision, as planned in 2008. If this goes well, the Forest Power Plant also has a good CO2 solution by connecting to the Tent Goods plant. In that case, Industrialkraft Møre has promoted a very exciting gas power project in Fränia. This seems to be a very good project that can be realized quickly, and with the binding of large amounts of CO2 in local production at Hustadmarmor. That concession application should be dealt with as quickly as possible. All these measures show that the red-green government will take action that the former Bondevik government failed to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2312	There has been mainly a retrospective debate today, in my opinion. When today's three positioning parties spend most of their allocated speaking time telling today's magnificence what the previous government didn't do, you might want to consider that you are now in government year two of the four that were awarded in the last election. At some point you should stop blaming others for what was not done, when a viewer returns in time, but rather start telling you what kind of highlights, what kind of solutions you have, that can solve the acute conditions like more communities, households, industry, process industries, etc. now feel not only nearby, but which they are in the middle of and have to handle. Let me also say in connection with this that I do not share the deep pessimism that many people express here with regard to the Nairobi climate conference. I think there's a far greater international reality in terms of CO2 challenges than what it was just a year back in time. When we see the international debate, what is happening in the United States, and more obliging decisions in some major European countries, in Australia, etc., it becomes a bit strange to focus on our home circuitry where we are usually out of the way when we are going to discuss how to approach having influence over international policies in this area, which is our goal. I also think you should stop telling me that the Right has contributed to such doubt whether we are less good than others on CO2 challenges. To be honest, I do not understand where individual representatives are picking up this message. Even in the previous period, the first climate announcement was sent in return to the then Stoltenberg government. We got a new more offensive message on the table. National measures were taken. We've been on every penny that's been allocated, including those that are now going to get CO2 solutions, on Mongstad or Kårstø, for that matter. It is enough in this regard to refer to our party leader's statement in a press release when Mongstad came into place, entitled "The Reason Winned". The fact that in 2006 there is no political presence and the printing of blank cheques for what is going to happen in two or three emerging periods of ageing, I think you have to respect, instead of saying that the Right contributes to such doubt as to whether or not we are involved in these issues. Today's reference to nine out of ten wind power projects being scrapped is no good news. In brackets – it is also not right that the representative, Mr. Borten Moe, said here today, that no final investment decision has been taken in the case of the Vicna project. Nord-Trøndelag Energieverk owns 50 pst. of Vikna. What the other owners, e.g. Hydro, and the board of the Vikna company is going to land on, is still unknown. Let me also say a little bit about our approach to our neighbor in the East, Russia. I think there is a strong need for a much more offensive Russian policy. We have a much greater environmental challenge both in terms of energy and perhaps even more so in terms of handling and neighbourhood to Russia than in most other contexts. There we still have the greatest environmental threat. We share fishing resources and we share marine areas with Russia, and we have some challenges and approaches where we need to have a much more active policy approach than we have seen so far. We have now in many ways been spectators of what has happened in Russia in the last few years. The fact that we lose markets, that we still have a very uncertain environmental situation in our neighbourhood with Russia, has to worry. In my view, it will require a much more active policy than the approach we are now witnessing, including a lack of content when we talk about the active North Region approach. So this is a request to today's two state councillors to have hands on the steering wheel in the approach to Russia. There's our biggest challenge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2335	In these days the word «climate change» is on everyone's lips. Media has used meters of slot space on the theme, and we've seen Nordtun and Burnde in debate on TV. The mild harvest weather has suddenly become hot media and, of course, hot political substance. There is also reason to commend the Minister for the Environment for helping to put the theme on the national and international agendas in such a powerful and trusting way. Climate change has major consequences, especially in polar areas. The 2007–08 Polar Year provides us with a good opportunity to focus on the melting down of polar struts, thus providing general public information and awareness-raising work on what can happen in a long-term perspective, as sea level increases, and as the drought seasons increase. The Labour Party expects that both industry, the transport sector and people will most stop and join in on a national commitment to measures to curb climate change. Nordics are most concerned with the greenhouse effect and with climatic changes in general. The Nordics are most willing to actively change habits and lifestyles to contribute to a better environment. This knowledge has been gained through several market studies that have been carried out. This is a win-win situation. It is therefore so great that the Government is taking a cap on CO2 clean-up and other measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and that the appropriations under the budget line for environmental research and monitoring are increasing. There are many paradoxes in international environmental work. The Committee has discussed these issues on a number of occasions. Norway imports polluting coal power. We are importing nuclear power, and we are looking with concern up to that day – and it is not far away – as China and India are going to participate fully in the forthcoming increase in wealth, with the energy needs that this entails. All the challenges that increasing energy needs bring with them give us two main directions to work on. One is environmental protection research, which I have already affected. The second is new renewable energy. In this field, the Stoltenberg government is betting more than ever before within this field. The new basic fund is one of several good actions. The results of the research on new renewable energy will produce new technological solutions, i.e. new technologies that can provide Norway with many new, exciting jobs. There is yet another dimension in environmental research and monitoring that should be highlighted, and there is international cooperation. There are no easy solutions to any of these challenges, but it would have helped if Norway, along with the rest of Europe, had moved in the same direction. It would have helped if the United States had taken over the seriousness of climate change and taken political action to do something about it. We need to get there to get a common international understanding of the climate challenges and a common international consensus on action, in order to take the problem seriously. Let me just mention a demarcated area like the Barents Sea. Here we see how dependent we are on good and committed environmental cooperation with the Russians. That's how I can mention sea area by sea area. We will soon see the importance of international commitment cooperation. This concerns pollution and, last but not least, the conservation of marine biodiversity. Finally, I would like to say a little about the situation of mountain reefs. We know that there are only about 50 mountain ridges left in mainland Norway. Since the 2003 plan of action for the conservation of the mountain reefs, there has been a concrete and focused effort to save this beautiful, small animal. In Finland, only three young people are registered this year, and this gives cause for concern. It's too little. Even though the red reef in the same revir area is shot, it's taken out, to reduce the competition for food, there's still food shortage that's the biggest threat to mountain reefs. An overall committee has been concerned with the situation of mountain reefs, and an overall committee has supported the work being done to save the mountain reefs. We have to follow developments carefully, both in the case of mountain reefs and other endangered species.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2359	I will begin by pointing out that for several years the Progress Party has been calling for an increase in power generation in Norway, and that the Progress Party is strongly critical of the fact that Norway, even in a so-called normal year, has a deficit of 5-7 TWh, which we have to cover up through imports from abroad. The Progress Party is not satisfied that Norway has gone from being a large net exporter of electricity in the early 1990s to becoming a significant net importer of electricity in the last 10 years. The figures for the Norwegian power exchange show that in all six of the last ten years Norway has been a net importer of electricity to offset the domestic power deficit. In the view of the Progress Party, it is not acceptable for an energy storm power such as Norway to base its security of supply on large-scale imports from abroad. The party notes with some disappointment that the level of ambition of the government parties is limited to making the country self-sufficient in electric energy in a normal year, as it is called. To base the balance of forces in a normal year on its power policy objectives is an overly passive force policy objective, as the Progress Party sees it. This is because hydropower production usually fluctuates so much from year to year, and because a normal year occurs rather rarely. Therefore, it is not relevant to use normal years as a reference for power generation in this context. With such a diffuse objective, to put it that way, the Government will continue to add to a large power deficit in Norway in all years of precipitation failure, thus adding to both higher and more unstable electricity prices than necessary in the future. The ideal thing is to have a domestic generating capacity for electrical energy that is dimensioned to deliver a not insignificant net export of power, even in a normal year of precipitation, and that will therefore be better able to deal with years of significant rainfall failure, without the need for streamration and high instability in electricity prices. Norway’s great dependence on hydropower – 99 pst. the production of electricity is hydropower-based, making the country highly vulnerable to droughts and precipitation failures. It needs to be invested relatively quickly in a power generation based not only on new hydropower but also on several alternative energy sources for hydropower and gas in particular, but also bioenergy and nuclear energy in general. A gradual energy conversion in Norway, based on a reduction in the dominance of hydropower, and the phase-in of alternative energy supply such as gas and bioenergy makes sense to make Norwegian power supply less vulnerable to droughts and precipitation failures. Today, the security of supply of our country is completely compromised by the exchange of power with our neighbouring countries, even this year with the normal expectation of our water storage plants. This growing import dependency that we have of Swedish nuclear power and Danish coal power, which we have witnessed in the last ten years, is not acceptable to Norway as an energy storm power. Nor is the large Norwegian power deficit acceptable, based on societal security aspects. Norway needs to set up its energy policy to restore its capacity to be self-sufficient and to have an energy system capable of coping with rainfall. Norway needs a much more ambitious power policy than the current government stands for. Norway needs a new power policy with the clear objective of re-establishing self-sufficiency in power generation. This is very clear to the Progress Party, and we hope that it will be possible to achieve such a policy as soon as possible, as it is urgent. We see today that the power deficit is an increasing problem. We get higher power prices. This is a situation that we need to take seriously, and the power policy towering sleep has now been far too long in Norway. Now the Progress Party says, we need a new power policy, and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2376	I want to start with being a little bit positive. I actually think there's a lot of positive happening a day, and I just want to mention something. We provide support for new renewable energy of DKK 10 billion for next year in a fund, with a follow-up in 2009 of a new DKK 10 billion. In relation to nothing, it is a historic effort. We've given concession to Mongstad, which gives a total energy production of 5 TWh. On Kårstø they now confirm in the autumn that there will be operation every day, which gives us a new amount of force of 3.5 TWh. Skagerak Energi has applied for gas power plants on the island of Her Island, with 8 TWh. They have now given a pre-message on the Impact Bar in Tønsberg, at 8 TWh. If we solve the technical code of the Tent Goods, it increases energy production. Yesterday we received a message that someone will now install a new power unit on the Svartisen in Northern Ireland, which gives 1.5 TWh. It's a sign that the industry is now responding positively to what the government is doing. It's an industry that has actually been quite abstinent in bringing forward new projects. This is in stark contrast to what happened in the last period, because there's a difference of 26 TWh on one side, which has now emerged in the last, and nothing. When Brande says that they secured new hydropower concessions, I wonder which ones. What concessions did they get? And what concessions, if any, would not receive a positive treatment today, with today's government? He says they made an investment decision on Kårstø. I wonder what the previous government was doing to get the investment decision out of it. - Nothing, really. Had it not been for the Stoltenberg government and the Kårstø concession grant, Kårstø had not been a reality. That's the reality. Then he talks about Snow White. Yes, what was the challenge of getting Snow White through in the Storting? - No one. Then he talks about green certificates. The immediate effect of what Burn and Right presents when they talk about green certificates is a billion bill to the Norwegian people. In other words, they have become quite pompous in their use of words, and I now choose to look at Burnde as a pompous opposition politician. But I also understand the frustration, because he really doesn't have anything to point out in relation to what they stand for. An important theme that has been put on the road through the budgetary procedure of the Energy and Environment Committee, which is the prelude to the Government of the State Budget, is gas pipelines to Grenland. We have now become aware that the pipe solution is technically possible, and that it will be profitable to carry gas into the pipe. For the Workers' Party, which has been concrete and willful for several years, we are now completely up to a conclusion process and a concrete phase. The result of the current process is doubtful that the pipe will be realized. Government parties will have a rapid declaration of principle about the pipe, and this also underlines the impatience of the government parties. The gas tube for, inter alia: Border is undoubtedly the most important decision to support future industrial investment in Grenland, industrial investment with high national value. It's enough to mention establishments like Yara, Borealis and Hydro Polymers, which are now dependent on a rapid explanation of principle. The gas pipeline is undoubtedly also important in order to improve the power balance in Eastern Europe as we approach 2015. In addition, at least in my opinion, the gas pipeline will be the main contribution to achieving a profitable value chain in relation to CO2. In this respect, I would like to mention that three of the ten industrial companies in Norway that emit the most CO2 emissions are located in Grenland. When the government parties now say so clearly that, in line with the Soria Moria declaration, the state will contribute with commercial actors to realise the pipeline, we say that the state through a state company will participate in the financing of the pipeline. And more clearly, it can't be said. However, I have registered that some of the FrPs are out trying to criticise the Government for not being clear enough. To that I would ask the Advancement Party to read again its own comments and compare them with the views of the majority. In principle, there is no difference. That's why I want to express joy in saying that it's now a total mass, actually, that wants the gas pipe, and that there's a community here in this room that represents impatience. It deserves this very important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07.ana.ud1532e2397	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over and the meeting is cancelled. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
