ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e58	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e61	On behalf of the representatives Berit Brørby, Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Law of 5 February 1932 No. 1 on penalties for actions brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities, and Law No. 5 February 1932. 2 on the procedure of national courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e66	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e69	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to amend the Foreign Affairs Act, so that foreigners with expulsion decisions can remain in closed custody on grounds of national security until expulsion can be effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e74	The legislative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e87	The Committee shall put forward a unanimous opinion on the Government’s proposal to amend the Law on Civil Liberties. The Borättslagsgesetz states that the money of the housing law shall be placed in a Norwegian bank or in another financial institution entitled to provide such service in Norway, ‘and which has a similar insurance scheme as a Norwegian bank’. This has in practice meant that non-resident financial institutions with branches in Norway are excluded from receiving deposits from housing laws, unless the foreign branch provides the same collateral as Norwegian banks. For Norwegian banks, the insurance requirement is 2 million. kr, and in the case of a foreign bank with its principal seat in the EEA territory, the minimum deposit guarantee amount is EUR 20 000. The Committee agrees with the Government that there is no need to impose more stringent security requirements on financial institutions in the event of receipt of deposits from residents' law than in the event of receipt of deposits from housing societies. Therefore, a unanimous committee considers it appropriate to remove the requirement that non-resident financial institutions can only receive deposits from housing laws if the non-resident financial institution has as good insurance arrangements as Norwegian banks. The Committee considers that the housing laws themselves are able to assess any increased risks arising from access to the use of financial institutions with somewhat weaker insurance requirements. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have made a proposal on ‘tax equal treatment of management services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and for stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures’. Exemptions from VAT for such services for the purpose of Residential Cooperation were granted in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 2 for 2000–2001. The assessment made at the time stressed that any obligation to pay taxes on the movement of administrative services provided by the housing construction laws for related housing laws could have adverse consequences for the administrative structure of the housing cooperative, which is not desirable. The majority of the Committee therefore opposes the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e102	The Progress Party, the Right and the Left, promoted in the previous period, proposed that the Government should ‘investigate and propose the full non-discriminatory treatment of administrative services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and between stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures’. This proposal was adopted on 16 June 2005 by 58 votes to 40. I point out that the Ministry of Finance stated that, on the basis of the proposal, amendments should be sent to the hearing by the end of 2005, and that a legislative proposal should be submitted as soon as possible after the final hearing. Since that time nothing has happened in this case. The progress party finds it unfortunate that owners of two identical dwellings should be discriminated against by the fact that someone has to pay 25 pst. more than others for the same service, and that the management services of a housing structure for related housing laws under the VAT Act are exempt from VAT for business purposes, while owners of stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures have to pay 25 pst. value added tax for the same service. The Progress Party would point out that this in practice undermines the intention of the Law on housing law to be free to choose a business manager after ten years. Therefore, the party to the progress is primarily in favour of exemptions also for stand-alone housing and owner-sectional alliances. Subsidy must end the discrimination by also charging the services of the housing communities in the same line. Then, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Left, I would like to promote the motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e117	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 138]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e135	Intermunicipal cooperation is extensive and diverse, and all indications suggest that it will increase in scope. I want to add that it is also desirable based on several considerations. The changes in the law that we are adopting today on inter-municipal cooperation make it more sound and simpler for municipalities – and also for county councils, to underline it – to cooperate in new and regulatory areas. I would argue that the bill can also help to strengthen legal certainty in relation to services and public authority. The legislative proposal is important for municipalities to ensure the most competent professional environments through cooperation, so that we can get the most out of the money, and, not least, in order to ensure good political and administrative governance with the tasks that are shared between municipalities. Surveys clearly show that intermunicipal cooperation produces far better results than if the municipalities concerned were to do the tasks separately. Intermunicipal cooperation can be a real challenge in ensuring sufficient political involvement of local government and other political bodies in individual municipalities. But this is also a lot about how cooperation is organised in this way, and not least about the awareness of the importance of good political anchoring in each municipality. A large majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, believes that the many benefits of inter-municipal cooperation far outweigh any weaknesses. The legislative proposal allows municipalities to enter into a host municipality cooperation by allowing one or more municipalities to agree with another municipality to take over the day-to-day work on a responsibility. Two types of host municipal schemes are being applied, one with elected bodies and one without. Without regard, the arrangement is limited to matters of no fundamental importance. The so-called ‘general owner’ of the bill opens up so that any exercise of authority can be delegated to a host municipality, unless the municipal law or other laws prohibit it. It offers far greater opportunities to establish good cooperation arrangements than is the case with current legislation. There is broad support for the legislative proposal of the Hearing Officers and also much agreement on the proposal in the Committee. But the Left is promoting a minority proposal based on the desire to get the co-municipal model legalised. The other members of the Committee disagree. The majority believe that more experience with the joint municipal model is needed, and that it is now being legalised. But we are positive for the extension of current trials, and that a few more municipalities are given the opportunity to try out this form of cooperation. Intermunicipal cooperation is about good cooperation across municipal borders. With this setting, we show that it is possible to agree on a lot even above the lot boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e158	The left has great confidence in local populace. That's why we don't mind giving local people-elected regulatory alternatives to the cooperation model to choose from. For some municipalities it is appropriate to delegate a task to a host municipality without the need to follow elected authorities’ supervision. In other cases, there may be a local democratic desire to maintain a small municipality but to cooperate with neighbouring municipalities on a certain number of tasks. There may be a need for both supervision and priority from elected representatives. Organising this as a co-municipality can then be a current model. The left recognizes the fundamental challenges associated with the regulation of the co-municipal model. In particular, in its hearings, the county councillors pointed out that setting up a new level of administration should not be the responsibility of the municipalities. In practice, however, we see the establishment of ever-increasing inter-municipal cooperation, and most municipalities are currently involved in a form of regional council, many with secretariats and administrative staff. The left accepts that a political majority may wish to limit political participation and influence over inter-municipal cooperation, but wants to regulate more opportunities for inter-municipal cooperation, which opens up greater and wider political participation. The choice of model has no difficulty at all in entrusting the local elected representatives, despite the fact that the large majority of local politicians do not belong to the Left. With the forthcoming administrative reform, I will assume that the demand for a joint municipal model will increase. An intermediate level, reduced in number and expanded in geography, will strengthen the need for cooperation between municipalities rather than weaken it. In view of this, there is no reason to wait to regulate the co-municipal model. The left is promoting this proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e175	The representative of Bjørg-Irene Østrem has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 139]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e193	This is a matter on which there is a cross-political agreement and which involves better coordination and coordination of State supervision of the local government sector. This means that a body of common legislation on the manner in which supervision is to be carried out, in the municipal law. It is clear from both the law and the positions expressed in the Committee's comments that the Committee is very committed to strengthening municipal autonomy and limiting supervision to those areas where it is strictly necessary, in the most cost-effective and efficient way of dealing with the follow-up of local authorities' responsibilities. In the same way as the committee working on this, and the Government, the Committee is concerned that there will be a new review of the scope of State supervision and that somehow it will come back to the Stortingen with the review. There are some deviations in the setting. The left has a specific comment related to the desire to establish a partner model. The Progress Party has a note relating to an Administrative Court. The right hand, the Progressive Party and the Left have a note relating to over-test and wish to limit the over-test of municipal decisions by the county and county council. But the vote is unanimous, and we look forward to presenting a separate case on the review of state supervision in order to limit this and make it more effective and measurable than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e204	I would like to point out that the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals to establish administrative courts in Norway, among others. in 2004 and 2006. The need for such courts is confirmed by the fact that courts in Norway rarely deal with administrative cases. The Progress Party wants to distinguish discretion and legality control, and believes that today’s county office has an unfortunate mix of these roles. I also believe that the possibility of judicial review is almost absent today, and it is not appropriate to increase respect for the legal framework for administration. I would also like to point out that the consequence is that legal certainty is worse in the daily life of the administration than is necessary, and that the current form of judicial control of the administration is clearly inadequate. The Party considers that administrative courts should be introduced as a substitute for appeal proceedings in the county office, and points out that many complaints in other administrative areas are currently being dealt with by court-like administrative bodies with specialised competence. These specialized bodies have been chosen to call names. In practice, there is a long way to go in these areas, not in the general courts. The Progress Party points to the fact that the process at Norwegian courts is traditionally strongly influenced by verbality, and therefore one is also heavily dependent on the use of lawyers, which means high costs and low efficiency. Nor has it been given that matters between administrative and private levels should be dealt with in accordance with the rules of civil procedure that the losing party should cover all costs, such as in cases of cross-border disputes, for example. I imagine that Norwegian administrative courts will use much more in writing, as is done in other countries that have administrative courts. What is important is that, as a general rule, a court should adhere to the rule of legality and not overstep political judgement of politically responsible bodies such as government, magnificence or local government. The Progress Party therefore considers that the only dangerous route is that the courts that review the authorities adhere to the legal framework and do not exercise political discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e221	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 141]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e237	The pharmacy pension scheme is a funded occupational pension scheme administered by the Statens Pensionkasse. The pension scheme is managed by a board of directors in which the pharmaceutical tariff parties are represented. The pharmacy sector has undergone major changes in recent years. The Pharmacy Act opened up more competition between pharmacies. The new Pharmacy Act, which came into force on 1 March 2001, opened the way for pharmacists to own and operate pharmacies. As a result of changes in the pharmacies sector, there is a need to make adjustments to the pharmacies pension scheme and to the law on contractual pensions for workers entitled to membership of the pharmacies pension scheme. It is proposed to adapt the legal text to changes which have occurred for pharmacists as a result of new ownership structures in the pharmacies sector and changes resulting from the organisation of workers in different tariff areas. The Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, has also made certain linguistic changes to the legislative text in addition to the Ministry's proposals in the proposal. The treatment now modifies rules for setting premiums. The pension premium is today equal to everyone and is determined by the King. It is proposed that the Ministry may fix different premiums for different establishments. The tariff areas in question have different levels of pay, and some enterprises have less use for, for example: disability pension other than others. It is natural that this affects the pension contribution of the pension scheme. The premium shall not be different because of age or gender. The law makes it clear that the pension contribution paid is a condition for the period of service of an employee to be regarded as a period of service. Joint regulation of pensions is linked not only to wages and salaries but also, as an alternative, to the percentage change in the basic amount of social security. The maximum pension base is set at 10 times the basic amount of social security. Today, the maximum pension base is 120 pst. of the highest fixed salary for temporary workers. The retirement age limit is raised from 68 years to 70 years. Pharmacies and pharmacists are currently the only ones with a 70-year age limit, while other members of the scheme have a 68-year age limit. Finally, it is proposed to repeal the pension reduction rule in relation to the pension of a private collective pension scheme. The rule is not in use today. The proposals in the proposal are largely based on recommendations from the board of directors of the scheme. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party support the employers' side that the law should be repealed. They will have to argue for their own vision. I would like to point out from the majority that the proposal states that the Ministry wants to assess whether pharmacies should be able to choose a pension scheme on a free basis and that the question is addressed as part of the pension reform. There are conditions that advocate the repeal of the law. The fact that pharmacies are largely private enterprises is a central element in this context. It is also clear that alternative legislation is available if the law is repealed. The reason why we are not in favour of repealing the law now is that it is necessary to assess whether the employment contracts and collective agreements restrict the termination of the pension scheme. The relationship with the provisions of the Basic Law on retroactive effect must also be considered in this context. Employees are currently compulsory members of the pension scheme, which means that pension costs are not a competitive element between employers. However, if the scheme is repealed, there is much to say that the pharmacies chains will choose cheaper pension schemes as part of reducing labour costs, which will affect workers. The majority of the Committee considers this to be a slightly desirable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e265	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job. The rapporteur, like the Council of State, has had a flexible attitude so that we have been able to make some adjustments in the last round of this case. I would like to point out, as the rapporteur pointed out, that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have primarily believed that the law should be repealed. One should have come to the Stortinget with a good transitional arrangement for those who have already earned personal arrangements, but as far as the pharmacies sector, like other sectors, were part of the scheme for pension reform. Since there is a work that would have required considerable preparation, we do not promote proposals on this either, but only mark it in the setting. Then I will refer to the changes in Section 4 and assume that the proposal of acceptance from the board involves acceptance from a voting number – and not a veto right. In such a model, the Chairman of the Board could be in a decisive position, with his double voice, and we therefore assume that a good arrangement is established where the Chairperson is appointed jointly by the employers. It is also the case that employers’ associations initially wanted the scheme to change the maximum pension base to 10 G to not be launched until the pension scheme board considered it to be an economic basis. However, the proposition states that the date of implementation of the change will be determined after consultation with the board, so that consideration of the impact of the change on the economy will be taken into account. We then assume that the government has thus met the employers' association in a good way, and we join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 142]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e284	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e292	A proposal has been made by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for full non-tax treatment of administrative services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and for stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e332	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e342	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e350	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by the Bjørg-Irene Eastrem on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendment to the Local Government Act to allow local government to choose from a wider range of cooperation models for inter-municipal cooperation.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e601	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e611	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e712	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e722	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e949	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e959	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-30-lower.ana.ud1152e1039	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
