ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-03.ana.ud2612e511	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! When the 151th big thing that your Majesty has opened today starts his work, we have just marked the five-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September. The strong signal in the throne that the Government will work to strengthen and reform the UN has broad support in the Storing. If our measures to combat the terrorist threats are to succeed, they must be enshrined in the principles of international law and in decisions taken by legitimate international bodies. Moreover, we need to be aware that conflicts and wars in Africa, the Middle East and other parts of the world create a brutal reality and human humiliation that contributes to recruiting terrorist groups. We therefore need the United Nations authority to resolve conflicts, which gives people hope that dialogue and reconciliation will be beneficial. Where there are no channels for peaceful engagement, violence often becomes the option for many. The Trontale offers that the Storting will have several issues of major importance for consideration in the forthcoming session, not least in the area of welfare policy. Combating poverty, improving job opportunities for all and distributing health and other welfare services fairly is about the very core of the welfare state. The announced administrative reform will provide the basis for the long-term outlook of the public sector. Better integration of immigrants is central to a multicultural society. It will undoubtedly be welcomed in the whole of the Great Government that the Government warns that the fight against poverty is one of its main causes. It is in many ways a paradox — yes, it may even appear to be a mystery — that a country that has a completely unparalleled wealth in history, at the same time, feels that too many fall outside. The reason may be what may appear to be one of the inherent contradictions of the welfare society: the well-organised society we've been given means security for most people, but at the same time it often becomes a struggle between those who are well-organised, between those who belong to groups that are strong from before and who can therefore bill their demands on the state budget. But someone doesn't belong to such a group. They are easily forgotten and marginalized. It is my hope that the Storting will be more aware of this in its work and become a speaker for all those who are not always caught up in our welfare community. In Stortinget we have put the first year of the term behind us, and new committees, delegations and party groups have found their form. Many have also found that new positions also offer new perspectives. Also in a situation of majority rule, Stortinget has its important function. After the cases have come to the Stortinget from the Government, the Stortinget, with its committee proceedings, hearings and public debates, is a guarantee that all aspects of a case will be clarified. Yes, this process ensures that everyone outside this house is given the opportunity to express themselves – also to demonstrate, which is a legitimate and necessary part of our democracy. Your Majesty can be sure that the Storting takes its task as the people's extended arm into the governance system seriously, and we are sure that the Government sees this as an advantage. As elected representatives, we should be even better at listening and knowing the people on the pulse. We also need to listen to what's happening in the world. Criticism that the Storting spends a lot of money on the fact that the committees travel abroad has almost become an annual phenomenon. What is the alternative? I think it is absolutely necessary for the representatives of bigots to have close contact with the reality of the world, that we listen to all those who despair, to those who are on the run and ask for help, to those who call for food for their children. We must also listen to colleagues who have solutions, who want political action to create a more fair and secure world. Parliamentary cross-border contact also has a different dimension. Often you can hear that we're going to have the world's best school, the world's best health care, the world's best of both one and the other. The point must be that we should do the best for our own people, based on our own culture and our own experiences. Other countries are looking for solutions that are best for them. But we can learn something from them, and we can bring something back to them. Such a cross-border learning process cannot, in essence, be achieved by means other than travelling or, as is said in a Chinese proverb, ‘It is better to see once than to hear ten times.’ As your Majesty pointed out in the Common Era, we have great resources in Norway, but still problems of distribution. And the world has many who suffer, and Mother Earth cries for help to avoid further warming and dehydration. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost here at home and in cooperation with democratic forces outside, we gather in the old and important desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-03.ana.ud2612e539	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
