ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e41	The representative Eirin Kristin Sund, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative Trine Skei Grande from 28 March onwards and until further notice from the Christian People's Party Group on the leave of the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund from 29 March to 31 March to attend the meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Prague, Czech Republic. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Kjell Ingolf Ropstad For Oslo: Alvhild Hedstein – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Alvhild Hedstein is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e82	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e101	Until now, 15 people have been confirmed sick of a ‘sint strain’ of the bacteria type E. coli O103. And most tragically, a little boy of four years died on March 9 as a result of acute renal failure. I am very concerned about the fear – and grief – that has affected the individuals, and I sincerely hope that we will soon see the end of this serious outbreak. The Public Health Institute confirmed on 22 March the findings of E. coli O103 in two samples of Sognemorr from Gilde Terina, Sogndal. The bacteria are identical to those found in patients. We have therefore moved a long way forward, but a lot of work remains to be done to try to find the source. The case shows that we have good infection monitoring and methods to digest, even if the methods are complicated and unfortunately take time. Professionally, this has been a difficult matter. As you know, the government has announced a full review of the matter afterwards, and we will learn from it. Together with the Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have started a process on behalf of the Government with a view to a complete external evaluation. I assure you that this evaluation will involve all stakeholders. We're going to get a wide range of professionals from both home and abroad, so we can be sure that the case is also assessed by people who haven't been involved in the handling. Both the system and the handling shall be evaluated. All aspects of the case shall be reviewed: the professional, the administrative and informational. It will be important to see whether the facts that have been drawn up have come quickly enough and have been properly assessed, whether the necessary measures have been taken, and whether we are going to improve our systems. The food is a quite natural part of everyone's everyday life, and therefore this matter naturally has also aroused so much public interest. I understand that many, especially young children's parents, have been concerned, and perhaps are still concerned. It is clear that our food should be safe and that consumers should be able to trust it. We have chosen a high level of protection in our country, among others. expressed by the Food Act, but we have to find, not least through this case, that this does not work by itself. It's a fight that has to be fought every day at all levels. The Food Act is known as a new law from 1 January 2004. It covers all aspects of the whole food production chain, from and including primary production — fishing and livestock — even placing on the market for consumers. This shall ensure that all stages of the chain collectively take responsibility for the safety of our food. The distribution of powers between the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs was established on 19 December 2003. This specific case concerns infection via meat products. I am responsible for the legislation, and for its supervision, at all processing and marketing stages after the animals have been killed. If measures are necessary in slaughterhouses or later in the production chain, it is my responsibility. Measures against dirty livestock in the herd or to identify the presence of E. coli in the livestock population are the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. It is the establishments responsible for ensuring compliance with the legislation. Where there are grounds for suspecting a risk to foodstuffs harmful to health, establishments shall immediately take the necessary measures to prevent and reduce injury, including to stop placing on the market and putting into effect the withdrawal. Food surveillance is known as the main public actor in the management of food infection. This is why the Food Act emphasises that the Danish Food Authority has a separate responsibility and is responsible for the measures on a professional basis. Food surveillance may require establishments to withdraw food if they do not take adequate measures themselves. Where a health hazard is suspected, the Authority shall provide relevant information to the public and shall not be wasted on human health. The Public Health Institute has an independent responsibility for disease surveillance. The Food Authority and the Public Health Institute have worked closely together and kept the Minister of Agriculture and Food informed. The efforts of the trade unions and professional assessments will also be part of the external evaluation we are now carrying out. I will explain briefly the main features of the case until today. In this case, it has been known to have been two main tracks that have been prominent, it is meat dough trail and the bacon trail. On Monday 20 February, the Public Health Institute was informed that three children were hospitalized with the rare kidney disease haemolytic-uremic syndrome – HUS. Further contact with the country’s hospital showed that there were six patients between 20 January and 20. of February. Later, more patients also arrived. As of today, there are 15 patients who are related to the case. The Public Health Institute has interviewed patients and their relatives to find the source of the infection. Information on activities, places of residence and consumption of food and drink is compared with similar information from a control group. According to the Institute, such case-control studies are internationally recognised. If bacteria of equal identity are detected in a food, in an animal herd or in a food business related to the patient, the cause is normally considered to have been confirmed. Based on the first six patients, the Public Health Institute reported to the Food Safety Authority on 24 February that probably cause was valid meat dough. Depending on the need for public warning, valids had to decide at short notice which of the production sites of valid meat dough was likely to be the source. On the same day, validity was likely to make the Rudhögda plant the best match with the information that was then available. Validity confirmed that they themselves put in place the necessary measures to prevent, reduce or eliminate any adverse effects. Gilde also chose to withdraw, as is known on the same day, the valid carbaed dough and family dough, because these could be treated as Gilde’s carbaed dough. Later that weekend they were also sold as Coop meat dough and Meny meat dough with raw materials from Rudshögda were withdrawn. The Public Health Institute then reported to the Food Safety Authority on 10 March that information from patients no. 7–9 added that the relatives could not have known that they had eaten dough products from Gilde. This led to increased attention to dough products with raw materials from Rudhøgda in general. On 11 March the Food Safety Authority issued advice to the public that all dough products of bovine animals purchased from 1 January to 24. February as people still had at home, not to be eaten. Through contact with the industry, the Food Authority wanted to clarify in a few days which products were linked to industrial raw materials from Rudhögda and which consumers should not eat. According to the Food Authority, this work was very difficult. The Food Authority chose as it is known to ask consumers to return or discard all dairy products of bovine animals regardless of the brand purchased from 1 January to 24. of February. There was a great deal of media activity at this time and a great need for clarification for the audience – understandably enough. At the end of week 11 food surveillance gained an understanding that some industrial customers could still have some frozen, non-heat-treated products on the market, where parts of the raw materials could originate from Gilde Rudhögda in the period from 1 January to 24. of February. This was confirmed in a meeting with the industry on 17 March. On this basis, on 18 and 19 March, the Food Safety Authority prepared a regulation on bans on the movement, public information and practical contact with the industry. The Food Safety Authority itself considers that it is critical that these measures were not put into effect immediately after 24 February. The Food Authority took a self-criticism that no more clear and written expectations had been given to Gilde and Gilde’s customers related to such industrial raw materials, and that they had not verified that this point was being followed up in practice. In view of the new saliva trail and the Public Health Institute’s assessment of the meat dough trail as less likely than before, the Food Safety Authority, in consultation with the Public Health Institute, considered that sufficient measures were in place to prevent possible contamination by the meat dough trail. In retrospect, several thousand samples have been examined. No one has been positive so that one could confirm the suspicion. However, negative tests do not lead to the suspicion being remedied. The Food Safety Authority and the Institute of Public Health worked to assess whether new cases of disease could be explained by the assumed cause of carnivores and evaluated other foods related to patients. These included: yoghurt, mediocre and meat dough from other producers, but these were checked out of the case. Information from patients No. 7–14 provided a much wider range of information and a much greater need to analyse the information than the information from the first six patients. Interviews with patients No. Data were obtained from 7–11 that led to more extensive interviews also by patients no. 1 to 6. This gave a new picture of the case, where the Gilde Terina plant in Sogndal was centrally located. This leads to the current situation, where an identical strain of E. coli O103 has been detected in Sognemorr from this plant. The Public Health Institute reported to the Food Safety Authority on 20 March that the bacon trail could now be considered as the main track. The track continued to evolve as new information came to light, and was associated with Gilde Birkebeiner Fjellmorr, Gilde Birkebeiner Sognemorr and Gilde Haugpølse produced from 1 December 2005 to 20 March 2006 by Gilde Terina in Sogndal. The Food Safety Authority placed a ban on the placing on the market of these products on 20 March and the plant was closed as it was known. The Public Health Institute believes that the new lead has a much safer basis than the previous one, because the number of patients is larger, and because E. coli O103 has been detected. The Food Authority has tried to provide continuous information to the public and the media, as the Food Act requires on suspicion that a health risk related to the consumption of food may arise. The Food Safety Authority has stated that it is difficult to reconcile the considerations of full transparency and active action after suspicion with regard to simple and consistent information to consumers and to prevent groundless market impact on nutrition. The meat industry, especially Gilde, has come into a difficult situation as a result of this case. Valde has stated that the group currently has an activity reduction of 25 pst. as a result of the market reactions, with reduced employment and accumulation of slaughter animals in the poultry. We understand the pressures the industry has felt during the time that the matter has taken place, and the fear of the market consequences. But as the responsible minister for the food we buy is safe, we have to take good care of health first. The Food Act is also ready for this. The establishments and the Food Safety Authority shall assess whether there is a suspicion of a risk to health harmful food and act accordingly. We have again been reminded that food security is not something we can take for granted. Food security must be ensured through active action at all levels every day. Therefore, there is every reason to remember once again that good hygiene is important at all stages. We need a food industry that takes its responsibility seriously, and we need effective supervision. I would also like to look at schemes that can provide consumers with better information on food than is the case on a case-by-case basis. today. It is important that everyone complies with the legislation. As far as possible, we're trying to avoid such outbreaks as we've seen now being repeated. Nevertheless, we must unfortunately be prepared that sometimes there may be difficult things like this, but everything that stands in our power is to be done to prevent it. The thorough evaluation we are about to carry out will also improve our ability to address such issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e164	The Minister of Health and Health has now had a broad review of the course of events until today in the E. coli case, and I agree with what has been said. This matter has also affected me greatly. Families have gone through heavy days and weeks when their children have been seriously ill. In particular, I will express my deep compassion for the family that experienced the loss of a child. As the Minister of Health and Care has been involved, this concerns the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health and Health as well as those of the Ministry of Health and Health. We have had close and good cooperation all the way. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I am also administratively responsible for the Food Authority. The fact that the case concerns responsibilities in several departments is not specific in this case. At the same time, there is a consequence of the restructuring that was carried out in the food sector when the Food Authority was set up. Former governments have presented the organisation of the Stortinget on several occasions, and there has been broad political agreement on this. The establishment of a joint food surveillance body responsible for supervision and control throughout the food production chain is precisely based on the need for a whole chain of thought. We now have one regulation, and one supervision of responsibility for the whole food chain from the manufacturer to the consumer. Several food scandals in Europe over the past 10–15 years have also shown clearly that it is at the farm, at the inputs and in the farm the important work to ensure food safety is starting. The better the basis for food safety in the early stages of the chain, the better the possibility of products being health-friendly when they reach the consumer. But it's important to remember that we can never guarantee zero risk. There will always be a certain risk of pathogenic bacteria in biological material. That's why we still have to have strict rules and a number of barriers to make sure that food is safe. Fortunately, serious outbreaks of foodborne diseases rarely occur in Norway. In some areas, we have a clearly better infectious situation via food than in other countries. This can be illustrated by the presence of salmonella infections among humans in Norway, with about 80 pst. the cases are caused by infection from abroad. This is thanks to our very good animal health status. We're used to Norway, and that's also why we take it so seriously and get so affected when something like this E. coli case happens. So a little bit to the sequence of events. The details have already been thoroughly explained. In view of the fact that meat dough from the very beginning was referred to as the most likely source of infection, there was, of course, a strong focus on hygiene in connection with slaughter. Both in our country and in other countries there are dangerous E. coli bacteria in the intestines of a small number of cattle and sheep. It's a relationship we have to live with. Good and safe slaughter hygiene must prevent these bacteria from being transferred to the meat. At that time, there was also a report from the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, following inspections of slaughterhouses and cutting establishments, where both the industry and the Food Safety Authority were subject to criticism. Therefore, on the basis of the very serious situation, I called the Swedish Food Safety Authority, the Veterinary Institute, the Joint Committee of the Meat Industry, the Swedish Meat Industry Association and Gilde to a meeting on March 3 to provide information on the status and progress of the case. The Ministry of Health and Welfare also attended this meeting. The industry briefed here on a number of immediate measures to improve slaughter hygiene, and the Food Safety Authority briefed on measures in relation to what was mentioned in the ESA report. At this meeting, as administratively responsible for the Food Safety Authority, I was concerned to be assured that the necessary resources and competences had been put on the matter. It was agreed that one had to cooperate widely with different professional environments in the pursuit of the source of infection. On Thursday 16 March, I again took the initiative with the Minister of Health and Health at a meeting with the Food Authority, the Institute of Public Health and the Veterinary Institute. The background for this meeting was to be briefed on status and progress. We dealt in particular with the communication arrangements that the Food Safety Authority was facing. We assured the trade unions that there would be no resources in this case in relation to the important work they were now in the middle of. Then I want to link a few words to the role-sharing between the Institute of Public Health and the Food Authority. Under the Food Act, the Food Authority is responsible for the risk management of this type of case. The supervisory measures and decisions shall be based on a professional basis which the supervision can obtain from the knowledge institutions, in order to have the best possible professional anchoring of risk management. In this case, the Public Health Institute’s professional contribution played a central role for the Food Authority, since in this case – until 22 March – only patient information was the basis for assessing what was the most likely source of infection. However, I have been assured throughout that other relevant professional environments were also involved in these assessments, such as: The Veterinary Institute. There have been many, including here in this Chamber, who have had opinions and expressed their views on the role and responsibilities of the Food Safety Authority in this matter. I therefore think it might be right to link some further comments to that. The Food Act states that the activities are responsible for ensuring that all relevant provisions and requirements are complied with by law. The establishment shall immediately take measures to prevent, reduce or eliminate any adverse effects arising from suspicion of harmful food, including the cessation of placing on the market and withdrawal. The Food Safety Authority is responsible for the supervision and control of the establishments, but also has a responsibility to impose on the establishment, inter alia. to withdraw or destroy food if the establishment fails to implement its obligations under the law. Food surveillance is also responsible for adequate and relevant information to the public. A fundamental principle, and the precondition for the functioning of the Food Safety Authority, is the need to ensure the health and life of consumers. It is clear from both the food law itself and its processor that the main purpose of the law is to ensure that food is health-friendly. When balancing interests between different considerations, health considerations are the overall concern. In setting up the Food Authority and adopting a new food law, the need for a clear and tidy distribution of roles between actors in the field of food was a central issue. Creating a clearer distinction between subjects, management and policy was one of the principles underlying it. Therefore, supervision has a high degree of independence in supervisory activities. It is assumed that the departments generally do not instruct or intervene in individual decisions taken by the Food Authority in the ordinary supervisory work. The handling of complaints in individual cases is also largely internal to the Food Safety Authority. It is the Food Authority which, on a professional basis, if necessary after consulting the relevant professional bodies, takes decisions and implements the necessary measures in line with their supervisory responsibilities under the Food Act. In this way, the necessary trust in the work of supervision and regulatory management shall be created. From a different perspective, comments have been made that give the impression that the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should have different objectives in the field of food. To that I would say the following: Safe food is priority No. 1 for the Food Policy Government. This applies both to me as Minister of Agriculture and Food, to the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, and to the Minister of Health and Care. We are responsible for the fact that legislation and administration in each of our areas have safe food as their main concern. There's no ambiguity here. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I would like to stress that safe food is also the main objective. 1 for agricultural policy. Agriculture has a contract with society and will provide safe food. It is this trust that agriculture lives on, and that creates legitimacy for an agriculture throughout the country. I would say that high confidence in Norwegian-produced goods is one of the Norwegian agriculture's greatest competitive advantages. The basis for this trust is already laid on the individual farm. Compromising with food security will therefore be a little forward-looking industrial policy. The responsibility of the industry in this matter also shows how crucial the industry itself is to assess this confidence. High consumer confidence is also dependent on high trust in the agencies responsible for the supervision of the food production chain. I fully understand that the matter has been confusing and has created uncertainty in people. Providing simple, understandable information on this matter has been a major challenge for the Food Authority. They also recognize that this is an improvement point. I would like to take the opportunity to explain why the Food Safety Authority has had a particularly demanding task here. The system of the Food Act and the responsibility of the Food Authority for supervision require a suspect to be acted on. At the same time, the measures and decisions taken shall be proportionate to the objective pursued. There shall be proportionality between objectives and means. The greater the danger, the greater reason to intervene. This is the framework for the work of the Food Authority. Food surveillance is independent and shall not be instructed in its professional judgements and actions. This is the system of food law, and it is based on principles for supervisory activities for which there has been broad political agreement. At the same time, the Food Authority shall at all times provide the public with relevant information. All of this shows some of the complexity of this matter. As the Minister of Health and Health had in mind, there is a very demanding task for the Food Safety Authority to take full account of the need for transparency, the requirement to act on suspicion, as well as simple and consistent information. In this context, the Consumer Council has made critical comments on the functioning of this information and communication to consumers. I therefore had a meeting with the Consumer Council on 22 March to hear the direct background for this criticism. The matter has taken a lot of resources at the Food Authority. The employees have worked day and night to get closer to a solution. It is not now possible to estimate exactly which extraordinary costs have been incurred or will continue to be incurred in the future. As far as possible, the government will come back with details and proposals related to the matter in the revised national budget. So I want to say a little bit about traceability. The case just updates the need for better traceability. In Norway, many environments, industries and actors have well-developed systems of traceability and technical solutions for this. However, we should improve the interconnection of the data available. In the autumn of 2005, the Food Safety Authority took the initiative to cooperate between supervision, other public actors and industry actors for a coordinated, improved traceability system for food. I will now call the industry and the Food Agency to be briefed on this work. The aim is to make better use of the existing data base by means of new technologies. I want to launch a pre-project to get this work going, and I want to take the initiative to set it off by 2 million. to this task in 2006. This is a major and comprehensive matter that has had major consequences. It is therefore important and necessary to summarise and evaluate the case as soon as it is sufficiently clarified. With the complexity and the great pressure that has been, there will certainly be things that could have been done differently along the way. This is important for us to map and learn from. From this point of view, I believe that a broad external evaluation of all relevant aspects of the case should be carried out. In such an evaluation, the management of the authorities must be of the utmost importance. Furthermore, it will be necessary for the evaluation to cover all parties involved, the enterprises concerned, the meat industry and the role of the media. The evaluation should be carried out by persons with the necessary independence and expertise. Therefore, international expertise will play a central role in evaluation work. The size will be kept properly informed about this work. This case has been a serious trial for everyone involved. This has had tragic consequences. Now we have to take the time we need to evaluate and to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e248	The President will now propose that, by reference to Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, a final statement from each of the Councils. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e253	This is a matter that has been a major concern of all of us. 14 children and one adult have become seriously ill and one child has died from E. coli infection. We feel with the families who have been hit and who have had heavy days in the last few weeks. In particular, I would like to express deep compassion for the family that, unfortunately, has lost a child. In addition, many have felt anxiety and uncertainty both in relation to possible sources of infection and in relation to food safety in general. On this basis, I think it was good to get such a thorough explanation from both the Minister of Health and Health and from the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the matter. We are used to being able to eat safely all the food sold in Norway. We expect everything has been treated as it should, and all possible errors in the treatment are discovered and the products stopped. For Norway, a comprehensive regulatory framework is in place to ensure that food is safe to eat. At the same time, we have our own food surveillance system to monitor and monitor compliance by the different establishments with the relevant provisions they are required to comply with. This case shows, however, that we are not fully aware of possible food contamination. The Minister for Agriculture and Food pointed out that food security is objective No. 1 in agricultural policy. Such a target is set for health reasons, but not least for agriculture itself. High quality is one of Norwegian agriculture’s foremost competitive advantages. That is why we have a comprehensive system to address weaknesses in the production and treatment of food, and methods to detect possible contamination. These methods have now led us to seem to have come a long way in finding the source of the infection in this case. There has been a professionally demanding work that has involved several professional bodies, as the State Councils have informed us. However, this case has revealed clear weaknesses in the system. Both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture have referred to areas where the Food Authority also believes that there is room for improvement. Now we have to learn from this process. It is necessary to carry out a full external evaluation of all aspects of the case, as the Councils have also indicated. This is how you can see whether something could have been done differently, and whether you can make changes that can prevent a similar situation later. The statements we have just heard confirm that the government has assured the trade unions that it would not be on resources to resolve the matter. However, the supervision itself must and must be carried out by professionals. The Food Act gives the professional authorities independent responsibility, and neither the Food Authority nor the Public Health Institute shall be instructed in their professional judgements. Neither has the government. This case shows that the Food Authority has particularly demanding tasks related to information in this type of case. What seems to have made the information difficult has been the various suspicions associated with sources of infection. However, it is important to point out here that the Food Safety Authority has been given responsibility for initiating measures based on suspicion. So they should not wait until there is a safe source of infection found before action is taken. This is also part of putting food safety in the high seat. It shall prevent further damage. I think we all need to see that as a force of regulation, even though that, as in this case, can help to make the matter confusing. We have been reminded in this case that food safety is not a matter of course, but something that all actors must take into account every day. The food industry must take this responsibility seriously and ensure good hygiene at all stages. There is no doubt that the meat industry, and especially Gilde, is hit hard by this matter. They think they have an activity reduction of 25 pst. as a result of the market reaction. It is serious for industry and for employment. Nevertheless, it is clear that we need to put food safety at the top. The Food Authority must assess whether there has been a breach of some of the provisions of the Food Act in this case. I have confidence that the government will now start a process in which the whole matter is reviewed, and that something could have been done differently. It will then have to be assessed whether action can be taken to prevent and prevent such outbreaks in the future and whether action can be taken to speed up the detection of possible infections. Similarly, as pointed out by the Councils, information procedures need to be reviewed. Unfortunately, such a review will not do about what has happened in this case. But it will at least reveal whether you have the opportunity to stand slightly better rusted in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e282	Let me start by thanking the two Councils for their thorough presentation, which underlined the seriousness of the situation we are now in, and the importance of taking the necessary action in both the short and long term. The E. coli case has created considerable uncertainty among Norwegian consumers as to whether Norwegian food is safe enough. We've been used to a few things here in Norway where questions have been asked about whether the food we eat is safe enough. We have also heard from the food industry that Norwegian food has even been safer than foreign food. After the matter that we have now been through, it is time to stop a little bit and question whether all the truths that we have not previously questioned are still valid. The fact that children are going to be seriously ill — and some are dying — of food that everyone has the greatest confidence in is very tragic, and that is something that cannot be accepted in our modern society. We all feel that they are affected by this matter. In our society, everyone who buys food must be sure that they do not run any risk of eating ordinary foods from producers who have great confidence in the market. In the food sector, you're dependent on 100 pst. confidence among consumers that industry operators meet the requirements of control, hygiene and quality that can be expected from them. Failure to trust will have a serious impact on consumer and industry confidence. When we get episodes like the E. coli case, we also see that trust gets lost quickly, and that the sale falls quickly. This has major societal implications for consumers, businesses and farmers. Now that the source of infection has probably been found – I have to say ‘probably’, because there is still some confusion about whether the source has been found – one has to be able to ask questions about whether the matter has been handled well enough by the authorities and the meat industry. Our opinion is that a thorough review of all the relevant aspects of the case must be carried out, and it is good that the Government now announces that this will be carried out. But that it goes about. One month from the first outbreaks until the source of the infection is found, it is not acceptable – it is too long. When the starting point is a very low tolerance level to accept an outbreak of this kind, it must be expected that an outbreak will take a short time until the source of the infection is found. We can't accept that this will take several weeks. Food surveillance should be a security mechanism – it should ensure that we can have food security in this country that allows consumers to have 100 pst. trust in the products they purchase. There is reason to ask questions about whether the Food Safety Authority passed the test this time. We now need a thorough review both of this matter and of the overall organisation in the field of food. The following elements must be illuminated in such a review: evaluation of the E. coli caseThe organisation and working method information management of the quality management of the meat industryThe origin marking and traceability of the products In addition, it is essential to look at the close links between the actors in the food industry. The farmers are also owners of the largest production holdings, such as: Gilde. Therefore, there is reason to question whether cooperatives dare to impose tough enough quality requirements on their owners, which are also the ones supplying the meat. Does the car driver from Gilde, who sees an animal that is dirty or has poor health, tell him that this animal can unfortunately not be taken to the slaughterhouse because of a possible risk of infection? In addition, the Food Safety Authority has local representatives in the slaughterhouses who will be linked to the unit to be checked. It would also be natural to ask questions as to whether it is correct that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should be responsible for the supervision of foodstuffs, at the risk of mixing industrial interests with control work. This case has also revealed that we do not have a good enough system for the labelling and traceability of meat products. This must be given priority, and I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture in his speech signalled so strongly that this is a work that the Government will now give priority to. The size also has a Document No. 8proposals from the Progress Party to address these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e317	During the Chernobyl accident in 1986, I happened to be on a week-long university visit in Bulgaria, and the distance from where the accident happened is relatively short. Within a week of the accident, the citizens of Bulgaria had not heard a single word from the authorities about what had happened, and my own knowledge of what had happened was given me per. Phone with Oslo. Clearly, it is not the way that political authorities should deal with difficult threats in relation to the lives and health of the population. In other words, what we have experienced in Norway over the past few weeks and months has been an example of the opposite, namely an extreme form of publicity, how close to any conceivable suspicion has been ventilated on the television screen in daily broadcasts. The way in which it is done also creates a problem, namely that those who are to receive the information have very little opportunity to assess its credibility. I very much appreciate the fact that both Councils show considerable humility and openness in wanting a complete evaluation of all aspects of the matter through an independent expert group. That's well-founded. But perhaps the most important side of that process is the information page, because the impression that has been created is that there was clearly no overall information strategy from the first moment of it. This is why, in particular, the most vulnerable target group, namely young children’s parents, has had reason to feel quite confused as new and partly conflicting information was bombarded. There also appears to have been no direct professional disagreement, so at least different approaches from the respective health page – Public Health Institute – information on the matter and the information that has come from the Food Authority. This argues that in view of the future, it should be assessed whether there should not be a firm strategy on how to deal with information activities towards the population, and at least there should be clear rules on which state council should have overall responsibility for the coordination of information activities. This case shows that the legislative work prepared by the previous government, which was adopted by the Stortinget during the previous enlargement period, can certainly be correct on the drawing board, but that there is a very complex structure, which is not least in terms of the division of responsibilities – who has the political responsibility for which parts of the business – is probably far too complicated. Such systems may be suitable in good weather, but they are rarely suitable in stormstorms. That is why there is a great deal to talk about when conclusions are to be drawn, to place the coordination responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare. After all, food safety concerns the importance of human life and health and ensuring that human life and health are not exposed to undue risks due to poor quality of what is offered in shops. When it is decided that a full evaluation should be carried out, no one should draw the conclusions in advance – but I would like to signal, at least for the time being, that there are two considerations that must be overall. One is to assess whether the professional bodies currently possess sufficient competence and freedom and independence to carry out the professional assessments. The second is that the political responsibility for the information strategy in crisis needs to be given much greater importance than what was done when the map was drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e330	It's a very serious situation when kids get sick from eating food you buy at the store – yes, even if you feel that some people are sadly dying from the food they eat. That's why I fully understand that especially those who have little kids get worried before they know what's good to eat, and what's not good to eat. In this period, while you've been investigating, there's been something uncertain where the infection comes from. One moment you have removed meat dough because you thought the infection came from there, the next moment it comes from bacon sausage, etc. Clearly, this causes anxiety and, in part, fear in many parents. So we have to take inwards that this is very complicated. Finding such a type of bacteria is very complicated, because we know how many components are in the different products, and how many places you produce the different products. I must say that the efforts of the ministers of this government and the Food Agency have been in pursuit of this source of infection, it seems to me, have been formidable. It's a complicated problem, and I'm very happy that you now seem to have come to terms with it. We agreed with the Stortinget on the reorganization of the Food Authority during the previous growing-up period. I am pleased that the Council of State is now signaling that a review of this matter will be carried out. I think it's way too early to conclude, as some people do, that you have to change the organisation of the Food Authority. We have done so far with the new Food Safety Authority, and I believe that this needs to get something more going before you go out and conclude. Of course, we on the SV side will also look closely at an evaluation report before drawing the final conclusions. What this is all about is what many big business representatives, and not least from my party, have mentioned earlier, that we in Norway need to focus on safe food. Focusing on cheap food is what some people do, but we have to focus on safe food, that we can be 100 pst. Make sure that the food we put in is not harmful to health. I believe that once we have cleared up this matter, we will focus even more on routines both in slaughterhouses, on farms, on production plants and on how we can optimise this with safe food. In this perspective, short-range food is an interesting piece. The fact that we're sending food around to many places makes it even more difficult to track where a possible source of infection comes from. We have today a transport of food that is formidable, not only in Norway, but also from abroad to Norway. Then I have registered that in the media from representatives there has been criticism of government councils in dealing with this matter. I have to say that in my party we do not understand. We cannot see that any government council could handle this matter in any other way. You have chosen to run a transparency line, and you have chosen to deploy the necessary resources. It's been a full ride all the way to try to find this source of infection, and you finally succeeded. I would like to distance myself from the criticism that some people have brought against the members of the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e345	Saka we have been given a clear statement about today, shows that lack of food security can have tragic consequences. Our thoughts are therefore with the victims of the infected food – what they have been through, and what many of those are still inside. This evil cause has also to a great extent been marked by a nagging and evil insecurity: What is safe to eat? Do you want to find the resource? Can we trust that the control apparatus – which is to ensure that the food we eat is clean and free of infection – works as it should? In fact, this issue has two main challenges: firstly, to find the source of infection, and secondly, to strengthen confidence in food monitoring. If the source of infection now knows that the infection came from spice sausage, and as far as I understand it, the search continues for how the infection might have got there. After what I read, it can be difficult to get this clarified. This shows how important it is to have food that can be traced back to the supplier and the manufacturer. Better labelling will give consumers better security, and the fact that good labelling gives greater confidence also makes it an advantage for those who produce and translate food. Several have been critical of the communication of the Food Authority in this matter. In the light of the post-clock, we should realize that many users experienced the information as something non-slip, and then when the counter-messages came, the confusion increased and with that insecurity. This has done something with the full confidence of the control apparatus for our food security. Governments, or state councils, have a major challenge in building this trust. Consumers simply need a lot of trust in food supervision. The role, methodology and interaction of the Institute for Public Health with the Authority should also be considered. In such cases, it is also invaluable that political leadership is available and visible all the time. This too has reasonably our case, for it is to the seventh and last where the ultimate responsibility lies. But the fact that a government council can also be open about insecurity can actually provide a basis for confidence in certain situations. And that's exactly what this thing we've been in now, is one example, that it's a good thing that a person can express that he can't control everything, that he can actually trust. The Christian People's Party believes that we need a prejudiced assessment of whether the political leadership of the Food Authority we now have is the right organization. The Christian People's Party expects that no one initially goes into the trenches, but that we can get a factual and good discussion from this important side as well. This case shows with all clarity how important food security is to people’s health. E. coli outbreaks, together with avian influenza, increased use of environmental toxins and a more globalised food turnover, etc., make food security an increasingly important theme for consumers. We now need a comprehensive political grip on these challenges. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will ask the Government to present a big message about our food security. Such a message should, of course, evaluate the experience of this food scandal, but also assess the political organisation of food security supervision. Furthermore, such a communication must outline potential challenges for the food industry, the environment, global trade and consumer change and provide strategies for meeting these challenges. We need a message that can facilitate a broader political debate on food security than we have today. We need such a debate to meet the challenges in the future in a good way. I would like to ask the Councils to clarify whether they want to facilitate such broad political management, i.e. with a message to the Stortinget. I hope we get a positive answer to that. The task is now about to increase confidence in food security control. It is an advantage for all parties, mainly consumers, but also for producers and for the control apparatus. The main task of the government is now to make sure that this trust is strengthened again!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e377	Let me first express myself to the individuals and families who are the victims of disease and who have gone through a very difficult time. The family that lost their child is a source of special attention and concern. Two councillors have now done their best for their work with E. coli O103. There can be no doubt that they have handled the matter very seriously. They have shared the tasks, they have close contacts with each other and with their respective professional bodies, including a clear message that it should not be on resources when it comes to finding the source of the infection. Governments have behaved neatly and humbly. It is right in such a demanding case. They have also indicated an external evaluation of their work. It is wise to have a thorough evaluation of the effort. It will provide knowledge and experience for later issues. It is also good that the Government is now announcing an offensive effort for tracking. It's a thing that's over-mature. Farmers, feed producers, veterinarians and the food industry have all the data. The government is now taking the necessary responsibility to follow the food back to its starting point. The centre party has with increasing wonder followed the opposition's many outcomes and implications in a very demanding situation. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have followed up their question of the Minister of Agriculture and Food's flexibility – an unintelligible and unnecessary derailment, which is no longer a topic. Right, Christian People's Party and Left may well have seen Norway's record of disclaimer and post-clearance when, in these last weeks, they have voiced criticism of the way food supervision is organized. It's five months, and not five years since they ran this country. It's just these parties that are responsible for today's organization. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party were deeply disunited in the way in which the Bondevik-II government presented the organisation of the Food Authority. Budget-in-one. S. No 8, Appendix No 1 for 2002 - 2003, including the following note: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and Christian People’s Party, has found that the Government has carried out a very high-speed process, which, according to several hearing bodies, has led many to feel that the proceedings have not been properly handled. Reference is made to the fact that, among other things: have been held consultation meetings with very short notice and unclear status.» The National Audit Office has otherwise come up with strong criticism of the Ministry for the Preparation and Implementation of the Organisation of the Food Authority. There is a glare in the face of Mr. Lars Sponheim, Minister of Agriculture and Food, who is meeting Lars Sponheim's inadequate handling of the matter – a matter that is currently being dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of Storting. It is also interesting to note that the Progress Party wants to step up efforts from different instances. The progress party proposed 50 million. kr i cut in the 2007 budget to the Food Authority. That's what I'm talking about. Erna Solberg spent a time demanding too many to doubt the quality of Norwegian food. It's important to remember the facts, e.g. that the EU’s joint report says that while 80 pst. in the case of salmonella in Norway, 90 pst comes from infection abroad. of cases such as: The Netherlands and Germany from domestic infection. Many have reason to rejoice that the country has a government that prioritises safe food, which maintains that it is an important competitive advantage and that sees the link between safe food and good animal health. No one can be absolutely sure that all food is always 100 pst. Safe. An external evaluation of this matter will be an important contribution to further efforts for high food quality. Nor should we conclude in advance when it comes to such an evaluation. But let me finally remind you that it is actually important that there is a connection between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e404	Let me begin by clarifying the obvious misunderstanding expressed by the parliamentary leader of the Central Party: otherwise, I and the Left have not at any time expressed any uncertainty about the organisation of the Food Authority, nor have we asked questions about the stability of the Minister of Agriculture. But we have recorded that the question of viability has been raised in the debate. So this was not true. We've now had a food scandal that's been going on for almost two months. This has more and more become the character of an information scandal, as the representative on the pay side pointed out in his statement. Many children are infected, and so far it has required a child's life. Fear, uncertainty and growing wonder in an entire population have come into the cold water. Then everyone must be allowed to wonder. For us in this room it is such that our wonder and our control of the authorities is directed towards the Government and responsible state councils. It's our duty. It must be allowed to wonder, as many have done, when the representatives of the Institute of Public Health from day forward appear to be sloppy. ‘Golden meat dough’ was in a way a slogan that went on and on again. You didn't know, but you were apparently slippery. From my point of view, I felt that the Food Safety Authority tried to be something more reserved, but it appeared that it was apparently well connected. It must be allowed to wonder – it was also striking – a public health institute that was sure that the source was meaty, until a few hours had passed. Then they were sure that the source was another, but they did not know. It must be allowed to wonder. Because it's the way with food that we just have to have it, several times a day, and parents think about their kids all day. Then there's no solution: stop eating – we're going to evaluate this, and then you can start eating again when we've done it! It's not like that. You have to eat, and you have to deal with the authorities giving clear advice on how to behave. As the weeks have gone by with this scandal, in my opinion, the lack of overall political leadership and information has been striking. It is misunderstanding that this cannot be combined with the independence of supervision. With all due respect for the professionals and the search for bacteriologists: when people are insecure, it is a government's overall duty to exercise leadership, provide information and advice that people can relate to. Many people have criticised this. For example, I can. mention the well-known communication expert Nils Petter Nordskar, who wrote a few days ago in Today's Business: ‘The authorities have acted in a depressing and scandalous manner in the E. coli case.’ The newspaper wrote in a summary: ‘The handling of the E. coli case by the authorities has been messy, chaotic and unclear, believes a number of food operators. Now they require cleaning." People understand and accept information that the cause, the source, is not found. People understand when you're expressing uncertainty and that you're looking. People need security to do everything to find the cause. But people also need advice on how to handle food while waiting for advice, advice that should have a durability that lasts longer than a few hours. This is not unknown to people. All around the Norwegian community who know how primary health services handle water that is infected by many bacteria know that this is possible. Sometimes you get advice that there are so many bacteria that the water, maybe our most important food, is a danger, and that you have to boil the water until further notice. It understands people, and they act accordingly. I think that's the kind of advice that stands out, and that it's necessary to give in an uncertain situation, in the information box that we've sometimes experienced here. Perhaps we are now in the middle of a scandal that causes some of the innocence in Norwegian food supply to be gone. Maybe people now have to live with a greater risk awareness. There is also no reason to undermine the clear responsibilities. The main responsibility lies with the actors in the food chain. The authorities have an additional responsibility to view them in the cards so that laws and regulations are followed. But you also have personal responsibility for knowledge and attention at home. Although everything is right up to the kitchen, a lot of things can go wrong at home. Here we need knowledge and information. See how it has become important abroad! Let me conclude by expressing my satisfaction with the self-criticism in important areas that the Minister of Food came into his intervention today, and also the self-criticism expressed by the Brustad Government Council on behalf of the Food Authority. I guess I miss something more self-criticism from the Brustad State Council on behalf of myself and the Public Health Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e440	I first want to thank most of the people for what I think are very constructive posts in a very difficult situation for all the parties involved. As others have also said from the interlocutors, it is of course primarily serious for those who have been affected by this. As a baby mother myself, I have no problem realizing that people have been afraid and still partly so. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen said that there are weaknesses in the process. Therefore, full evaluation of the case is important. This shall be initiated by the Government. I would also like to say, in relation to part of what has been said about information, that it is quite clear that it is an important part of the evaluation that will take place. When it comes to Kielland Asmyhr's question, whether or not our food is safe enough, we do have a very safe food throughout Norway, but this case has shown us that we can't lean back and believe that everything goes by itself. It's a fight that clearly has to be fought every day, at all stages and at all levels. It is, of course, essential that legislation is followed, that the industries take it most seriously and that we have effective supervision. So the representative said wages and salaries that in this case there has been one – I think wages and salaries used the expression – extreme transparency. It illustrates how difficult this is. Most of the criticism has been that there has been too little transparency, that you have known too little, that it has taken too long, and that lists should be on the table – more than the ones that were presented. But then there's also criticism that there's too much openness. It illustrates that this has been and is very difficult, and therefore, of course, you have to go through all aspects of that matter. When it comes to who is to coordinate and who is responsible, etc., I only note that it is the previous government that has received support in Stortinget for the construction that is now. We listen and are, of course, open to recordings that relate to both system and handling when we are going to jump up the course ahead. Then to the representative Sørfonn. In terms of food security and review, the Government believes that the most important thing now is to put in place the external evaluation and see what comes out of it, with any suggestions for improvements both in system and handling, and then we get to take it from there. But there is no disagreement about the importance of food security in this context being job no. 1 for both the Minister of Agriculture and Food and me. Then we get back to which way is suitable for keeping the Storting orientated, and of course we're also going to include important and useful input that has come from this pulpit today. When it comes to the representative Sponheim, I would say that there were some crises also during the previous government, and most opposition parties gave the previous government rest when standing in the middle of difficult and important crises. I think that's a neat and good way to work. The representative of Sponheim must also know, as a former member of the government in several instances, that crises are very difficult, and then there must be a job no. 1 is to figure out the things that are at all times difficult. Then you get a critical eye on what might not have gone so well, afterwards. So something else Sponheim brought up here. In a situation where our professional authorities advised not to eat meat dough, Sponheim really believes that the responsible government council – the food minister or I – should try out the professional authorities and say something else? I think that would have been completely irresponsible, because none of us are professionals. We have to trust the professional authorities we have, and the food law is ready for a suspect. Then you're going to have to discuss afterwards the degree of slip security that many people have been involved in, but this is not a simple matter. Fortunately, we're closer to a solution. It's a serious thing that we're going to learn from. We hope to avoid this, but to the extent that similar things should arise in the future, we have to make sure that we are even better protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e461	I would also like to thank you for a good discussion in Stortinget today. Now the Minister of Health has commented on some of the individual elements that have come up, and I will not repeat it, but join in those assessments. It seems to me that the end of the debate is reason to conclude that I perceive that there is consensus on what is important, essentially, in this matter. I think that's very good, and that's a good starting point for further work. I have six points on my block in relation to that. Of course, there is no doubt that everyone agrees on the seriousness of such a matter as this, and it should almost just be lacking. We have that as a common entry into the further work. The need for an evaluation I see there is a broad consensus. It also seems that there is a broad consensus on collecting international expertise, as we have said from the Government. We haven't heard anything else about it, and that's good. Then we agree that the piece of information in practice is the most demanding thing about what has happened, and that communicating in the questions that have been raised in the debate on the E. coli case is very demanding. I think the representative on the pay side of it illustrated it well to take one of the extremes of Chernobyl, where people in particular can get an idea of security because they don't know, and the situation here, where the transparency line has been used, with the challenges it creates in an information work. I think that is really a good picture of what this matter is about. Point four: I believe that there is full agreement in this Chamber on defining food security as a key principle in both food policy and agricultural policy. That's good. Fifthly, I realize that the question of traceability, which I also spent a lot of time in my post, is something that we agree to continue working on, and we're going to start immediately. Sixthly, I also understand that there is a broad consensus on the professional access to such questions. Although you can discuss about levelling in relation to political comments and what's around it, I still see that at the bottom we have a common understanding that what's important is that it's the professional that's the foundation of the kind of work we've been through now. That, I think, is a reassuring conclusion in a demanding case that has required both time and commitment, and that has also been demanding beyond it for very many lately. We're going to take this further and make sure that it gets further worked on it, for example. based on the conclusions that I now drew.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e482	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the statements by the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the serious situation which has arisen as a result of an outbreak of disease associated with the bacterium E. coli O103 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e504	China — an increasingly alienated country — may well be a headline. When I sat down to prepare this post, it struck me how my own perception of China has evolved through life, from when I was quite small and looked at China as something big – there were dynasties and there were Marco Polo and some strange ceramics with dragon motifs and at home in the maritime town of Haugesund also some camphorists. In sum: China was exciting, far away and touched us just in the imagination. Later, I experienced China as a young person and as a student, and it was still something big – then it was the cultural revolution, and it was Mao, in some exciting, but not quite as far away as before, and something that affected us in the political debate – not least for one like me, who started with student policy. Today, the cords are still large, both at home and globally. Economic long-term growth with increasing influence on world trade and the world economy is an absolute headline. Business and trade are not the theme of my interpellation. The right has sent its own interpellation on industrial policy in the light of China’s progress to the Minister of Industry. It will come up for treatment at a later stage. Given its growing economic weight and size, of course, China also has an increasing political influence regionally and globally. It makes the country a great power. China therefore contributes more and more to setting the international agenda, thereby also affecting the premises and driving rules for the functioning of the international community. In addition to the UN Charter of Human Rights, we have a number of international agreements that regulate different situations. Not least for small countries, such driving rules are an important insurance against overtramp from larger countries. Nevertheless, it is crucial how the major powers choose to behave in the global arena. It will be normative, and it can create ring-effects. I want to take a closer look at China's international activities. Of course, regional ASEAN cooperation on its own continent is important for China. In addition, we know about the so-called Shanghai organisation, which is only a few years old. China has also invited countries like Myanmar and Iran, countries that are more familiar with their natural resources than with democracy, good governance and the practice of human rights. Not least in Africa, China’s foreign policy appears to follow the Chinese commodity trading list for Chinese industry. Some examples: Sudan and Zimbabwe are subject to international sanctions because of the massacres in Darfur and Mugabe's dictatorship, respectively. At the same time, Sudan has oil and gold, while Zimbabwe has platinum, coal and tobacco as China needs. China supports countries financially, invests in infrastructure, provides free equipment, supplies them with weapons, and thus weakens international efforts to push regimes into responsibility. It's no wonder Mugabe said on the country's day of independence last year: "We look again to the east, where the sun rises, and not longer to the west, where it sets." And we have the examples of Congo-Brazzaville, who is a major exporter of tropical timber to China across international efforts to protect the rain forest, and Angola, where many oil companies are committed to developing petroleum resources in the country. Experts, however, believe that companies must contribute to the fight against corruption in the country. However, no one is more present than China, which pays for rail, airport and other infrastructure projects in the country without any expectation of anything other than oil concessions on the base. Henning Kristoffersen, Social Anthropologist and Head of Study at the BI Business School in China, writes about China's growth and democracy in today's Business Today's March 20th this year: ‘At the end of 2005, China’s Communist Party issued its first decree on the development of democracy in China. The report entitled ‘Building political democracy in China’ concludes that the continued rule of the Communist Party is the best guarantee for the development of democracy in China. The leader of the Communist Party attributes the party's political line to the greater part of the credit for the economic growth China is now experiencing. It is concluded that it is today's political system that has made the Chinese people already benefit from a set of democratic rights.' This reminds us of former party president Deng Xiaoping's statement that democracy of the people must be built on a system in which individual interests are subordinated to collective interests. And to quote Henning Kristoffersen again: ‘Simplifiedly, while democracy in the West aims at political systems, the importance of ‘democracy’ for China’s leadership limits itself to increasing numbers of people’s space for action.’ The position of human rights in both Chinese domestic and foreign policy is problematic. As far as domestic policy is concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has good tools to shed light and seek to influence it. The MR dialogue between Norway and China is unique in many ways and allows discussion of sensitive themes for the Chinese. The context is, as is well known, increased tensions within China as a result of its rapid and impressive growth, increased city-to-country contrasts, environmental threats, unclear property and corruption with subsequent demonstrations. There is every reason to be very satisfied with the MR dialogue in Beijing over several years, although much still needs to be changed. The MR dialogue takes the intersection of law, policy and economics and provides Norway with opportunities for constructive influence. Now, however, it is not the domestic policy situation that is my concern in this interpellation. Today, I am calling for constructive influence also in relation to Chinese foreign policy and especially in Africa. Helge Rønning, professor at the Institute for Media and Communication, had an article in the Evening Post last October under the heading «Imperialisten China in Africa». From his conclusion I quote the following: ‘The main principle of Chinese policy is not to interfere with internal political conditions. This is bad news for those who want to promote democracy and human rights. As the Chinese support for Zimbabwe has shown, such principles are not a priority for Beijing. China has no difficulty in supporting dictatorial and corrupt regimes to promote its own interests. Increased Chinese influence in Africa therefore represents undisguised self-interests, and is a clear setback for the work on human rights, transparency and democracy. The question is how do those who represent these values respond to this. Failure to address the problem, having regard to the economic and trade aspects, is not a solution.» For the Right, this is an important matter. I welcome the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how Norway will meet these challenges, and hope he has suggestions on which issues the Government will prioritise in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e540	The representative of Vallersnes has raised a topical and important issue. Perhaps China's integration into international economy, politics and cultural life is the strongest expression of today's globalized world. How China will govern its development is a matter of great importance, with consequences for all. The same is true of China's international influence. Let me start by mentioning that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are now paying particular attention to strengthening the competences of China and Chinese relations, in view of the importance of China and the rapidly growing Norwegian-Chinese relations. And let me add that human rights are also a chosen field of action for the Government's foreign policy. These two areas thus coincide well. China's development will primarily be due to the choices made by China itself. China is expanding, and its influence internationally — economically and politically — is rapidly increasing. In this context, it is important that the national authorities, through legislation and by other means, facilitate sustainable and fair economic and social development, a development that extends democracy, guaranteeing fundamental human rights to the population, and respecting human dignity. From the Norwegian side, we can offer advice, information and exchange of experience in several areas. The human rights dialogue – which should be constructive, critical and address problematic issues where necessary – is one important tool in this work. But note that dialogue in a cooperative relationship is always two-way. In our relationship with China – one of our civilization sites, the world’s most populous country – we also learn a lot, we get information and networks, in economics, energy, culture, research and a number of other areas. The main purpose of our human rights dialogue with China is to help improve the human rights situation in the country and discuss matters of greater international importance. By exposing views from Norwegian environments to Chinese decision-makers, we have at the same time the opportunity to exercise influence on how China acts internationally and against third countries. We're not going to have excessive expectations of how far such an influence can go, but that it can contribute positively, there's little doubt about it. It's a good side effect of the dialogue, which we're seeing more and more the value of. Another effect is that we also receive intake in other policy areas, Norwegian-Chinese, vis-à-vis third countries and international. At the same time, a dialogue will never deprive us of the right and responsibility to address and prosecute clear violations of human rights – and we do. There is great progress in China, including political progress. But there is still much unsolved in democracy, human rights and the development of the rule of law. Take professional rights as an example. Use the death penalty as another. Only two countries have dialogue on human rights with China at political level. One of them is Norway. This gives our contact with China a special dimension. During the last working meeting that took place in Oslo in January, over 30 Norwegian and Chinese institutions and organisations attended, and it was the most comprehensive meeting in the dialogue to date. The agenda included the rights of workers, the rights of prisoners and the rights of arrest. Let me elaborate on this first theme, as an example: in the human rights dialogue, we have made corporate social responsibility and workers' rights a central theme. On the Norwegian side, many actors are involved: Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, LO, NHO, Fafo and Centres for Human Rights. The aim is to create contact surfaces between Chinese and Norwegian professional environments – contact surfaces that provide ground for trust and for concrete cooperation projects – and the basis for critical dialogue where problems can be addressed. The fact that Chinese and foreign businesses show social responsibility is an important factor in the development of China, as in Norway and other countries. The same applies in particular to the expansive and influential behaviour of Chinese companies in third countries. Many are critical to Chinese business because of its lack of respect for professional rights and insufficiently sustainable – yes not sensible – management of resources. For a number of years, the NHO and the LO have had extensive cooperation with their sister organisations in China on corporate social responsibility, and it has borne fruit. Norwegian business is now holding a course for Chinese colleagues to invest out on how to comply with these requirements. Last year, the Chinese authorities introduced social responsibility requirements as a condition for the allocation of export quotas for a sample of sectors. Chinese companies to cooperate with Western companies, such as Statoil and Kværner, know that their business practices are clearly required. It's positive. China is increasingly making important premises on the direction of globalisation. The choices made by the country have a decisive impact on the earth’s environment and climate — and on global development — politically and economically. China is the world’s largest recipient of foreign direct investment, the world’s most important factory for labour-intensive industry and one of the world’s largest exporters. At the same time, Chinese businesses invest heavily abroad, and not least in Africa, as the representative mentions. The labour standards practised in China will thus have a global impact on labour standards and division of labour. The fact that Chinese businesses at home and outside take social responsibility will determine whether to succeed in developing a fair, humane and sustainable working and business life in other parts of the world. Therefore, in contacts and cooperation with China, the area of workers’ rights and corporate social responsibility will be given increasing emphasis. Increased regional cooperation on human rights is also important. China has great influence in Asia, and we are therefore bringing the country's role throughout the region into our dialogue with the Chinese. This applies, inter alia, to: The role of China in achieving a more positive development in countries such as Burma and North Korea. Norway, together with Canada and China, organises an annual human rights symposium for Asian countries. In Norwegian foreign policy, we will be the drivers of China's active contribution to a world society anchored in the UN, based on respect for human rights, solidarity, community and fair distribution. These topics were central to the visit of the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to Norway in February this year. In the meeting with my colleague, relations in and to third countries were dominated: Iran, non-proliferation, UN reform and peace processes in different parts of the world, among others. Sudan. China’s commitment to the African continent must be viewed in particular in the light of their high need for stable energy supply. Growing Chinese involvement in Africa in recent years is one of the most marked changes in third country involvement on this continent. There is no doubt that self-interest is at the root of China's commitment, which the Chinese do not hide either. For example, approx. half of Sudan's oil to China. Therefore, it is in China’s own interest to contribute to peace and stability in the region. Our message is that good governance, anti-corruption, human rights and democracy are important elements in ensuring such stability. Although we do not always want to agree with the Chinese on what creates peace and stability, for example. in Sudan, we welcome the fact that China is playing a more active role in this area too. And we want closer cooperation. I record the debate in Norwegian media on China's role on the African continent. Some consider increasing involvement a threat, while others believe it stimulates increased economic growth for Africa. It is worth noting that China has now presented its own Africa strategy. It describes China's position in principle that the principle of state sovereignty sets strict limits to influence conditions in other countries in terms of democracy, human rights and good governance. China – in the light of its own experience – represents a policy in which trade and business cooperation are the most effective way to lift Africa out of poverty. But that also means that China has fewer barriers to close cooperation with political regimes we usually keep more distance from. China has different motives for its commitment. In various assessments, analysts have highlighted three objectives for China’s expansion: increased access to natural resources, new markets for Chinese goods and services and long-term political and economic influence. We've seen over time that China's rapid and high economic growth has led to a shortage of energy and raw materials, and that this is part of the background for the Chinese interest in Africa. China's trade with African countries has tripled only in the last five years. African workplaces are also being lost due to the increase in imports from the PRC, among others. in the textile industry. From 2003 to 2004, exports from China to South Africa increased by 88 pst. in this sector, to take one figure. This was also on the agenda when the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs was in Oslo. We agree to have closer contact between Norway and China on developments in Africa, as the embassy is already following up. From the Norwegian side, we believe that such issues that are important for Norwegian aid, good governance, human rights and democracy, are prerequisites for economic and social development. China does not share only this vision. However, I believe that we should be able to find a platform for increased Norwegian-Chinese cooperation on these issues. It also allows us to answer questions, challenge analyses and provide alternative assessments. China’s economic growth and growing importance globally require a different and much clearer and stronger searchlight on this large country than has been the norm in Norwegian foreign policy and foreign service. China’s role is full-blown in almost all foreign policy areas. This also illustrates the need to see different policy areas in context. In the context of the modernisation and reorganisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we are now implementing, inter alia: Refocus on China, Africa and human rights centrally. A main objective is to work more in projects across policy areas. Examples here are the working groups I have set up to assess how we can better meet the challenges created by globalisation and develop a comprehensive Africa strategy for Norwegian foreign and development policy. The importance of China will have an important place in the work of these groups. A new China strategy is also to be developed. It may be appropriate to cooperate more closely with China in the resolution of various conflicts and in peace processes, where we both seek to contribute to stability, security and development. Dialogue and cooperation on these and other issues will be pursued further. This applies, inter alia, to: through my own and the Minister for Development's planned visit to China this year and during the Norwegian-Chinese Round Table on Human Rights in Beijing in June. I look forward to an exchange of information and opinions on these issues here in this Chamber, and I would therefore like to thank the representative Vallersnes once again for addressing such a topical and fundamentally important foreign policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e605	I thank the Foreign Minister for the introduction, and notice that China is a field of activity in the U.D. I fully understand that. I am also pleased to stress that dialogue is two-way communication. It fits very well with my opinion that even though you have very different views and stand steep against each other on a number of things, there is always a lot to learn – mutually – and we certainly do. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated earlier in this Chamber that Norway is not a small country. He then argued that Norway has much greater foreign policy and economic influence than the population was supposed to. I hope he's right, as today's challenges will require all the influence that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can mobilise. It's about combining the world's richest countries, China, and the world's second largest continent, Africa, with one of the most important things we have in our foreign policy: human rights, democracy, good governance and conflict resolution. Africa's path to development can only go through strengthened democracy, better governance, less corruption, fewer wars and conflicts and equivalent participation in global trade. All of this is an important objective of Norwegian policy towards Africa, and such a policy has been pursued by a number of governments with support from the United Kingdom. At the same time, we need to be aware of the history. Africa's enormous natural resources and its appetite for other countries have caused the continent much suffering for centuries. The resources are still there, the appetite is rapidly growing all over the world. The danger of conflict between economics and human rights, to put it slightly simplified, is there every single day. Control and income from own natural resources will be a key prerequisite for further good development in Africa. In ten years' time, Africa could be as important in the global oil market as the Middle East. This concerns Norway as an energy nation with interests vis-à-vis African oil-producing countries, but also which significantly provides aid, loans and debt to poor African countries. The Bondevik II government increased assistance specifically to poor countries in Africa, while making clear demands on the governance and transparency of beneficiary countries, as well as improving the follow-up and evaluation of target achievement. If the same countries meet our conditions in contact with us, but completely different conditions when they are in contact with other cooperating countries, the situation is quite unsustainable. It raises the question of which multilateral forums or arenas we have to intervene with China on the exercise of human rights and good governance vis-à-vis third countries. I hope the Foreign Minister can make this more concrete. It is particularly interesting to hear what opportunities the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government see for the new UN Human Rights Council. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it can be used for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e616	I have quite rightly stated that it is not right to call Norway a small country. Whether we're going to measure ourselves with China in all contexts, I'm going to be a little reluctant. But at least we're not going to go back to have principled views and use the channels we have. I believe that Vallersnes’ contributions were now a good clarification of the challenges we face. There are some of the reasons that have led me to now want to focus on Norwegian foreign policy in Africa, because I believe that the more one-sided aid focus we have had on Africa, which is still going to be an important professional approach, may lead to a smaller perspective on these issues that the representative Vallersnes addresses. Norway's ambassador to Mozambique mentioned to me how the development of Chinese interests in this country now affects how the country evolves differently from what we have normally had on our radar in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then we need a framework to understand it. The major power confrontation in Africa, which was also about resources, has now been replaced by a new search for resources in Africa. Vallersnes has given a good deal of examples. The chronicle of Helge Rønning, which I also read in its time, has shown and exemplified it in other ways. It is true that there can be a kind of confrontation between different perspectives in terms of social development, human rights, good governance, which some countries place on, while other countries that come to African countries do not place emphasis on it, thereby exempting some governance from the pressure they should be under to comply with international, globally recognised standards. Norway has three main tracks here, I believe. One is our bilateral relationship, which should be professionalised in a foreign policy direction to also be able to be our for these dimensions, both in our analysis and in the way we have dialogue with the African authorities, where we have a great deal of representation. The second is the support we give to African own bodies that want to contribute to multilateral development and universal principles relating to human rights, the UN Conventions on Political and Social Rights. I think, in the first place, of the role that AU, the African Union, can have, and the efforts Africa has to achieve cooperation within the economy, within the so-called NEPAD initiative. Norway has to position itself in a way that makes it difficult for us to be present in those countries that are tone-indicating in this context. So, as the representative says, it's the UN track. It's important to strengthen the universal standards that make them strong in the meeting with the pressure of resource-spent land from the outside, when they assert their influence. It is about the UN, the World Bank, and I also have great faith that the UN Human Rights Agency that is now set up – although not perfect, but nevertheless a very important step on the road – can be an important institution, so that you also have trust and legitimacy, both in Africa and in a country like China, so that your work is well respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e625	The evolution and economic growth now experienced by China are definitely lacking historical similarity. This growth is unevenly distributed both among people and between geographical areas, and in turn it leads to social tensions between cities and countries. It was not without reason that the latest press-based congress of the People's Party just stressed the importance of balancing differences between cities and communities in the future, because it is high time that the entire Chinese community got to share in this growth that China is experiencing. In the middle of the enormous progress, there is a gross violation of human rights. Religious and ethnic minorities and political opposition all have a difficult and often dangerous existence in China. Homophili, alcohol, sex and humor are some of what are considered to be dangerous ideologies, and, unfortunately, on the orders of the authorities censored by Google and Microsoft in China. Last year, 300 billion SMS messages were sent in China, and the authorities now want to introduce censorship of SMS just the way they have done on websites and search engines. Freedom of expression and information was shattered. Another example of that is an editor who was demolished after pointing out a translation error on the Chinese Communist Party website. He and the journalist who were dismissed after delivering an article saying that 30 families have to live in the woods because they have not been paid since 2002, are examples that add up to the range of abuses. On February 28 the police searched hotels in Beijing and surrounded 400 people who were in town to demonstrate against the Congress. Local activists have played a very important role in elucidating rural problems in relation to cities, but they are constantly at risk of being abused such as imprisonment, torture and abuse. Norway, as we are also in relation to other countries, must be tough in its demands that Chinese authorities maintain the right to freedom of expression, a right enshrined in international law. In addition, we must require that activists are free to engage in legal activities without fear of abuse. It is said that the so-called Third World is serving on globalisation. The argument is precisely based on the global economic growth of China and, among other things, China. India is absolutely central. But usually it is only mentioned in parentheses that an increasingly large part of the so-called third world is becoming the fourth world, and that Africa in particular south of the Sahara is becoming increasingly marginalized. China and India are creating a new economic centre in the east. But it means far from that the so-called poor Third World automatically serves on it. Some countries often come in a blunder. For the tens of thousands of jobs threatened in the textile industry in Mauritius and Zimbabwe, and for the jobs laid down in Lesotho and Tanzania, it is linked to US subsidies and China’s textile industry. We now see that the Chinese in their expansion in Africa are concentrated on three things: access to natural resources, creating a market for goods and services and in the long term gaining political influence and economic control. Paradoxically, what is perhaps China's foremost advantage in Africa is that the increased influence does not bring with it pressure on the African leaders to follow human rights, build democracy and fight against corruption. I agree with Mr Vallersnes that this is bad news for all those who want to promote democracy and human rights in Africa, and that how we who fight for these values respond to this is crucial. As I said, the rest of the world cannot fail to address the problem on the grounds that it is economics and trade. The Foreign Minister said that a dialogue should never deprive us of the right and responsibility to take up and prosecute violations of human rights. I will agree with that, and I would like to continue to work on the political clarity of the Norwegian side in relation to China's domestic and foreign policy behaviour, although Norwegian economic interests are also strongly affected by China's growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e648	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the representative, Vallersnes, who has today focused on an important issue, a issue that is likely to become even more important in the years to come. I believe that China's lack of focus on good governance, human rights and democracy in third countries largely reflects its domestic policy priorities, or lack of them. The formidable economic growth we have seen in the country has so far not led to any significant democratization process. In the immediate future, there is little evidence that civil society groups will come up with demands for increased democratic rights. As long as political leadership can legitimise its monopoly of power through continued growth, society does not seem to require political reforms either. Should economic growth, however, stop, or should China experience an economic crisis, the picture may change dramatically. However, there is little evidence that such a thing will happen in the near future. To keep China stable and harmonious throughout history has been the overall goal of the Chinese state. Economic growth has brought about major changes in Chinese society. Groups that do not experience the same economic growth or do not get better in their standard of living can protest against the wrong they feel. In particular, abuse of power as corruption and bribery will lead to increased dissatisfaction if not political leadership knocks on such activities. However, there is little evidence that political leadership will open up more democracy or allow elections at a higher administrative level than village elections. Nor does it seem that fractions within the Communist Party support political reforms in a democratic direction. The overall objective seems to be further economic growth. So far, political leadership has suppressed any form of protest movement and demonstration of political reforms, human rights and democracy. We remember all the demonstrations in the place of Heavenly Peace and how this worked out. We are constantly reading about the poor treatment of Falun Gong by the authorities, for example. We also see the attitude of the Chinese authorities towards the political development of Taiwan, which is still seen as part of China. I myself was an election observer in Taipei in March 2000, when Chen Shui-bian was elected president for the first time. The Chinese response to the elections was to send bombers to Taiwan. Fortunately, the planes turned around before they got that far, but this was a clear demonstration of power that they didn't like what happened. On the basis of this, I believe that the prospects for a change in the general attitude of the Chinese authorities towards good governance, human rights and democracy are unfortunately not very good. Lack of prioritisation in Chinese foreign policy is therefore, I think, a reflection of the total absence of these positions in domestic policy. As the interpellant quite rightly claims, China's economic growth and trade will give it considerable foreign policy influence, and such a situation can be exploited positively, if you like. I am largely satisfied with the feedback from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I wish him every success in putting good governance, human rights and democracy on the agenda in his talks with the Chinese authorities. I think it will be a challenge, and I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we must not have excessive expectations of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e665	I listened with great interest both to the interpellant's posts and to the foreign minister's posts. As the Foreign Minister said, and as others have also said, it is very important that we both develop a China strategy and acquire more knowledge of China's role in the world. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out quite correctly that the prerequisite for peace and development is a good set of governance, human rights and democracy, and I, on a sea level, share both the important points and concerns of the inter-pellant and Anette Trettebergstien on the serious violations of human rights in China. Both the Christian People's Party and the SV organised seminars last time on precisely the gross violations of human rights in China. Before I go on, I want to put the search light on what we do. We are good in the dialogue, but it is also a point that the West is increasingly pulling out with bullets and the powder and is running preventive attacks, for example. in Iraq. Nor is Norway’s role as a major force in arms exports unproblematic. Compared to the population, Norway is the largest arms exporter in the world. It is not certain that it will lead to peace and development all over the world. It is necessary, in the SV's view, to take a closer look at this, as well as on ethical guidelines for investments made by Norwegian companies in countries with large resources. I want to address China's role in international society, and what goes beyond trade. China has increasingly played an active role in effectively blocking independent UN investigations into the situation in third countries. When China opposes investigations by the United Nations, it is noted that this is part of the internal relations of the countries, which were also the subject of the inter-pellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Human Rights Organisation Human Rights Watch, in its 2005 Annual Report, points out that China, as one of several UN Security Council countries, was opposed to referring the situation in the Darfur region of Sudan to the International Criminal Court. Finally, China ended up abstaining from voting rather than using its veto right. According to Human Rights Watch, China should also have used its position in the Security Council to impede the identification of individuals responsible for the sale of weapons to the conflicting groups in the Darfur region. It is important, as everyone has said, that the Norwegian authorities use all the opportunities for dialogue to address the human rights situation in China, both in terms of Chinese conditions and in terms of China as part of the international community. I feel quite confident, after the Foreign Minister's statement in this respect, that Norway is doing the same. China has a heavy role as one of the permanent members of the UN Security Council, and it requires respect for the principles of the UN, both in terms of human rights and other principles. An area in which Norwegian authorities have a role to play is in the important role of China’s seas in blocking the Security Council from addressing the systematic human rights violations that the Burmese military government is responsible for. China is Burma's largest investor and contributor to both financial and military assistance. China has been a member of the now outgoing Commission on Human Rights, which has been the United Nations Commission to assess violations of human rights in annual meetings and has received reports from the UN Special Rapporteurs responsible for various areas. China, together with countries such as Zimbabwe, Sudan, Cuba and Saudi Arabia, has contributed to the Commission's gradually gaining a very critical role because the countries that have been sitting there have been among those who are grossly violating human rights. When the UN is given a new Human Rights Council, Norway must contribute through dialogue to influence countries such as China to deal with the conventions it has ratified, while helping to encourage the ratification and implementation of other conventions in national law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e682	The Christian People's Party will also give tribute to the representative Vallersnes for the theme he has raised. Now it's not that the Christian People's Party has got a new foreign-political spokesperson, just so it's said initially. I will limit myself to a few comments related to what I may feel more is the core of the report by the representative of Vallersnes: how can Norway influence China to address the situation in third countries, not least in terms of good governance? That's a challenge for ourselves, too. In the committee I sit, the Financial Committee, we are responsible for a pension fund, the State pension fund – Foreign, which has moved out of a number of companies. At the same time, we have relations with the same companies in other defence policy contexts. It also shows that this is not only a dilemma that is something for China to work with, but also a dilemma that concerns ourselves in some contexts. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed that China has a high priority in the ministry's work, and that human rights have an equally high priority. And the sum of the two relationships was supposed to indicate that Norway is active in the area that the interpellant addresses. What I would like to hear more about from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, if possible, is the following: If we imagine a situation in which a number of countries, perhaps especially in Africa, exchange trading partners who are engaged in good governance, human rights, etc., with other countries – perhaps with China, mentioned by the interpellant – for purely domestic policy reasons, what mechanisms do Norway have as a nation to influence such developments? I think the inter-pellant was concerned that they may not be so many, that we are faced with pure power policy in many contexts, where political, of course, goes hand in hand with what is economically opportunistic for each country. But to the extent that there are opportunities, I am interested in hearing how we can develop them further. It was mentioned a part from the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his reply, but how strong the possibilities are, I felt hanging something in the air. What can we expect from China, which, after all, is a country where torture, not least during police interrogations – despite the prohibition of law against it – is going on in a large way, how many are imprisoned without judgment, where there is death penalty, and where there is persecution of a number of minorities? How can we influence such a country to demand something from third countries, when there is absolutely such a need to sweep at its own door? I guess from the Christian People's Party, we don't get to say that one thing is the two-way dialogue we can have with countries, but just as important is the work we have in the international forums. Both the inter-pellant and the Ågot Valle were involved in the new arrangements that the United Nations is now establishing in this context. Hopefully, it can give us an opportunity to influence positive developments in third countries, where the directly involved trading partners can play a role in a positive, indirect way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e697	Thank you to the representative, Vallersnes, for raising an important topic. In Norway’s international commitment and in dialogue with other authorities, the fight for human rights and democratic principles must be of the highest priority. Democratic principles are fundamental to guaranteeing individual freedom and dignity and to creating a fair distribution and sustainable economic development. The left considers that Norway has to fight for increased attention to human rights violations. The death penalty cannot be accepted, either in war or in peace. About 90 countries, including China, still use the death penalty. More than 3,400 executions took place in China in 2004, according to Amnesty figures. China's most famous prisoner of conscience and human rights activist, Wei Jinghang, claims that the number is close to 10,000. Wei Jingsheng spent 18 years in prison, ten of which in isolates, and after his release in 1997, he continues to travel around China’s cooperating country with clear demands. His main objection is that there is no requirement. China is a good trading partner, and the human rights are coming in second row, he said when he was visiting here at the Stortinge last autumn. Left expects the government to be clear that Norway is following Weis clear advice that we should not accept torture and death penalty or persecution of religious or political groups, as is the case in China. Wei Jinghang is also very concerned about China's treatment of Taiwan, and he has reason to be. We must communicate clearly that even Chinese authorities must respect democratic elections, whether they like the outcome of the elections or not. In the event of serious violations of human rights, Norwegian authorities should take the lead in developing forms of sanctions which do not affect the general population but which are directed directly at the authoritarian regime. Humanitarian aid should be exempted from penalties. Freedom of expression is perhaps the most fundamental of human rights and a crucial prerequisite for democracy. Norway must therefore respond clearly to restrictions on freedom of expression in China, in particular abuses against journalists, writers and human rights activists. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister's response to the interpellant so clearly emphasises dialogue, good governance and human rights in interaction with China and the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e712	It is an interesting, highly topical and forward-looking theme that the interpellant has put on the agenda: China's expansionary foreign policy, which must be seen not only in the context of the desire for political influence but also in relation to access to resources, primarily energy. We see an increasingly strong and self-confident China growing through globalisation, with enormous economic growth that has perhaps also contributed to preventing excessive unemployment – despite the fact that 15 to 18 million new young people are entering the Chinese labour market each year. Can we really imagine that? China is characterized by contrasts. On the one hand, there is a deserting in northern China, where the authorities have launched a gigantic program of building canals northwards to bring water to farmers and their soils. It is claimed that completing the project will take 25 years. At the same time, it is a huge flight from rural areas. Calculations show that in 15 years, new 200 million people will leave the planet they're trying to live on to try their luck in the cities of China. On the other hand, China is the country next to the United States with the largest number of Internet users in the world, with over 100 million. And the number is increasing. Here, there are contrasts. The human rights question is many others who have affected, so I'm not going to deal with it again. The biggest ghost for Chinese authorities is the lack of energy. Economic growth is likely to stop if the energy supply cannot be guaranteed. Oil imports from China increased from 8 million tonnes in 1993 to 110 million tonnes in 2001. Coal production is the largest in the world and leads to enormous pollution. China’s expansionary foreign policy, especially its involvement in several African countries, must be viewed in the light of their need for stable energy supply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned inter alia: that about half of Sudan's oil is currently exported to China. So it's also in China's interest to have a positive development on the African continent. China concentrates, as it was said, on trade and business cooperation and so-called non-interference in internal affairs. But this also gives the country long-term political power in Africa. Therefore, it is interesting to look at the possibility of closer cooperation with China on peace processes and conflict resolution in a number of congested areas in Africa – not only in Sudan but also in West Africa. The Foreign Minister’s statement of 8 February addressed a new Norwegian policy towards Africa. It is time for a new Norwegian policy towards Africa. It's time to think new and strategically about attitudes to the whole continent. Norway needs a renewed African policy that can see development policy, conflict resolution and foreign policy in a context. It is important to seek strategic alliances also with African countries, seek foreign policy cooperation with African countries and institutions on both African and other international issues relating to oil, the WTO, conflict resolution, etc. Oil for the development programme is now an important part of our development policy, ensuring that oil extraction also contributes to the prosperity and human rights of the entire population, not just to a small elite. This is where our tracks intersect China's. There will be a basis for cooperation with China to contribute to a positive development in Africa. This can be demanding. I see that some of this is in the interpellant's intrusion angle: trying through dialogue with China to influence them to pursue a human rights-friendly policy, among other things. African countries. However, China’s rapidly growing importance as a global player is not limited to Africa and will be a major challenge in international policies and for international organisations such as the United Nations, NATO and others in the years to come. It includes issues such as good governance and human rights in countries in which China engages.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e745	I would like to thank all the participants in the debate for their contributions. It's obviously a very topical topic, and I have great faith that this is a theme that we're going to meet again, and with increasing strength, because it's growing closer and closer to us. I noticed with interest the Foreign Minister’s emphasis on seeing development policy and foreign policy more in the context – perhaps also conflict resolution. This is a topic we've been through several times in recent years. There are obviously some common issues, or intersections, between these policy areas where work is strengthened if better coordination is improved. Then human rights and good governance are absolutely central. So it's about balancing this against what we can call the diversity of others, and having respect for the other party in a dialogue. As one was about earlier in the word change: there's always something to learn both ways. In such a process, it is all the more important to become even more conscious than we have been to now, on what are the core elements when we talk about good governance and human rights. We know something about what the citizens themselves think about this in some of the countries we are occupied with. We have a similar issue in Arab countries, and there are large UNDP reports on the subject. People say throughout that they certainly want a democratic system, but it is enough of the citizens that it is most directed towards the security of the individual, i.e. human rights and freedoms, and that they want representative and responsible political leadership and effective anti-corruption work. Then you have the greater respect that there can be local designs, local colorants, as to how to design institutions around the democratic structure. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs saw three channels of influence. It is the bilateral vis-à-vis China, which can give a foreign policy dimension. It's the relationship with African forums like AU and NEPAD – and I would like to say in particular that if in this context you can get relevant criteria into the African Peer Review Mechanism, it's a concrete tool. And it is the UN and, among other things, the United Nations. the hopes that you can have for the new MR Board. The question then is whether the Government is prepared to use this new tool, this new Council, and thereby contribute to shaping its practices. In all these three areas of action, I look forward to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' feedback on this in future presentations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e756	Let me also thank the representative, Mr Vallersnes, for this important debate, of which I have had great pleasure, and many good points of view. I would first like to make it clear to everyone who has been involved in their speeches, and there is a broad consensus in this Chamber: Norway shall not and cannot accept violations of human rights, the death penalty, violations of internationally recognised principles of governance and violations of political and social rights. We need to be clear about that in every context, and we need to have a strategy for how we can make that happen. Total lack of dialogue and commitment, about which we have had discussions in this room in the past, is hardly a good strategy to get along the long way. Let me also come to the conclusion that we in the MR Council will, in our opinion, have more opportunity to address these questions and make connections to other parts of the UN work. In our MR dialogue with China, which can be a reflection of what we address in global contexts, we are engaged in religious freedom, freedom of expression and political and social rights differently. So I would say that the idea that African societies and the democracies of African countries can take over the Chinese way of governing society, I have as little faith as that the Soviet model was good for African societies in the time when the Soviet Union was an active player on the African continent. I don't think we should have a Western perspective on how African countries evolve. What we see in the countries that are now developing in Africa is that they are developing democracy in the pact with African traditions and based on internationally recognised universal values enshrined in UN documents and declarations of principle. And that's what we have to support. Here I believe that the representative Marit Nybakk pointed to the roads that Norway has. Working with China and other countries that are important for peace and reconciliation processes in Africa, there is no alternative to working with reality. And China is a reality in Africa, and we have to use the channels we have. Then we must work actively towards African countries. I want to end with what I said in my first post, and as many have been involved here: it demands innovation in Norwegian foreign policy, because the African image becomes more complex – from being divided into the logic of the Cold War, from being heavy on aid, to now having to deal with a more complex foreign policy agenda, where China is a new element, with both challenges and opportunities that we should be active in our foreign policy to exploit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e767	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e785	The initiative that I have taken through this interpellation is based on something as good in Norwegian policy as gathering across all the dividing lines to lift together. That's how the inner east bet was made. It was established in an agreement between a civil council in Oslo and Kjell Opseth as the Labour Party Council before the 1997 elections. Later, the entire inner East bet has been continued with changing governments – first the Bondevik I government, then the Stoltenberg government, then the Bondevik II government, and it has continued. The initiative has been based on the fact that in a big city like Oslo, there are sometimes challenges that are so extensive that, in addition to what happens through municipal responsibility, and in addition to what happens through state responsibility, for example. an intelligent and wise labour market policy must have the will to raise something in particular. The inner east bet is an expression of something as good in Norwegian politics and political tradition as splinter and hard work, and that one tries to make one another not less, but a little bigger. It has been built on the simple but wise assumption that those who hold the local, often know where the shoe prints – and they find out good measures. I myself have met and seen the inner East measures as Oslo citizens, as an urban government representative, as a city council representative, and as a city councillor, both in the form of physical rehabilitation, and also in the form of environmental workers and adults in schools. I've seen it at Sandaker high school in Oslo, on the riverbank, on Lakkegata and many different places. I have seen how this has made a difference in everyday life, where wise measures, carried out by people who do their normal job, have seemed strengthening and good. Therefore, I would say that even if we can't say in any way that we're done with the development of a big city – because it's never going to happen as long as life lives and the city evolves, it's dynamics in it – and even if we're not done with integration, positive results have been achieved with the inner east bet. Then it has also been so that in parallel with this, there has been a debate that I consider to be unprecedentedly positive. It's the debate on getting parallel thinking, but with some other challenges for the Groruddalen in Oslo – again a very constructive and correct thinking, which I know is actively working on. In this situation, in this interpellation, I have found reason to direct the search for Oslo south, more specifically the town of Søndre Nordstrand. It has some tangible and practical features that may be a reason to remember first. First of all, Søndre Nordstrand is one of the urban areas in Oslo that has had the largest population growth in the last ten years. It's also Oslo's youngest city. It is the urban area that has the highest minority language share – over 40 pst. – in Oslo, where the main weight comes from non-Western countries. At the same time, it's a city with a lot of congestion. It is a level of education lower than the average for Oslo, and there is considerable unemployment. As a citizen in Oslo, and in various roles as a citizen, both as an elected citizen, who elected a citizen and a city government representative, who elected a citizen and a city council representative, and who elected a citizen by having the trust of being a government council for all Norwegian citizens, I have experienced how firesselves in Søndre Nordstrand have worked actively to create good environments. But I have also experienced the tragedies, as everyone else has experienced when terrible things have happened among young people, with killings. What has at the same time sparked hope, commitment and light in me is how people can create good actions in the form of actions in the community that are OK, where young people can meet on the same footing, and where they, for example, can. can take it out in various sports, some of them completely alien to me with my Norwegian upbringing, but still insane eel. I've seen how you've been using smart adult contacts in a school environment that should be commended to bet enormously well in this big city, but who probably have to make sure that you're almost never subject to national reflection and debate, and neither gets praise nor challenge. It's in that situation that I see all the measures that have traveled here. Once I've chosen the form of the interpellation, it's careful. I have chosen the form of interpellation to have a dialogue with the Government; I am a solution-oriented politician, and I want to see that you can get solutions. If I were to be much more acute, I would have chosen a so-called Document No. Eight proposals. I have not chosen to do so. I respect a Council of States in a budgetary process. But I also know that when Oslo City Council discussed its budget for the current year, a proposal from those who submitted the budget, namely the City Council parties Right and the Advance Party, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, was unanimously adopted on the City Council. The proposal was that the City Council should have a good dialogue with the Government to find out about a bet also in the south of Oslo, in line with the thoughts that I have now presented and outlined. I'm not going to go into numbers, I'm not going to go into numbers, but I'm going to illustrate what I see as reasonable if I'm going to use approx. One billion in the inner east. What I want to fight for, but what it doesn't quite have to agree on, is go for a billion and a half over ten years in the Grorud Valley. $50 million a day. for ten years on Søndre Nordstrand will mean an important difference – i.e. half from the state and municipality, 25 million from each. It's important money for those who live there. I want to get involved in the end of my interview that we live in a big city like Oslo, which is a complex and beautiful city, with diverse culture, and with the largest minority language feature in Norway – a city that has often refused to see people in a crowd. We had a rather sharp debate in this city in its time on a so-called immigration account. It was a solid majority who rejected it. We have also had debates in Oslo that show that it has been possible to create dialogues, for example. between the majority population and the minority population. Not least in recent months in the context of the debate on the Muhammad caricatures, we have seen that it has been possible to create dialogue platforms. So I like to think that Norway is the best when we act real, no matter what our name is, where we live, and what we look like. Being real is that you have a fair chance when you're looking for a job. The real thing is that in a growing-up phase, children and young people get the best opportunity to have a good time, and that they get the best chance to have a good time in school. On this basis, I have formed the interpellation of the Government with the Minister of Inclusion, because I think it is the right Council of State with the right title. The inclusion includes all of us, no matter who we are, and what we are. We're doing the same thing. We're not taking any special advantage, but we're being taken seriously no matter who we are. I have chosen to ask the question whether the Council of State on behalf of the Government is open to engage in a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo, based on the idea that I have outlined in this interview, which is based on the excellent assessments and practical results that we have seen in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e811	Let me start by saying that I'm happy for this interpellation. I'm glad that I'm often allowed to discuss integration and inclusion issues in the Storting, because they're so important. I also like the tone of the post from Dørum. I will reply as follows: The government will pursue an offensive policy for our cities to promote and develop the advantages, qualities and opportunities of cities. Oslo has been a ‘shared’ city for a hundred years, and some areas face living and integration challenges. One area of great challenges is the Groruddalen, another is Søndre Nordstrand. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has announced that it will: ‘implement measures for metropolitan areas facing specific challenges, such as the Groruddalen’. We will discuss in more detail how the State, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, can contribute to sustainable development in the Groruddalen, but the Government is also open to discuss other challenges that Oslo has. The Capital Communication presented by the Government during the autumn will address the specific living and inclusion challenges facing some parts of the capital. Whole area policy in the city is a municipal responsibility, but state instruments are necessary contributions to address the challenges created by the social divisions between parts of the city. The state has, as the inter-pellant also had in the past, had such a territorial effort through the Oslo action programme for the inner east, and is now discussing with the Municipality of Oslo a common plan to improve the environment and living conditions in the Groruddalen. Another area where, from the government's point of view, it may be relevant to go in with measures is Søndre Nordstrand, and it may be relevant for further work in Oslo's inner east. From the Government’s side, the focus will be on housing and child care measures. The Capital Communication will address questions related to the inclusion of people with a migrant background in working and social life. Oslo has challenged the Government to cooperate on what they call diversity policy, and the Capital Communication will draw lines for such cooperation. In line with the Soria Moria declaration, the government has chosen to give priority to cooperation on the Groruddalen in the first place. This is due, inter alia, to: that the Groruddalen faces a number of environmental challenges in many areas, related to transport, housing and social conditions. Although the government has not established its own action programme for the city of Søndre Nordstrand in Oslo, it does not mean that as the government council responsible for work and integration I do not see the special challenges that this district has. However, I would like to point out that it is primarily the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo to provide a good municipal service to residents in Søndre Nordstrand district. However, I am prepared to use the opportunities under my department's responsibility and authority to cooperate with the Municipality of Oslo on the challenges of integration and work in particular. More active use of labour market measures is an important keyword here. Søndre Nordstrand has also received funding for the ‘New Chance’ programme, which will help transfer social assistance beneficiaries to active work. The new management of labour and welfare, NAV, where Aetat, the social security system and social services are being brought together in each municipality, provides a house of opportunity, an organisational framework for coordinating and targeting the provision of services to users. At the same time, we must look at the instruments. The government is fully reviewing legislation, social benefits, measures and services to support the overall instrument's objectives of faster transition to work, help for self-help, social protection and inclusion of people with labour market problems. As one of the measures in the welfare management toolbox, the Government will introduce a right to welfare contracts. The purpose of welfare contracts is for individuals to be able to improve their working, self-driving and good living conditions in the short or longer term through active participation in different measures. Søndre Nordstrand is the largest part of Oslo and 44 pst. in the 0-17 age group, non-Western background. The government aims to establish free core time in kindergartens in areas with many minority language children and to provide more resources to schools with more than 25 pst. minority language. When the neighborhood has school circuits up to 90 pst. minority language, such measures will be of great importance. The government will also present a separate action plan on poverty and an action plan on the inclusion of the immigrant population. Both of these action plans will contain measures that will benefit the Søndre Nordstrand district. In conclusion, I would also mention that for the current year the government has set aside 40 million. kr to a grant scheme for children’s and young people’s actions in larger urban communities. The goal is to improve growth and living conditions. The funds are used for actions and projects targeting children and young people with special needs, as well as vulnerable youth groups and the environment. Priority is given to work and efforts to promote integration. Around half of the funds go to youth action, while the other half goes to tackling poverty among children, young people and families. 23 cities and seven towns in Oslo are covered by the scheme, and Søndre Nordstrand is one of these districts. In summary, I would like to say that I appreciate this initiative from the representative of Dørum. The government is prepared to enter into a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to continue working with, if possible, more systematic cooperation on the challenges facing Søndre Nordstrand, in the same way that we have previously been positive to a similar initiative in the inner east of Oslo, and in the same way that we are now actively engaged in dialogue on the challenges in the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e846	There is almost a kind of political line from a civil council that talks to a Labour Party government in 1997 to a civil council that talks to a Labour Party government in 2006, because it is an expression that in some areas solutions can be found. I am pleased that the Council of State in its answer is individual-oriented. Some of the things that have bothered me, and I would like to say it right out of the Great Britain's pulpit, is an attempt to sometimes – at least mediatically – draw a picture of parts of Oslo as a kind of ghetto. It would be an incredibly negative stigmatisation. Anyone who knows good environmental action in Oslo, whether it's in Oslo west, in the interior of Oslo, in the different parts of Groruddalen or in Oslo south knows that the surrounding environment is alive and good, and it's when you treat people that way that you also get good results. So I'm very happy that the Council of State kept away from all such descriptions and concepts. I think it's positive and promising. It's when individuals have rights and duties, while we have the insight and the understanding that we can start with a little different ballast in life, that we find the solutions. I am very pleased that the Council of State states that although he prioritizes to get delivered and get work started with the Groruddalen – in which I fully agree with him – he is also open to review the initiative on Søndre Nordstrand. I perceive that he does, through the means with which he himself sits – which I believe is the longest he can go without having a broad government treatment. But at the same time, he is prepared to accept the challenge posed by the decisions of the City Council of Oslo in relation to the budget for the current year. I see that as positive and promising. I have some brief comments on that. I am personally convinced that it is important to have free resources that people can use locally. I think central politicians can often be wise – we as central politicians can even give us quite a lot of wisdom too – but I think the wisdom that people have locally is significant. There is no doubt that local groups, organisations and city councils have good experience in what is beneficial. I think that applies to both the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand. I think it's important to find some content on this, so that just those who are local, and who know where the shoe prints, can get in. It coincides as well with the areas spoken about by the Council of State — wise action in the living environment and actions for children and young people in a growing-up situation. I would like to stress that the Left will work towards the goal of finding money not only for the Groruddalen action programme, but also for Søndre Nordstrand, both in the Oslo Municipality budget for 2007 and in the State budget for 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e861	I don't have much to add in relation to the answer I gave – just by myself agreeing with Dørum's summary of what I said. We've understood each other, and that's an advantage to go on. I think Dørum has a very good point in that it's important, when we come up with different bets in municipalities and cities, that we try to channel part of the money as free money, so that there is a basis for a local initiative. Here, I believe that sometimes there are some conflicts of interest, in the sense that government authorities need to channel funds in certain directions. I think it's possible to combine that, in the sense that you can allocate funds to, for example. local environmental measures targeting children and young people. Well, you lock the money within that area, but you should go a long way in letting the districts – in this case the district – determine how that frame can be disposed of in the best possible way. Then I think you can combine the need to have some government governance of the bet with local knowledge and wise local people. Nor do I think we disagree very much in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e868	It's an important question the interpellant addresses. The district Søndre Nordstrand in Oslo is relatively new. It was long the metropolitan part of Oslo that had the strongest growth in the population. It is characterized by having the largest migration tip in Oslo – and it is increasing. The main weight of the immigrant population comes from non-Western countries. The city has also distinguished itself by having the largest number and the largest number of children and young people and the lowest number and the lowest number of older people. After all, poor urban economy and poor urban economy also have very bad effects. This results in cuts in the appropriations for kindergartens, leisure clubs, cultural services – so the appropriations for the non-statutory tasks are cut first. That is why it is an important question we are discussing today. As the Council of State says, it is important to see such a commitment in the context of the poverty message, the action plan for increased integration and the capital message. Having said that, I would also like to point out the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo on such questions. The municipality should find projects and thus release funds from the State. The Right Party and the Progress Party, which governs the municipality, have now led to a naive integration policy. It's blue-eyed to think that problems disappear if you close your eyes and just refer to the individual's own responsibility for being integrated. You have to take the responsibility you have, not just push it over to the state. Bad housing policies, poverty policies and, in particular, health policies in Oslo have been extremely poor in recent years. And that's also going to give us results. In Oslo, the exhibition window of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, the social problems flourish – without the responsibility of those responsible. The city is more divided by social status than possibly ever. Sdr Nordstrand is likely to be the first district to pass a 50 pst share. by the population with a foreign background. At the same time, it is important not only to focus on problems that may result, although they may be large enough. We also have to look at the possibilities involved. We need to get away from a debate on integration and immigration that is just about spending on a budget. You have to start thinking, how do we accept new people? How do we ensure that they are best trained in how we feel in Norway and in our language? How do we start to view immigrants as a resource? How do we make sure that all the North can live together as equivalent inhabitants? There must be questions that we at Stortinget, the municipalities and every citizen must start to decide. It's only when everyone can get a job they like, that they get a more worthwhile life and a more secure economy. It's only when people get a good economy that they can live wherever they want, and not by social status. It's only when we get a good mix of all cultures and different ethnic backgrounds – and not a divided city – that we're on the right track. And it's only when you don't think about whether it's a dark skin or a white one sitting next to one on the bus that we've got a successful integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e883	The representative Dørum is to be commended for travelling this interpellation here in Stortinget today. For a long time, the Progress Party has argued that the next years' bet on the four districts of Groruddalen must also include an increased bet on the town of Søndre Nordstrand. Despite the fact that all the media, and not least the evening number of the post, for which we have a representative here in the Chamber, have deliberately lost the alternative budget of the Progress Party in this area, I would like to remind the representative of Mr Dørum and other representatives that the Progress Party has included 25 million. kr for the current year until the above bet. Unlike the previous government and today's government, we saw no reason why the Oslo Middle East programme had to be completed before other programmes could be implemented. Such a premise was not contained in the government's Soria Moria statement, but this has been overlooked in silence. In fact, mentioning bets in a particular geographical area is not only helpful but is not followed up in practical action. Oslo City Council had obviously been ready for such a bet on the Groruddalen as early as 2006, but so important was obviously not the valley of the red-green government. Then to the concrete content of a possible bet in the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand. In contrast to the other parties, the Progress Party does not believe that the measures should be targeted at specific ethnic groups, as the Council of State was concerned with, but that all public efforts should be channelled into concerted actions, which do not split, categorize or stamp individual groups as weak and needy. Therefore, the Progress Party takes a distance from public efforts limited to national, religious or ethnic origins. Targeting color blindness in society does not help to introduce color criteria in the policy pursued. The Party also stresses that public liability should not move into areas which are clearly the responsibility of the individual, family or housing body. In fact, it would be wise for parts of the above-mentioned initiative to be used to inform the inhabitants of the five urban areas concerned about what is expected of self-sufficiency in the local environment. Public efforts are good and good, but volunteering, hard work and social responsibility are themselves glued in the neighbourhoods. It is a paradox that the special bet in Oslo City follows the city’s demography. Areas with the largest non-western immigrant population are most in need of public intervention. The Progress Party is calling for a government council to stop and ask, why is that? But such debates do not like the politically correct elite, precisely because you fear what answers you get. In this context, it is worth recalling that the Municipality of Oslo has set out the criteria for allocating financial resources to the urban areas, so that the number of non-western immigrants is a separate criterion for allocating money. In the past, non-Western immigrants without Norwegian citizenship were an appropriate criterion, and once the immigrant received Norwegian citizenship, the need for special public transfers would disappear. This is no longer the case. More and more people who receive Norwegian citizenship still have special needs for public transfers, and natural integration has been lacking. The background to the change in the criteria is a study conducted by Fafo which concluded that the best criterion for money transfer is non-Western immigrants. In other words, the municipality of Oslo will define for the future all non-Western immigrants as weak and needy. When we know at the same time that the increase in the number of non-Western immigrants is explosive, not least in Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand, we understand the enormous pressure on social benefits that will affect Oslo Municipality in the long term. The Progress Party is calling for a government council to stop and ask, why is that? As a small comment: Some time ago, I was visited by a journalist in the NRK who asked me if I could get him an overview of the costs of immigration in Oslo. Then I asked, is there an immigrant account you're looking for? Oh, yeah, that's right, he said. We've been asking for that for 15 to 20 years, while the same journalist and the same channel, that is, the NRK, have criticized us for 15 to 20 years to ask for exactly that. Now he actually needed that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e911	It is natural to start by giving the representative Odd Einar Dørum credit for the initiative and not least for putting on the agenda a problem that is clearly the responsibility of the municipality first and foremost, but which, by virtue of its special nature, actually goes beyond the local authorities to experience normally. That is also why it is quite important to raise the issue on the national agenda. There is little doubt that the situation in the south of Oslo is comparable to the situation in the east of Oslo and in the valley of Grorud in terms of challenges. We have also heard in this Chamber today both the representative of Dørum and others list a number of facts about unemployment, the proportion of the population with a minority background, about migration and about educational levels. Skills, fissures and packages are well and good, and often such measures are necessary simply to get things done within a reasonable time frame. But we should not forget that we also have measures within the so-called ordinary system that we have at our disposal in order to promote integration. It is important then that ideological barriers or short-term considerations do not prevent the best possible use of these measures, to help those who need it the most. It is important that when the municipality takes the responsibility it will take, and the responsibility it wants to take, state authorities must show flexibility and be solution-oriented. But we've been able to record an example of how difficult this can sometimes be. Of course, I am thinking of the dispute that has occurred between the Municipality of Oslo and the State regarding the use of funds allocated to trials with free core time in kindergartens in areas with a high proportion of minority children. Of course, the Council of State is entitled to provide that the allocation was initially intended to cover all children in the area. At the same time, the Committee stressed that: ‘free core time will, in combination with targeted follow-up, also by the representatives, help children to follow regular school education’. This tells me that there was hardly any doubt that the Storting has assessed this allocation as a measure primarily to help foreign-language students master a future school situation. That's exactly what Oslo's initiative aims to do, using these means to initiate action against the 4- and 5-year-olds who neither go to kindergarten nor speak Norwegian. The aim was to give them four hours of daily Norwegian education in kindergarten to prepare them for school start-ups. All of us who work with education policy to day know that language is the key to learning. So this was about giving 632 young children the opportunity to get a useful school start and give them the basic prerequisites for mastering a school situation, as the Grandfathers' Committee formulated the purpose of the grant. And the action in Oslo should, in my opinion, be in line with that assumption. The objective of the Soria Moria Declaration seems to be a little bit more important than the reality in between, especially for the children concerned. State Secretary Libe Rieber-Mohn says in Dagbladet on 26 March: ‘We believe it is unfair to provide an individualised special offer exclusively to children with a minority background. In principle, the offer should be made to all within an area.’;» Even worse, it is when the spokespersons of the Workers' Party and SV elaborate on this in Dagbladet on March 27th. Rune Gerhardsen, Group leader of the Workers' Party in Oslo City Board, says: ‘It is important that no integration measures create accusations that we favour immigrants.’ And he follows up: ‘Yes, in a number of areas, we have chosen to put the universal principle on target.’ I think it is very sad that a measure that is good, that is well intended, and that will have effect, is stopped by statements of this kind. I assume that Oslo City Councillor, Erling Lae, has also expressed through the media that the department was prepared to follow the solution that Oslo has chosen, but turned for the last second. That's what I think is sin, and it doesn't help integration in places like Søndre Nordstrand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e950	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an important matter. Let me also thank you for the tone that is kept in the post from both the inter-pellant and the Council of State, and that shows that it is possible to have constructive cooperation on matters that many understand are important and good. When we are concerned about this, it is because we, who have lived in Oslo, have seen for many years that the efforts undertaken – it started with Oslo in the inner east – have worked and have helped to change the urban areas in which we live. The neighborhood I live in, in the inner east of Oslo, had not been the same without a good split layer and without the targeted bet that has happened systematically and over time. It's true that we've now prioritised the Groruddalen. There has been a broad commitment on the Oslo bench over many years to raise the Groruddalen, and that is absolutely necessary, not only in view of the social challenges we face, but also in relation to the environment and integration. My claim will be that both the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand are urban areas that have the potential that they can be really good places to live. I think that many people who live in the Grorud Valley today are a little afraid that the Grorud Valley will be stamped as a place where it is not good to live. The Grorud valley today is, but it has challenges that are so special that it requires that we have a national focus on what is happening. In the context of the Capital Communication, this is a matter where it is important that we have a broad and good discussion, and we promise to take what is being said here, into the work that is being done on the message to be submitted to the autumn. I record that we have had a debate on whether we should have free core time in kindergartens. There has been one thing that SV has been burning for many years to do, because it has been an effective tool that has not been stigmatizing, but that has been a good offer to create integration. One of the measures that was successful in Oslo's inner east bet was free SFO. It helped to create good integration and made everyone look the same at that time. It's sad to see that it was terminated, and it was quite typical to see who didn't come when it was introduced a proponent on the SFO at Grünerløkka and in the Old Town. I hope that free core time in kindergartens can be an equally important tool for good integration and good and proper language training. So I also want to say that I think that we as Oslo representatives sometimes think that we're a little bit special because we represent the capital. But also we Oslo representatives have some county stuff that everyone burns for. Following up on the Groruddalen and also Søndre Nordstrand are such that I hope that we will be able to stand as wide as possible together to create a combined pressure to continue Oslo's inner east funds, and to make it apply to both Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand in the future. If we agree on that, I think it's an opportunity for us to be able to realize it in a way that makes it successful, as it has been in the Middle East of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e972	As a resident in the area in question, it is exciting to listen to posts here and get a description of what it is like to live in the town of Søndre Nordstrand. A lot of it is probably right, although I think it's a point, which I think both the Doorum and the Council of State made, that there are individuals living there. We cannot talk about groups – nor in this context. I am pleased that Dørum has taken up the interpellation. Even I raised this question with the state council Haga just before Christmas. Without grading state councils, I guess I have to say that the government council that has blacked out today, maybe bears its name, the inclusion minister, in a good way. So I haven't said anything else about anyone else. I find it encouraging that there is no rejection of the possibility – and I have to be a little concrete here – to raise a stake on the Groruddalen while betting on Søndre Nordstrand. I think it would be an abuse of an opportunity to let it go – let's say – ten new years before you put in a too late impact, I would say, in the town of Søndre Nordstrand. Because what might characterize Søndre Nordstrand, even in relation to the Groruddalen, is that here evolution has gone very fast. Governments themselves were in some schools. Here, developments have been such that in three to four years the proportion of minority speakers has increased from 50 to around 90 pst. - only in three to four years. I may be a little surprised that the City Council of Oslo has a slightly backward attitude to this very thing. For those who know the neighborhood, it's actually like we have a moving pattern inside the neighborhood that's just about to make sure you get to a school where it's not 90 pst. minority language. Then we're not talking about that it's just ethnic Norwegian doing it, it's just as much minority-speaking parents as for the sake of language training for their children do the exact same thing. This is what I think we should use the opportunity we now have to include both the town of Søndre Nordstrand and the Groruddalen in a renewed effort – not least because everyone who is in the budget knows that the money that has been in the inner east is now there, they are to be phased out, and it is much easier to use these funds than to start over in one, two or three years. It's a factor that also makes the situation in Søndre Nordstrand become like it has become, quite paradoxical. It is that the district has a very good housing offer: new dwellings, large dwellings, relatively reasonable dwellings. It actually makes a lot of people attracted to this neighborhood, not least minority-speaking, that's a good thing in itself, but that accelerates a development that we've seen. If I'm going to give advice to the Council of State in the dialogue he's going to have with the Municipality of Oslo, there's three areas I think it's important to bet on. There are language offers for children under school age, it is school, and – the last – it is labour market related. There I myself, as former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Children and Family, have used the system under which the Council of State, the Grand Town Council for Children and Young People, has just expanded it to include opportunities for market support. I think that is a very good investment to which I hope the Council of State will contribute. Although it is not under his department, it can be further developed and expanded, because there are many who may get one, two or three years' stay from the labour market, and so unfortunately never get back into it, if it goes too long. I am very pleased with the positive attitude that the Council of State gave in reply to the representative, Mr Dørum. I hope and believe, and will essentially challenge the Council of State on this: do we get the answer to what form the cooperation will take in the Capital Message, or will it come in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e990	The centre party has always been concerned with the development of local communities, whether in the city or in the countryside. In the course of the 1995 big city announcement, Eva Lian was the rapporteur-in-chief, and the Central Party promoted a number of concrete proposals in relation to the challenges facing Oslo. One of the main focus areas of the Centre Party was Oslo's inner east and a package of measures to make an offensive response to the challenges we saw there. The centre party has been pressing for a long time to get an offensive bet. We can see from the interpellant's interpellant emphasis on the investment that has been in Oslo's inner east in recent years. The centre-left government granted 40 million. The action programme for the Oslo inner East in the State budget for 2006. The central party, the Workers' Party and SV thus reversed the budget cut of 15 million. kr that the Bondevik government had proposed. In addition to an increased investment in Oslo's inner east, the government has started work in relation to the challenges in the Groruddalen. We in the Centre Party continue our tradition of supporting measures that promote urban development and integration in Oslo. Integration takes place locally. We are not in the Storting that have the best conditions to see the best solutions to promote integration. But we can support local initiatives that are coming. That is why it is important for me to say that good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and with teams and associations in Oslo is absolutely essential for good solutions to be put in place. For the Centre Party, it is important that the integration and inclusion work in the future be strengthened locally, through local initiatives, not only through national initiatives. Very many of the policy solutions we have in Norway have been created through active local work, a work that has produced results, and which others have then taken note of. Over time, many of the solutions developed in individual communities have become national policies. This is also my starting point for the integration work of the Centre Party. Of course, we need national measures, but it is through incentives to find local solutions that we can find good and targeted solutions. In the national debate, the focus is fast de/vi. In the local area, the focus can get a more vi-character. Nationally, the debate is fast becoming an exclusion debate; locally, I think a more inclusive and solution-oriented debate will be held. But it's not just Oslo that has special challenges. Now that the Government has gone into Oslo with special funds, it is important to remember the own responsibility of Oslo. Oslo itself has the opportunity to prioritize the work towards the urban areas we're talking about now. There is no doubt that today's political majority in Oslo has a primary responsibility to address the challenges Oslo faces. In addition to targeted bets, Oslo received more than 300 million. kr in extra transfers thanks to the new government. With regard to this with a package of measures, it must also be said that we cannot grant so many millions of dollars to a particular area or a particular part of the city over a certain number of years, and then say we are satisfied with it. Although much has been done in the Middle East of Oslo in recent years, we still face major challenges in terms of integration, living standards, brittleness, workplaces, etc. At the same time, both municipal and state-owned, we must recognise that there are other cities and other urban areas that are also exposed. The interpellant has successfully raised Søndre Nordstrand. It is important that we be able to focus on several things and several areas at the same time, and it is local that we have the greatest opportunity to address the challenges we face. But our government is going to contribute to the special challenges we have in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1011	I join those who praise the initiative of Dørum. It is important that the representatives of Oslo can work together to identify problems that are national challenges in the capital. When it comes to identifying the problems, the representative Syversen contributed well when he said that Søndre Nordstrand does not have the same type of problems as we see in the Groruddalen, where, among other things. upgrading older block-building from the 1950s is a major challenge – small two- and three-room apartments, where many people with small incomes, and who may otherwise be resource-weak, gather in a particular area – the Grorud Valley, where sparse and polluted areas are a major challenge, and where the accumulation of living conditions problems is now greatest throughout the city. There's another kind of challenge in Søndre Nordstrand. The challenges are, as everyone has pointed out, mainly inclusion, that there is a large and increasing proportion, especially of children and young people, with a minority background. There is a positive opportunity, but strong and good inclusion measures are required. It is important that this is taken up here at Stortinget in such a width as you do in this debate, because here we have to get the whole country with us. The whole of the Storting and Government must see that these challenges can be compared to the kind of challenges we have faced in the district policy of Finnmark, Nord-Troms and elsewhere, because there is a large population. In the areas we are talking about now, there are over 200,000 people who are facing these challenges. Here, the whole community has to be involved in contributing. With regard to these measures for the inclusion of children and young people, which is the main challenge in Søndre Nordstrand, and where resources should be concentrated, we must try to agree, so that we do not get into sad discussions about what is the best model, when we now agree that it should be put into action. With regard to the discussion of free core time in kindergartens, given the experience of Old Oslo City, I believe it is important that the offer be given to all children in these areas, because it is about inclusion, it is about learning Norwegian from each other. It is a matter of teaching Norwegian culture by Norwegian children to minority children, and it is a matter of teaching Norwegian children about the culture of minority children, so that they have a good background and a good start on school life later. There will be many others who have problems with Norwegian than those that the City Council has now picked out in Oslo, and who will have problems in school. I would therefore think it would be nice for the Right if the Storting could have a greater ambition, if the Government could have a greater ambition than just to pick out the weakest, namely to give free core time to everyone in these areas where we have a large proportion of minority children. I therefore think that the initiative that has come from the Minister in that area is very positive and absolutely correct in order to achieve what we are after, namely inclusion. So a few more measures, which are crucial for including children and young people: Many families with a minority background do not have the same conditions to help with homework, have a PC at home to contribute to home work, as perhaps Norwegian children can have. For this reason, teaching aid is an important key for all in these areas — and here I mean all children, not just minority children. A third challenge, which is also a national challenge, is the drop-out in high school, which has been up to 40 p.p., according to studies carried out in these areas related to the government’s city announcement. Learning places are a major challenge. The Minister of Education has said that he has a working group working on it now and that will come up with actions in connection with the next state budget. Here, we need to strengthen these inclusion measures to prevent children and young people from falling outside and not getting a good start. It is then that both Oslo and Stortinget assume that responsibility. In this regard, I would like to say that the state has begun in a way, when new cuts were prevented in Søndre Nordstrand, with the additional proposition of the state budget in the autumn, where Søndre Nordstrand was given 12-13 million. kr and new cut in the leisure offer was prevented. In 2003, the Halllagbaken leisure club was closed. I therefore hope that the Storting will fulfil its obligations to implement inclusion measures with strength when the message comes, and that the City Council in Oslo will also follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1030	It took years before the Stortinget acknowledged that Oslo, both as the capital and as the only truly large city in Norway, had and has had special challenges that require special attention from government and big business. This recognition resulted in the large internal east bet – a split layer between the state and the municipality, a bet that has resulted in a physical and social rehabilitation of a former slumbered area in Oslo. However, the dynamics of Oslo and Oslo’s development suggest that there is still a need for the state and local authorities to take joint responsibility for the challenges exposed in Oslo, among others. as a result of Oslo being the engine for the development of a multicultural national society. A few years ago, the killing of Benjamin Holmlia and Søndre Nordstrand were placed on the Norway map. The situation told of a society with strong tensions, racist undertones and social inequality. However, the situation also showed the potential of society: a committed community environment, strong voluntary organisations, youth clubs with enthusiast environments, anti-racist sporting activities. Immediately, the big community also set up with the support of the continuation of these good forces. But so it has happened, as often happens, that the spontaneous support remains spontaneous, and that the long-term work to develop the neighbourhood of Holmlia and Søndre Nordstrand stops. Here, as in other parts of Oslo — as in the Groruddalen and as in Old Oslo — important childcare services, youth services and integration measures are being reduced. Søndre Nordstrand is the metropolitan district of Oslo that has the strongest growing population. 30 pst. the population is between 0 and 17 years of age, compared to 20 pst. in the case of the rest of the population. The district has school circuits with more than 90 pst. immigrants. Immigrants make up 37 pst. of the population, against 18 pst. on average for Oslo. We've seen a strong community environment, but the potential that lies in the use of this community environment is undermined, among other things. the economic situation of the district and the general economic situation of Oslo. Major urban deficits have caused many non-governmental organisations to lose their support or to reduce their support. The crew in the youth clubs is cut down, and clubs are laid down. The resource centre that Red Cross has in the district – a very good measure – has reduced its allocations. There is still a rich organisational life on Søndre Nordstrand, but there must be opportunities for further development. And I do feel that the message that comes from the debate in Stortinget today is that the joint responsibility that Oslo and the state have shown for Oslo's development must continue, also on Søndre Nordstrand. The government has announced that it will come back with a capital message and a big city message, and the council said in its statement that there would be a return to some of the issues that have been addressed in this inter-pelling debate. I think it will be a very important message, and it will be able to form the basis for the necessary and long-term work to meet the challenges of multicultural Oslo and multicultural Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1045	Let me join the rose of the interpellant, but also to what has been said here, and to the breadth that has been in this debate, which several speakers have been involved in. It is very important that the Oslo bench and the parties stand together on something as important as further developing the metropolitan areas of Oslo that have major challenges. The interpellant affects the development of one of Oslo’s most multicultural urban areas — perhaps the most multicultural, which many have experienced. I would like to stress that the responsibility for development here, as in other parts of the capital with a high proportion of residents with a migrant background, must be shared between the state and the municipality. It's one of the most important messages, I think, from this debate. It is important that government and growth recognize that making minority groups functioning in our society is something that benefits everyone in Norway, because we have to live side by side. It is also important that the central authorities recognise that the great multicultural city is Oslo. Therefore, the Municipality of Oslo and the State must have a common virtue in order to develop an inclusive society. Keywords here are kindergartens, school policy, Norwegian education, homework, work training and work. Particular attention must be paid to immigrant women, both in language teaching, qualification and work. It's the women who tend to take care of the kids in some of these environments. Free core time in kindergartens and e.g. an open day of kindergarten this week, where parents and children can come, has been held in Søndre Nordstrand, and there are important measures in an inclusion process. In terms of free core time, I can't understand the parties that say this isn't going to apply to everyone in an area. It is precisely when children with Norwegian background and immigrant background come together that children can learn from each other. Britt Hildeng mentioned the racist motivated killing of Holmlia. Let me add that there was a broad political consensus afterwards that it would be invested in youth in the town of Søndre Nordstrand. That's unfortunately the opposite that happens. Measures for children and young people become obsolete, simply because they are not required by law. Many years of poor municipal economy have thus reduced the investment of children and young people in a city with very low average age and major inclusion challenges. I'm not going to repeat part of the statistics that's been taken up before, but the fact that in the district you have Oslo's largest share of children and young people and the largest proportion of immigrants in Oslo, is a combination that makes this not just a matter for the city and municipality, but it must be one of the areas where the government's inclusion policy focuses most on. We have had, and have, the main focus on the Groruddalen, where the state and municipality of course must also have a spice layer, among others. in order to clean up old sins committed by State bodies in particular, not least places of intercourse. The Groruddal Plan is very important to us and has a very high priority. However, we must not forget other areas with major challenges. Time goes very easily from us. We can't afford to let young people with immigrant background grow up to an uncertain life without completed schooling, or work, wherever in Oslo they live. In my opinion, Sdr Nordstrand needs to focus specifically on. I also expect – and that is to the Council of State – that when the Capital Communication comes, special attention will also be given to this part of the city, but perhaps primarily to the integration of people with different backgrounds in Oslo as such, and that action is targeted at groups and individuals, as has been said in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1062	I'm not going to go into trouble with the solution-oriented tone that's here. I'm old enough to remember the forced urban renewal in Oslo. I'm not going to rip it up, it would be painful for many people sitting in the hall. It had to be a broad coalition until then to clean this up, and it cost about. One billion kroner – but leave it. The most important thing is to be solution oriented. The solution-oriented approach seems to me to be reflected in all the contributions, but primarily at the Council of State, because he is responsible. First of all, he has been concerned with what the representative Syversen said, that we can't wait to do anything in Søndre Nordstrand, because we're going to do something in Groruddalen. We have to seize the chance now and be out in time. The second thing I thought the Council of State took in a very good way was how to think about what's important nationally and locally, also with a local freedom. There are several people who have been involved. Local freedom is very important. I also want to take the opportunity to say that of course this is primarily a responsibility for the city of Oslo. The city of Oslo has done a lot, not least through its own school. I have to say, as a education politician, that I would like to see Oslo School debated in the main hall. The most frequently debated school is located in the country, in a municipality with 10,000 inhabitants, a kind of Norwegian average municipality with a happy composition, almost like Kardemmme city, and where the minority population is mascot. That's how it often looks. I don't want us to talk about it in a way other than that, namely, that there are people with different backgrounds, who are to be viewed as individuals, with deep respect, and with the basic view that all people in this country have both rights and duties. One would like to steal an old workers' party slogan, which reads: Do your duty, and demand your right! That's good morals, as long as you realize that some people are small people, and have to meet because they're children, and that some people are struggling with life, and have to face because they're struggling with life. As long as we have that insight with us, individual for individual, no matter how we look, we have a chance to succeed. That's the basic attitude that I've taken up in the interpellation, and that I feel has shaped the posts, and not least the posts of the Council of State. This is more than that the Oslo bench is holding a meeting in the main hall and being joined by others. These are important national issues that are reflected in the capital of the country and require cooperation between local authorities, which have heavy responsibilities, and national authorities, which have their responsibilities. As for the Groruddalen, there is no doubt that in central parts of the Groruddalen it looks as if a troll has stood up in the morning, slid around with everything and been grumpy, and then went and lay down afterwards. To clean it up is something we get to come back to. There's no contradiction between doing what Nybakk's representative called cleaning up in terms of non-compliance, and doing what we now feel we have a great deal of will to do in Oslo south, in Søndre Nordstrand. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1075	I also thank you for an interesting debate. It is clear that a simple boy from the country, as I am, has had a steep learning curve after I was given responsibility for integration and inclusion policy. It is not least important and interesting for me to have a close dialogue with Oslo's politicians and citizens. I think it's a simple, straightforward and correct analysis to come up with that we can't succeed with the inclusion policy in Oslo, and we fail with it in Norway. That's where we have the biggest challenges, and that's where we have every reason to take extra credit. I look forward to continued good cooperation with the entire Oslo bench on the inclusion challenges in Oslo. There has been a great deal of agreement and no basis for commenting on a lot of disagreement, but I would like to say a few words about this attempt at free core time in the kindergartens in Oslo, which has been mentioned in the media lately. Let me first underline that this attention from the Right is a bit touching in this way. It was necessary to go to the State Council of Erna Solberg's proposal for a State budget, and clear up money in place at all for a trial of free core time. Then it wouldn't have been because we got a government shift, we had nothing to discuss in ourselves, because then there would have been zero dollars to try free core time in Oslo. Point 1 must be that there is someone who is going to go a little bit quietly in the doors here, it must be right. Point 2: I'm probably a politician who doesn't think the most important thing here is to draw up fundamental differences where it's not entirely necessary to do so. I have just asked myself, how do we get the most integration and inclusion out of the 10 million? kr that we have after all put off? Launching an experiment, e.g. in Søndre Nordstrand or in Groruddalen, which is about all those who now have 4 to 5 year olds in the kindergarten, to continue to pay, and that we should pick out someone with a migrant background who will have a free kindergarten – in the same kindergartens where others pay normal kindergarten prices – and then say that it should be the start of an experiment to get more inclusion, so I basically don't have any faith in that. I believe that a policy that discriminates against ethnic Northmen for the benefit of people with a minority language background would be the start of a major battle. It would have been a very bad start to an experiment with a good inclusion policy, and I know of someone who would have at least got water on the mill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1084	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-28.ana.ud178e1206	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
