ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e56	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 251]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e72	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 251]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e88	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e97	In some jobs, the talking gear is perhaps more important than the footwork, and then it is important to go to work seams if the legs are not quite good, and there is a bit of what this matter is about today. These are legislative changes which a unanimous Labour and Social Committee recommends that the Grand Duchy adopt, as a follow-up to the work carried out in the autumn of the party-committee chaired by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. The legislative changes that are being presented now came after a process that may have been difficult, but has resulted in a wide range of measures and appropriations that both the Government and the Committee are convinced will help to reduce the increasing sick leave. In Norway, we have a very high level of professional participation. There are a lot of people in Norway who are at work. But we also have a high and an increasing sick leave. It's been worrying, not because people shouldn't be sick, but because we see a tendency for demands to be high, that maybe a lot of jobs aren't able to adapt so that people get work-related illness, but also that you can't adapt to the job so that you can go to work if you have a disability or a disease. That is why the IA agreement has taken this into account. It's been working for years. It has had three main objectives: to reduce sick leave, to include more people in work and to get more seniors to work. It is well that there has not been very good achievement in any of these fields. That is why the Government made a proposal in the original budget. Following the reactions then, a working group has been set up, and the result is a package in which the state agencies have been given renewed tasks and strengthened responsibilities, the social partners have been given new tools and commitments, and more money is also allocated to the purchase of health services and rehabilitation. The focus of work-related sick leave may have been on working in this working group. This is why new rules have now been put in place both to have a faster follow-up to the individual who has become ill, reinforced obligations towards the employer in order to facilitate internal rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the individual workplace, but also to be able to follow-up better with, for example: a primary doctor or other health professional. There are also new obligations for primary doctors. However, it is important, as the Committee also says, that if the doctor is to be present at the dialogue meetings which have now been adopted, it is to be carried out after six weeks, twelve weeks and six months, it is fine, but it is the worker who must, in that case, wish it and feel that it is appropriate. It is important to stress that a diagnosis should not be the subject of such a meeting but that it is the functional assessment and follow-up of the individual's workplace that will be the subject of these meetings. It is also important to stress that employees have the right and the ability to have trust and protection representatives with them in these cases, and it is also important to stress that all enterprises that have occupational health services, including those that have it without being obliged to do so under the Environmental Protection Act, should have occupational health services with them. It is important to be able to adapt well enough for the individual, but I also think it is important that the different businesses can learn quite a lot from systematic health work if you work with it that way. It is also important to stress that both classified sick leave and active sick leave are to be used for periods where there may be breaks in rehabilitation and rehabilitation related to the new schemes. It is also important to bear in mind that the system now imposed on doctors needs to be designed in such a way that doctors actually follow up on the new obligations under the Swedish Social Security Act – that not all other obligations go ahead of the obligation to participate in and contribute to the reduction of sick leave, and that businesses have a better adapted offer for their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e114	This case is about cleaning up a matter that the Government has handled very poorly, namely the sickness pay scheme, where the business community would get a heavy extra payment through increased excesses. I think everyone, including the government parties, agrees that the government's first proposal was clumsy and a little thoughtful. The IA agreement was and is known as an agreement between equivalent parties. The fact that one of the parties withdraws from the agreement and tries to dictate to the other parties without having discussed it in advance shows a total lack of understanding of how a serious contractual partner acts. This also led the government to crawl to the cross after massive criticism, not least from the NHO and the LO. Let's hope that the Government learned something of this, and that this does not repeat itself. The Progress Party supports the agreement currently presented, but there are clearly considerable uncertainties about how this will work in practice. This applies in particular to the purchase of healthcare. I hope the Council of State will explain this in more detail, but I'm going to review some of the points where there are uncertainties. First, I would like to have a reply as to whether the purchase of healthcare should be used to purchase services from private operators, or whether the money should be transferred to healthcare companies. If so, are those purchased free to pass chroniclers or others in the health queue, so that they get longer waiting time? It is also the case that if an employer pays for an operation or for a treatment for which he is an employee, the employee is subject to a preferential tax. What will this be like when the State as an employer pays a government employee out of the health queue? Will the government employee be taxed for benefits? If I don't want a reason for that. Of course, it is amazing that the Government revoked the tax exemption rules when an employer pays for the treatment of an employee, so that the employee is now taxed. The scheme that was in the past saved both the State, the employer and the employee for money and helped to get workers back to work much faster, which has been the objective of the reform of the health pay system now – in addition to the fact that the employee avoided additional suffering due to waiting. It was a win-win case for everyone, not least the state. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if he would like to reverse the system of taxation for employees if the employer pays for the treatment. In my view, it should have been part of the new IA agreement. I hope it comes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e133	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, asked several good and very relevant questions that I see no reason to repeat – even though they were very good. But I hope that the Council of State can respond to them through its intervention later in the debate. And then we might get back to that. More than 110 000 annual works disappear in sick leave each year. Sick leave is a barrier both to society and to individuals, and it is often the first step on the way out into what can be called an ‘outership’, which today counts approximately. 800,000 people. It is essential to take this situation seriously, perhaps especially because it is precisely through good reactivation of sick people in the workplace that we can give people a new chance before it is too late. By doing so, both the private and the public sectors will be supplied with hard-pressed labour. Therefore, the Right is satisfied that today we are dealing with a matter that deals with how to reduce sick leave. When we look at sick leave statistics, we see that sick leave, with the exception of a shorter period in 2004, has been increasing. In 2004, however, we experienced a slight decrease after the last government proposed changes to the IA agreement. The proposals presented at the time were put forward after dialogue with the social partners and were put into effect. So the result was that sick leave went down somewhat for the first time in many years. We know that among the sick, there are especially two groups of disorders that are dominant. There are skeletal and muscle disorders and mental disorders. During our government period, appropriations for the purchase of healthcare were increased, so that these patient groups could be followed up early during the disease reporting period instead of waiting in line for a long time. The longer you are in sick leave, the more likely it is that the sick person will not return to work. The effect of early follow-up and treatment should therefore not be underestimated. When the government in August came up with its proposals for changes to the health pay scheme, this was surprising, not primarily because the high level of sick leave does not call for the health pay scheme to be put under scrutiny, but it was surprising in the light of the criticism of today's government parties when the centre-right government promoted its proposals in the previous period. It was surprising because the same parties in last year's campaign went out and either said or at least it made the impression that the sickness pay scheme was sacred and was not to be touched. And it was not least surprising in what way the Government chose to promote its proposals, firstly by releasing it from the presentation of the government budget, although this was a very important part of the draft state budget, and secondly by making such a radical proposal, which had not been discussed with the social partners prior to the presentation. Rather, it seemed that the Government and the Council of State had discussed the matter with their red-green representatives on the Storting, when the proposal came as lightning from the clear sky while the Labour and Social Committee was on a study trip in India. The proposal caused justifiably anger, but we know the outcome. The government was saved by the good times, when it turned out that it was nevertheless possible to continue with the sickness pay scheme as before, but with a stronger focus on follow-up and early intervention. Let it be clear: the right supports a stronger follow-up and faster treatment of the sick. Among other things, we do. shown through our alternative state budget. At the same time, however, we would warn against believing that the proposed measures we are dealing with here today are a hocus-pocus solution in which sick leave is automatically reduced by establishing the so-called dialogue meetings. Closer contact is needed between the employer, the employee and the NAV in case of sick leave, but we call for the role of doctors in everything. Why does not the medical body responsible for the medical report have a place among those who are required to assess functional needs and organisation? Right-wing promotion of a proposal to grant more money to the social security system in its alternative draft state budget, which we believe should also have a function for the sick, and which we believe could lead to a reduction in sick leave. I am uncertain as to the impact of the proposed measures on sick leave. I would therefore ask the Government to report back to the Storting in the revised national budget on how the measures have been implemented, how NAV follows up, and to what extent it can be seen that the measures actually lead to a decrease in sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e156	In the Christian People's Party, we share the government's concern about the increase in sick leave. It gives cause for concern when the cost of sick leave increases by NOK 3.7 billion next year. Such expenditure growth has a negative impact on other areas of society, and there is therefore a need for measures to reduce sick leave in line with the objectives of the IA Agreement. The government wanted primarily to reduce the cost of sick leave by introducing co-financing responsibilities for the employer. In the budget proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Employment, it was proposed that the employer should pay NOK 2.5 billion in increased costs of sickness pay. We all remember that there were very strong reactions both to the proposal and to the lack of dialogue between the Government and the parties to the IA agreement before the proposal was submitted. All social partners warned against increasing the cost of sick pay for employers, which could result in reduced IA work in enterprises and make it more difficult to integrate older people, disabled people and other groups into the labour market. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government turned around and now no longer wants to change the health money legislation as they originally proposed. Although employers cannot always be charged for the sick leave of workers at all, there is no doubt that there is a significant responsibility on them to help reduce sick leave. Good follow-up of the employee during the sick leave period, on-the-job facilities and partial health care is very important to make it easier for the individual to return to work. Responsibility for reducing sick leave must, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, be shared between three parties. We cannot achieve the goal of reducing sick leave without both employers, workers and doctors contributing to this. In the Christian People's Party we are convinced that the doctors also have a central role in reducing sick leave. We have received clear feedback that the health insurance code is very different. Although the law provides clear guidance for the use of partial health care notifications in all medically sound cases, much indicates that this is not in line with practice. We therefore hope that the Government will issue a regulation or a circular clarifying in a precise way the intention of the law, and not least the social responsibility that lies in the proper practice of this legislation. We in the Christian People's Party support the proposal for a closer follow-up of the individual worker during the sick leave period. However, I would like to clarify that such a follow-up must be done wisely, so that it seems inclusive and motivates to come back to work. A follow-up that is experienced as a mastet and gives the employee a sense of guilt because he is sick and cannot get to work may seem to be contrary to his purpose. In such cases, the absence could be extended unnecessarily. It is essential that the Government monitor closely the development of sick leave and report back to the Stortinget already in the revised 2007 national budget on the development of absenteeism and the impact of the measures proposed in Ot.prp. No 6, which we treat today. I would like to make it clear that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has a special responsibility to ensure that NAV contributes to the reduction of sick leave, as the proposition states.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e177	Today, we can join in good solutions in reducing sick leave. There is broad agreement on the measures adopted by the Government with the social partners. The history behind the process that has been carried out may not be the same reason to rejoice, but there is probably also reason to believe that the results that we have today might have been worse without the phase of conflict we have been through since September. In the Centre Party, we are pleased that we are now receiving positive measures that will help to reduce sick leave. The solution of imposing a greater responsibility on the employer to pay wages under sickness for long-term sick persons would be imposed on many enterprises, municipalities, organisations, etc. heavy costs. On the other hand, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the objective of reducing sick leave in the IA agreement is at stake. The social partners may not assume that the State will cover all the costs incurred in failing to comply with the agreements on their behalf. I hope and believe that the measures contained in the agreement now concluded will have the desired effect. If this is not the case, we assume that one from the state will come back with proposals for action. The State budget shall not appear as the sole source of recovery for the economic consequences of not achieving the intended results of the IA Agreement. The Sick leave Committee report includes a series of active measures to reduce sick leave. A more continuous and better follow-up of the sick subject is a positive expression of providing workers with longer sick leave, an attention and a follow-up that most will experience as support more than as control. I am also pleased that there is better cooperation between the three parties involved: the employee, the employer and health care. It is in cooperation with these three between us that we can develop the good solutions that bring more people back to work instead of out of it, as the situation too often is too long-term ill-reported today. The more than 600 million. kr, which is now set aside for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services, is a very important and, I believe, an effective part of the agreement between the parties to the IA Agreement. The funding of this effort is derived from the senior discount paid in the employer’s contribution to employees over 62 years of age. Many will regret the fact that this incentive to facilitate older workers to remain in the labour market is now falling away. However, I would like to commend the parties to the IA agreement for the solution they have chosen, because it is in fact that the senior discount on the employer’s fee does not seem to give higher participation – as far as you can report, and as far as you can check it. It has simply not worked as intended. Then it is not worthy of protection, the good intentions in spite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e192	In its draft government budget, the government had proposed that employers pay more during the sick pay period. This would significantly increase the costs for employers. At the same time, there was a high risk that disabled and chronically ill workers would be pushed out of work. The left notes that the Government, after concluding a continuation of the contract of an inclusive working life, broke it. The left is committed to respecting and maintaining concluded agreements, unless the parties have agreed on changes. The government set up a party-based sample led by the Prime Minister, who has now promoted an alternative proposal to reduce the cost of sick pay. The left accepts the revised sick pay agreement, as the parties to the IA work have joined it. The left believes that there is a need for more research on what creates sick leave. Therefore, we are uncertain whether the proposed measures will have an adequate impact on sick leave. The Left therefore asks the Government, in the revised national budget, to report back to the Storting on the implementation of the measures proposed by the Sick leave Committee, including the follow-up by NAV and the extent to which the measures have led to a decrease in sick leave. In the opinion of the Left, the absolute everyone working line will not work. The follow-up of sick people must show respect for the individual's situation and not be seen as unnecessary control and disbelief. It is important that there is a good balance between demands to reduce sick leave and the need for calmness of sick people where necessary. The left is therefore satisfied that the Government has different measures to get more people back to work and to facilitate working life in such a way that many people may have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. The welfare system of the future will depend on whether society does the big job. But of course, there's a limit to what you can achieve with the line of work. Especially among women in care professionals, there are too many who end up on disability after many years of heavy lifting, and then it is usually too late. Better organisation of jobs for these professions will be essential to reduce sick leave and enable individuals to return to work. The left is satisfied with the introduction of dialogue meetings where the employee is involved. As a result, the Left option is also supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e207	The rapporteur and several speakers have referred to the concrete proposals contained in what is now in the motion for a resolution. I therefore choose not to spend time commenting on them. There is, of course, agreement on the measures we are now implementing. Several have also pointed out that the process that preceded the proposal to extend the employer’s share of the sick pay scheme was not good. There are many ways to turn open doors. The government itself has said that this process was not good enough. That's why it was so important for the Government to get the process back on track, and so it was very important to get the parties together. We did that in a sample led by the Prime Minister, where I and the Minister of Renewal and Administration were also on the government side. The process led to what we are dealing with today — and agreement on a variety of measures. I think it is very good that we are now in a situation where there is also agreement in Odelstinget on the proposals proposed by the sample. It is important for me to stress that the assessments made by the technical sample that calculates the impact of different measures in the population's population have shown that the sum of the measures now in place will have a similar impact on the reduction of sick leave in 2007. So it's not a political assessment, it's an assessment of the type of technical estimate that we're now going to be able to have the same effect. The important thing for the government when we got the process back on track was that it should not lead to us getting a higher sick leave in 2007 than what we wanted with our original proposal. We have now reached the point where we intend to reduce sick leave equivalent to what was originally planned. Several have also argued that, as part of the contract relating to the Sick leave Committee, it was agreed to redeploy money from a reduced employer’s fee for them over 62 years to purchase health and rehabilitation services. Questions have been raised in the debate so far on how to dispose of that money. From the Government's side, we now conclude a draft of how we believe that the money should be disposed of. It will then be sent to the social partners, for part of the agreement we entered into in the Sick leave Committee, that the disposal of the funds would be discussed with the social partners. I propose such a discussion to the week, with a view to having a good discussion with the social partners before Christmas. After that, of course, Stortinget will be properly briefed. I have also noticed that several have asked the Government to give a thorough feedback on how the situation is developing in relation to sick leave in the revised national budget next year. I have, of course, noticed that wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e223	I expect that we will come back to the answers to the questions I had, when it is negotiated. But I noticed that the Council of State did not deal with the taxation of employees. My question is, is there any logic that the state spends more than 600 million dollars? kr to buy free workers from the health queue, while taxing workers who the company wants to buy free? It really means vetoing it, because it's the taxation of disease. Is this ideologically justified, or is it the fear that these are going to use private hospitals, which are the driving force behind this? Will the Council of State take it up and try to reverse the decision taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e231	Tax policy in Norway is constitutionally under the auspices of another State Council. I believe it is wrong for me in Stortinget to discuss what kind of tax policy we should have in the country. The question of how to tax these types of schemes is the Minister of Finance for which he is responsible. I believe that it is right for me to ask that the representatives of the big business ask the question to the Council of State that is constitutionally responsible for that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e236	The focus in the IA agreement is now on reducing sick leave. It's an important goal. However, the objective of the agreement to include disabled and older workers in the workplace is no less important. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the IA agreement will be integrated in the future and not reduced to focus solely on reducing sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e243	I very much agree with the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund that it is important to focus on the fact that the agreement on inclusive working life has more than one goal. The objectives of getting more people with disabilities to work and getting seniors to work longer are also very important. It is important for me to look very much towards the social partners. There is no doubt that the social partners must take greater responsibility than they have in relation to the two objectives. So, of course, we're going to do it by the state as well. These objectives are, of course, the main reason why we are in the process of implementing difficult reforms related to NAV, the key messages on work, well-being and inclusion, and the communication on pensions, which should be the major political levers, among others. to increase the number of people with disabilities at work and to increase the number of people at work in relation to old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e250	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 252]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e268	This is what we're going to take. The transitional arrangements for workers from Bulgaria and Romania are justified by the desire to prevent social dumping. The Committee notes the comments made by the respective parties in the examination of the notification of St.meld. No 9 for 2005-2006, which referred to the continuation of the transitional rules for workers from the so-called EU8 countries. The majority also refers to the Government's action plan against social dumping, which, together with the transitional arrangements for citizens from new EEA countries, is, in the view of the majority of the Committee, effective in the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e277	I think it's important, even when we're dealing with these kinds of things, to try to raise your eye to something in order to get a little perspective on what it's actually really about, in addition to the exact adoption of a paragraph. The European Economic Area has been developing rapidly in recent years. From the time Norway joined the European Economic Area, the EEA, in the 1990s and until today, the EU has been enlarged by 10 new countries. Thus, when Bulgaria and Romania enter the EU, there will be two more from the new year. EU enlargement helps to link Europe in a way that ensures cooperation, trade and development, and at the same time put an end to the conflicts that marked our continent for far too many years. The enlargement of the EEA area creates opportunities both for the Member States and for the inhabitants of the Member States. By having a common European labour market, we will be able to ensure better access to labour in countries where this is needed, while at the same time reducing unemployment in countries where unemployment is high. This is worth remembering, not least in view of the political history of the political debate linked to the so-called four freedoms in Norway. Today, there is a shortage of labour in several sectors. The labour situation is serious, because it limits the growth of society and because it helps to push up wage and price growth. In the long term, this could also have a negative impact on well-being. That is precisely why, it seems to be right, sadly, that today we are dealing with a case of extending the transitional rules for workers from the old Eastern bloc countries, the so-called EU8, to Bulgaria and Romania from the new year. The labour situation in Norway today suggests that we need more immigrants, not fewer. Labour immigration from the east does not pose a threat to Norwegian jobs. On the contrary, they are actually involved in securing these, as a labour market without immigration will lead to lower economic growth and fewer jobs in Norway. That is why, in the view of the Right, we should not consider today a proposal to extend the transitional rules for the two new EU countries, but rather a proposal to remove the restrictions imposed by the transitional rules on free labour migration in the EEA area. It is also a point that today we have transitional rules for some EU countries, but not all. Transitional rules are and will be a ranking of workers from different EEA countries, and the right considers this to be fundamentally unfortunate. When the Grand Duchy dealt with a parallel case in the spring of 2006, it was pointed out that several countries are now removing the transitional rules for new EU countries. At that time, the Government replied that they would follow the situation continuously, possibly repealing the rules before their expiry in 2009. It shall be interesting to see when, and in what way, the Government considers it to be reasonable and necessary to repeal the transitional rules. The sooner it happens, the better it will be. In its alternative State budget, the right proposed the repeal of the transitional rules in force and that Bulgaria and Romania should not be subject to transitional rules either. We should welcome foreign workers, not meet them with obstacles. Unfortunately, although we are not a member of the EU, through the EEA, we still have an obligation to participate in creating and offering jobs and opportunities for citizens from EU Member States. On behalf of the Right and the Left I take this up with the minority proposal that is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e296	The representative Martin Engeset has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e299	I do not think the representative of Engeset's posts can stand completely undisputed. He presents it as if those who now want transitional arrangements do not want foreign labour to be welcomed to Norway. So let's do that. We also welcome them to Norway with pay and working conditions equivalent to the Norwegian salary level and Norwegian working conditions. I have no doubt that it is indeed a competitive advantage for Norway that we do so. Many come to Norway without coming here as single workers and coming under the transitional arrangements. Unfortunately, in this area, we have seen quite an increase in the level of social dumping, and that is why the Government, with broad support from the United Kingdom, has presented an action plan against social dumping, where they have also announced that new measures will be taken. It's necessary. That's exactly what's necessary for us to take care of well-being. Foreign workers themselves do not have a negative impact on well-being, but if we do not manage to keep up standards, such as: concerns health, environment and safety in the labour market, welfare for all will be reduced and not increased. So no one in the positioning parties has said that immigration to Norway is a threat to Norwegian jobs, as Engeset says. No, we didn't say that. On the contrary, all foreign workers wish to welcome to Norway, and see that this is absolutely necessary. The difference is the strength of the wish for those who come here to have Norwegian pay and working conditions, including those who come here as single workers. The government parties are concerned that it will be ensured, and we can do that through the transitional arrangements. It is absolutely right that we should follow this up and see to what extent we can remove the transitional arrangements, when the legislation and measures against social dumping are implemented and we see that they are starting to work. Finally, this is not a ranking of Europeans. I know that someone is trying to interpret it this way, but it's on the contrary, as SV sees it, a help and an assistance to the employees who want to get here as single workers, to achieve good pay and working conditions. And that's a competitive advantage for the companies that want to recruit them, precisely because they're able to attract labour. And Norway has. If we compare ourselves with our neighboring country, more come here than to our neighboring country. We think that is positive, and therefore we believe that the transitional arrangements have a far more positive effect than the representative from the Right to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e312	It is regrettable that the Government will maintain today's transitional arrangements. The left considers that it is time to remove the transitional rules. Since labour immigration from the east has not been found to threaten Norwegian jobs or welfare schemes, the transitional rules become a purely ranking of the citizens of the EEA in first- and second-class citizens. The size of labour immigration follows the situation in the labour market. Countries with high labour needs receive more workers than countries with low labour needs. It is this dynamic that has led Norway to receive more Eastern Europeans than Sweden in the last two years, but far less than, for example, Sweden. Ireland. The reason why the Government will maintain the transitional arrangements is that it is afraid that this could promote a development with more unfair labour market conditions, social dumping, as long as no measures are in place to counteract this. The left will, of course, fight social dumping, but believes that today's legislation is doing this in a good way. The left would stress that it is a clear pre-requisite that all workers in Norway should have proper pay and working conditions and that careful monitoring of compliance with the applicable pay and work environment legislation is necessary. However, we believe that we already have measures that can counteract this, by requiring workers and immigrants to follow the Norwegian rules of the game that apply to all workers in this country, as well as specific rules that apply to immigrants. Left believes that some of the problems will disappear by opening the boundaries so that the conditions become the same for everyone. The left therefore believes that it is time to remove the transitional rules, so that the possibility of living and working in Norway is equal for all EEA citizens. The European Trade Union Confederation, DEFS, has called for the removal of the current transitional labour rules from the new EU countries. DEFS notes that the restrictions on the movement of labour from the new Member States are contrary to the fundamental rights of individuals and believe that the objective must be free movement throughout the enlarged Union. The left will point out that attracting labour and skills is becoming increasingly important for Norway. The labour market is already very tight and unemployment is expected to fall further in the coming months. In some industries, the labour force from the east is not sufficient. Foreign workers constitute a resource that we need in the Norwegian community. The left considers, in principle, that by removing the transitional rules, the possibility of living and working in Norway will be the same for all EEA citizens. Sweden, the United Kingdom and Ireland, which were the only countries that did not impose restrictions on labour immigration from the new EEA countries, have experienced a decline in unemployment, increased employment and higher economic growth than many of the countries that have introduced transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e325	Just a brief comment on the intervention by the representative Karin Andersen: if it had been such that having transitional rules was a very accurate and good tool to prevent social dumping and unworthy conditions in the Norwegian labour market, the Right would have liked to be involved. But it has turned out that it is not a particularly suitable and accurate tool to avoid it. Why in the world do we have the conditions that we actually have, and that we need completely different means of combating them? There has recently been a significant degree of political agreement on the matter we dealt with recently, so there is no reason to make this matter a matter of social dumping. Would this have been a guarantee to avoid social dumping on the labour market, why worldwide is it that the European Trade Union Confederation, the European Trade Union Confederation, has been strongly involved in the liquidation of these types of schemes? It should probably make a little impression on the red-green representatives also in Norway that the European trade union movement actually wants to get rid of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e332	I think this is a very interesting and fundamentally important debate. I therefore need to link some comments to it. One main question is whether having this kind of transitional arrangements limits access to labour from these countries. Of course you don't have any scientific measurements on that, because we've never tried not to have them. Nevertheless, it must be noted that Norway has considerable access to labour from these countries, including as a single worker. A whole series of the types of work permits have been issued. If you, for example, In comparison with our neighbours in the East, that is, the Swedes, who have not had this kind of transitional arrangements, we must note that they have many fewer single workers than we have. So my conclusion is that there is a lot of evidence that there is a situation in the labour market that determines how many people get as single workers, not whether or not you have transitional arrangements. I believe that you can reason up to that, based on the relationship Norway and Sweden in recent years. I also believe that there is every reason to make a comment that goes towards the fact that for a period of time these transitional arrangements have actually been quite recruiting for Norway. And what do I mean by that? Well, I think the transitional arrangements are very simple. It is not comprehensive, bureaucratic arrangements. It does not seem to be a major obstacle to coming to Norway despite these schemes. Therefore, even those countries with which we have transitional arrangements have little criticism of Norway, because transitional arrangements can be organised and managed in so many ways. We have very simple models, and this has led to a large number of those who have come to Norway as single workers, avoiding social dumping and obtaining Norwegian pay and working conditions. I think that in many ways has seemed very recruiting and contributed to the fact that we have got more than we could otherwise have risked getting. I agree with Martin Engeset that we have social dumping challenges – there is no doubt about it. But above all, it is services immigration, so that in the case of individual workers, our social dumping challenges are not so great. This suggests that the transitional arrangements have actually worked. I believe that there is reason to go on with these transitional arrangements for a while more, because they do not interfere with us in getting people into the labour market, which we need. It gives us time and opportunity to make sure that the day we cancel the transitional arrangements, we have replaced them with others, more general arrangements to combat social dumping. I think if we look at the labour market in the future, having a decent working life is one of the most important things from Norway to really be attractive in recruitment. It is clear that it will be attractive for people who want to go out to find a job in another country. I will end by saying that I agree with those who say that the best thing would have been not to have these transitional arrangements. Therefore, it must be a sincere objective to be able to lift them as quickly as possible. That is why I – and the Government too – now work with several measures to combat social dumping across the board. There will be more consultation before Christmas, and we are now systematically following up the action plan on social dumping, which was launched in the revised national budget. When we feel that we are doing well with these measures, it is my – and the Government’s – ambition to abolish these transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e345	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 253]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e353	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e398	Right and left have notice that these will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e410	It's going to be a little bit more than IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e425	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e437	So we're going to vote over the rest of I and II, III and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e494	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e504	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e645	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e655	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e663	During the debate, Martin Engeset has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Romania and Bulgaria are not included in Section 58(a) of the Foreign Affairs Act.Special rules for workers from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary in Section 58(a) of the Foreign Affairs Act are repealed.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e717	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e730	We're going to take the vote one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e743	The President assumes that the Right and the Left will vote against. We're going to have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e757	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-14-lower.ana.ud575e768	There is no record available.
