ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e38	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e41	On behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Korsberg, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I am delighted to propose measures for increased competition in the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e46	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e49	On behalf of Svein Flötten, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Finn Martin Vallersnes and myself, I would like to propose measures to improve the recruitment situation in the fishing and shipping industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e54	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e57	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Torbjørn Hansen and myself, I would like to make proposals for increased control of private security companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e62	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e76	As the president said during the presentation of the representative proposal, it deals with a matter raised by the representatives of Ola T. Lånke, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal and Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on building a new, modern and functional clinic building for farmed animals at the Norwegian veterinary college, or alternatively on co-location of Norway's veterinary college and the University of Environmental and Life Sciences in Ås. With regard to the draft representative, which is being discussed today, there is an overall committee behind all the comments in the vote. The Committee refers to Innst. S. No 240 for 2004-2005, where a majority, all except the members of the Progress Party, took note of the following assessment by the then Government: ‘The Government believes that the co-organisation and co-location of NVH and UMB, as well as the transfer of the Veterinary Institute to Ås, could contribute to the building of an integrated and integrated primary industry activity at Ås. Furthermore, a co-organisation and co-location could provide the basis for a unique innovation where UMB and NVH are closely linked with other relevant research institutions in the field. At the same time, this will be a follow-up to the thematic focus of the Research Communication on Food. A co-location at Ås will require significant investments in construction and other infrastructure. The Ministry of Education and Research will therefore undertake an overall assessment of the costs. The size of the project requires a thorough quality assurance before the final conclusion on organisation and location is reached.» And on the other hand, ‘It is assumed that the activities of the NVH and the Veterinary Institute in Rogaland will also be further developed by possible coordination and transfer to Ås.’ The Committee refers to the letter from the Minister of Knowledge of 17 October 2006 that the Ministry of Spring/Summer 2006 has raised questions about the modernisation, organisation and location of Norway's veterinary higher education institution. In dialogue with the institutions, this base material is now being reviewed by an external consultancy firm in line with the State investment project quality assurance procedures. The Committee notes that the Council of State aims at presenting the matter to the European Parliament in the revised national budget for 2007. The Committee took note of this and recommended that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes. Finally, I just want to say that I am personally happy that this important matter has come so far, and that it seems to be a solution within a reasonably short time. I would like to say on behalf of all Norwegian farmers – large and small, fish farmers along the whole coast and all those who occasionally need veterinary services for their pets – that it will be a great day when the new building of the Norwegian veterinary high school is completed, whether it will be on the ground here in the city, or whether there will be coordination with the University of Ås. Future veterinary students have both the right and the right to have full teaching and research facilities to become the world’s best veterinarians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e101	I am aware that the Committee has not given up any debate on this matter, but it has such a long history that I, as a proposer, feel that at least I should have the opportunity to say a few words. Already in 1994, the planning of a new clinic building began at Norway’s veterinary high school. At the time, it came so far that State Building completed a draft construction plan, but unfortunately these plans were not continued. It has not been said too much that the time is now over-ripe in order to start the construction of a new clinic building for farmed animals at NVH, while at the same time preparing for a general upgrading and updating of the total building mass at this institution. Parts of this building mass are very outdated, worn out and not adapted to today's requirements for teaching and research facilities. The construction of the university began in 1920. Medical clinic, now medical clinic for farmed animals, was the first to be built. At the start of the university in 1935, 15 veterinary students were immatured, for whom the clinic was built. Now 60 veterinary students and 15 pet nurses are admitted each year, all of whom are to be taught in the old premises. Medicine and surgery clinic stands the way it was built in the 1920s. This building is peaceful and also in a very bad condition. The reproductive clinic is in a building that has been rated 4 by Statsbyggen, which means that it is unsuitable for the purpose. Another serious argument is that none of the clinics have isolated cases of serious infectious diseases. There is also a lack of other important facilities to prevent the spread of infection. Only one clinic is infected, and it is also heavily modified. The prevention of infectious animal diseases, including diseases that can infect humans, has become increasingly important in an institution to train veterinarians. The importance of high veterinary competence in this area has been demonstrated in the context of several serious outbreaks, such as foot-and-mouth disease and mental illness in the United Kingdom and now the global presence of avian influenza. One aspect which, for example, helps to clarify the need for new premises is that at two of the clinics the fertiliser must be rolled out into free-air containers, while in the third building there is a pit of manure below half the clinic. It is obvious that this increases the risk of spreading infectious diseases within the institution. Conditions prevent the housing of patients with such important conditions and reduce the quality of education. On this basis, it is only necessary to proceed with the case. On the part of the proposer, we are currently satisfied that an overall committee is now stressing the need, and that it is urgent to resolve the situation and establish a new, modern and functional clinic building for farmed animals. We are meeting a rapid follow-up from the Council of State and that there is a matter for Stortinget, at the latest in connection with the revised national budget for spring. The Christian People's Party believes this will be crucial to ensuring high-level education and research in veterinary medicine in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e122	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 578]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e138	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e145	The representative's proposal raises important questions, which we're going to go into here. I'm counting on the minority to explain their views, so I take what the majority in the committee thinks. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, point out that the prevention of sexual abuse against children is a central concern of the Government. This is underlined in the Soria Moria Declaration. Points 1 and 2: The majority refer to the use of resources in several areas to strengthen work to prevent sexual and other child abuse. These include: develop better and more comprehensive legislation to protect children, enhance the competence of persons dealing with child sexual abuse issues, improve the organisation of investigations into such cases and improve cross-sectoral cooperation between professionals dealing with these issues. The majority emphasise that following the development of plans it is important to follow-up with action. The government is therefore to establish Barna's house, according to a model from among others. Iceland, during 2006. Such a house will help to gather the various public agencies involved in this type of case, in one place, and it will be easier to provide information to the victims. I notice that the Right wants three Barna's houses, but in the time they were in government, they couldn't get to one. Point 3: The majority indicates that with the extension of the Internet and so-called online chatting, the area where children are exposed to adult abuse has also been expanded. The majority share the concerns of the proposer and the assessment that this type of action relating to the preparation of any sexual abuse against children is highly serious. In order to counteract such abuses, the Government, in the autumn, puts forward a proposal in the Penal Code to introduce a provision on ‘grrooming’, which proposes that preparatory actions be criminalised. The proposal is based on the UK provision adopted in November 2003. Points 4 and 5 of the proposal: the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, will build on the broad competences that exist in this field both in the public and private sectors. The majority point to the fact that Redd Barna and Telenor, together with Kripos, have been involved in the development of a data filter that prevents access to pages of attack material with children. The majority believe that international cooperation is important in order to obtain the best possible results in this type of case. Kripos has established a base for collecting all assault images in Norway. It shall be possible to connect the base to Interpol's base. This will greatly facilitate the work of investigators. The majority point to the fact that the Government has set up a working group with broad experience from several disciplines with a mandate to promote proposals to prevent Internet-related child abuse. We see it as natural that this group looks at Norway joining the Virtual Global Task Force. Before considering the establishment of a further competence centre for the fight against child abuse, we will await the input and suggestions of that working group. We would like to stress that proposers raise important issues and that these issues will present us with major challenges in the future. The majority will therefore follow closely the work of sexual abuse against children. The proposal for a decision is that Document No. 8:74 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e168	It is a very important matter that the proposers raise today. We're the parents of almost all of us sitting here in this room, and there's no one else we're more afraid and worried about than our children. Putting the spotlight on the lack of effective protection for children is very important, as the proposers refer to here. It is gratifying to see that there is actually an overall committee, and also the Minister of Justice, who is engaged in preventing sexual abuse against children. Pointing to the work Redd Barna and Telenor has done in collaboration with Kripos is very important, and it's about expanding this work. The minority in this case will have a greater pressure on this topic. We see that it is important to focus on the vulnerability of children in today’s electronic society – therefore this proposal. There is a very great need to coordinate the auxiliary equipment that meets our children, and therefore it is important to get the Barna's house in place. The Minister of Justice has announced that there will be one in 2007, but the minority nevertheless believe that it is important to get more Barna’s houses in place. This is a matter that is not being fully debated today. There will be more issues on this topic in the next year and forward, the Minister of Justice has announced, and we are looking forward to a further debate on this matter that is so important. But it must not be forgotten that much of this is about prevention. The Progress Party has recently been accused of not talking about prevention and not dealing with prevention, but I strongly reject it. After all, it's all the parents who have the primary responsibility for their children's Internet usage, it's the parents who have to be busy watching what the kids are doing on the Internet, even at school. I was at a meeting that was a parent of my ten-year-old daughter when it came to something called the Children's Watch, which is supposed to teach us parents of children in primary school about Internet use. It turns out that our children are much more up online than what we parents are. I hope the Minister of Justice is aware of the work being done by the Children's Guard. But the schools also have a responsibility. It turns out that these little children who use the Internet more and more at school are online enough to have their own website – including my ten-year-old daughter. That's what these ten-year-old girls who go to high school are concerned about. Then it is important that we parents are aware of what they are doing, and therefore the prevention of parents and schools is very important to bring them into this matter. I address the proposals made by the minority from the Right and the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e179	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e182	The Lakmust test on criminal policy must, in the Right's view, be its ability to take care of and protect the weakest among us. Children do not demonstrate in Eidsvoll's place or send strong resolutions to the Minister of Justice and the Justice Committee. Responsibility for protecting children lies with adults. That is why, in spring 2006, a number of proposals were put forward with the sole aim of improving the legal certainty of children in general and combating sexual abuse against children in the wake of increased use of electronic media. Today, the Storting has the chance to act on behalf of children who are subjected to abuses that can affect them throughout their lives, and to prevent new children from being hit. Today, the Storting can contribute to Norway’s increasing number of countries in the world that are doing the most for those who are the least. Norway’s international ambition must be to stay close in this area, not to flout. I was quite encouraged when the Minister of Justice in yesterday's Question Time so clearly underlined the Government's willingness to strengthen children's legal certainty, but I now call for the same will of the government parties in the Judicial Committee and challenge them once again to support the proposals of the minority in the case. The proposals, if adopted, could indicate a time gap compared to the fact that Norway is also taking seriously the new dangers to which children and young people are exposed through the use of new electronic media. Norwegian children are at the forefront of the world when it comes to using new technology – at good and bad – because at the same time it means that Norwegian children are also among the first to experience the negative aspects of the new technology, whether we are talking about the amazing opportunities of mobile phones or the Internet and the wonderful world. What the children have not known, and which many adults have not yet fully absorbed, are the dangerous traps children risk going in if we don't guide them in safe use. Unfortunately, adult pedophiles through online chat sites have caused new arenas to unfold, and constitute a major potential danger to children who cannot be expected to reveal adult men who pretend to be entirely different from those in reality. Cynics speculate in winning the confidentiality of young girls and boys, thus attracting sensitive information about their potential victims. Adult volunteers monitoring traffic at Norwegian chat sites tell of a number of cases where they intervene, alert the police and ensure that the website shuts out those suspects are adults with crazy intentions in search of children. But remember, the fewest chat sites have such surveillance, and when we know how popular chatting is, we can easily understand the danger children and young people are exposed to. Several of the proposals of the Right and Advance Party deal with strengthening Kripos and police competence and resources in order to monitor and patrol the network in a more systematic way and to intervene when it is necessary to understand that children have experienced or are at risk of abuse. In view of this, it is interesting to read the statements of the National Association of Politicians and the National Advocate. In both, a sharper ‘grrooming’ paragraph is clearly addressed than the government sent to the hearing. These advices should be carefully listened to by the Minister of Justice. I believe there is a new abuse of the child if the law allows adults to know and not intervene, but requires that the physical meeting between the offender and the child take place, before it can be intervened. Unknown adults who make meetings with foreign children via chat channels are special, in particular about the child’s appointments and will travel to such meetings alone without their parents. Then all the alarm bells must ring. The child’s concern as a weak party must be the starting point for society’s behaviour. A law to protect and protect the child from abuse must be developed on the child’s premises. Children in a serious crisis and their superiors today meet a split auxiliaries. Adults may enter one door to NAV, while young children must enter many doors when meeting their auxiliary equipment. In Iceland, Barna’s house, where the auxiliary unit meets the child, has been established for the longest time. In Sweden, six Barna regional houses are soon in place — in fact, in the light of the Norwegian investigation completed in 2004. It is understandable that two years later in Norway we continue to conduct investigations. I have two prayers for the Minister of Justice: he must make a rapid change and quickly establish Norway's first Barna House, which is promised in 2007 – not in 2006, as the case-law rapporteur said here. He has to ensure that regional Barna’s house can also be established as quickly as possible, so that we have a nationwide offer, and that Norwegian children, regardless of their place of residence, can have such competence in the vicinity. The Regional Barna House must have a role as a centre of expertise in the surrounding police districts and contribute to the building of competence of the police officers who first meet the child and who must know which buttons to press when the suspicion of abuse is present. With this I refer to the minority proposals raised by the representative of the Progress Party, and will once again encourage the government parties to vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e216	The representative of Aspaker had two prayers to the Minister of Justice and the majority. I have a great sense that you have faith in the power of prayer, so I can basically join the two suggestions that she would like to have a response to from the majority. With that I have also said that the Christian People's Party will support the minority proposals as they stand in the vote. Having said that, I think that there is still reason to point out that there is an overall positive reference to this proposal and a willingness to take seriously this new situation that the new technology involves. Unfortunately, we know that there are some people who are able to use the new technology even in relation to children in an extremely unfortunate way. Unfortunately, those who know how to exploit children both sexually and in other abuse contexts are often the fastest to find the new ways in technology. Now there's going to be a line change, but I'm especially interested in knowing how the Minister of Justice views this review of the special part of the penal code, and whether you have a leading precautionary principle here in relation to the reality we're seeing in front of us, and to the extent that it's already in. The representative Horne mentioned the Child Guard. There should therefore be no accusation that the Progress Party is not now talking about preventive measures, because this is a very important preventive measure. I really have a hope that the authorities will be able to cooperate more closely with the Children’s Guard. That goes on in the budget as well. We get the opportunity on later occasions, in a short time, to strengthen their ability to talk to all the parents who unfortunately are not quite aware of what the Internet is giving of challenges for the children, and to the extent that it is for themselves. I've had a meeting with the Children's Watch Tower, and it's, as they say, an incredible naivety among many parents in relation to what's happening in boys and girls' rooms connected to the Internet, MSN, etc. Then in the setting it is referenced to the SAFT project. There I also have a little concern. The SAFT project, which is very good, is actually highlighted in Europe as one of the foremost – the Norwegian part of the SAFT project is at the forefront – is now organised with the Media Authority. I'm a little confused about whether this is the right organisation for the SAFT project. Whether what's in the best company should be unsaid, but I could, for example, I would like to look at whether the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate could be a better organisation for the SAFT project, so that it can also be raised on the agenda. Otherwise, I would like to pay tribute to the Government for the “grrooming” provision that can now be implemented soon. It was Minister of Justice Dørum who in his time started working on such a provision. I myself attended one of the first meetings with the organisations related to this, among others. Save the Children, BarneVakten, etc. There was agreement that this was an important provision to prevent possible criminal activity. It is clear that there are strict demands on those who are going to charge that kind of behavior, not least in evidence, but equally fully we believe from the Christian People's Party that it is a right way to go. As they say, technology offers incredible opportunities, but it has its shadow pages. That is what I believe the representatives wanted to find out in this document, and that is a positive support for it. We will vote in favour of the proposals from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e233	In SV, we are pleased with the wide-ranging involvement of the Storing in all batches related to possible child abuse issues, and not least how raw attackers use the Internet and new electronic tools to both prepare and implement it. The Judicial Committee has spent a great deal of time over the year since the previous decision to raise awareness of the issue. We've had a trip to London, where we visited Metropolitan Police and New Scotland Yard, and we got a presentation of experiences with a grooming paragraph in the United Kingdom. We have visited and visited Europol and Interpol and have received a presentation of the type of work being done in Europe — in cooperation between different European countries — also in Norway, in the prevention of child abuse. We have also had meetings with Kripos and the Police Directorate, where we have been introduced in the same way as what is happening in Norway and what is happening in international cooperation. And in sum – both against the knowledge acquired by the Justice Committee and the measures now being implemented by the Government – we see that we have the opportunity to achieve results in this area. The fact that you also have an opposition pressing for something to happen is in itself positive. At the same time, I think there is reason to warn against creating a kind of competition in action without ensuring that the measures are anchored professionally. The creation by the Government of a working group to look at measures is a way of ensuring that the measures are targeted and also deliver the expected results. In its time SV was a proposer for the establishment of Barna's house, and was able to see through to it. It looks like there's now broad support across the Storting to the establishment. It's also impatience. The Judicial Committee shall be to Reykjavik in January and shall take a look at the experience of Barna's house there. However, it is important that Norway find models for Barna’s house on national premises, so that the measure is as targeted as possible according to the situation in Norway. Then I see that the Right has proposals for establishment in addition to the number that has been outlined by the Government. It's also an impatience you can initially appreciate. But it must be that we ensure the professional content, are specific to it and get action, so that it not only becomes pure competition in quantity, but that the quality is in the high seat. But with the impatience flagged from the opposition, we can be reasonably sure that we are able to keep up the pressure against child abuse problems throughout the ageing period. It is very much appreciated, because it is one of the things we want to give the highest priority in terms of crime prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e248	It must be such that it is a time for strife and a time for fellowship. Although I am going to vote in favour of the minority proposal – I will come back to that – I think it is the heavy Community lines that are the most important thing in this case. For my part, I would like to be the time witness that I think it would be totally unreasonable to say that the Progress Party is not concerned with prevention. It's a little strange that I'm going to say it in the pulpit, but at least I have – what's the name – four years of political coexistence with the representative Ellingsen. I can from this pulpit state that his commitment in this field is deep and real. So let reality be what they are. There are enough areas where we have an honest disagreement, but in this area, I think it's right that the representative Ballo said it. I want to define it in my language: it's some kind of friendly competition. It is friendly in that it is impatient in a factual way to provide solutions to vulnerable people and in areas that are also legally difficult. So I would say, with the experience I have from a little bit of other roles in my life, that it might be a little good for a Minister of Justice to bit a big deal that has a certain pressure. When the Council of State is not only to be the Council of State in its own department, but to cross ministerial lines, to hold demanding debates on the relationship between child protection authorities and one another, it may be very good to have a little co-wind – not from the sea, but from the hall. That could be good. And it might be a good thing to participate in these reflections, as my former colleague Victor Norman has described in a book, as one approaches the core areas of fiscal policy, to fight for some important small money, which may not be so big when one is moving very responsibly in the billions, but which is vital to them. I feel that the Justice Committee has basically put up that tone. I feel it. I also think that in that spirit it is right for me to praise the proposers who have taken the initiative for the energy contained in it and for the opposition in the Committee, the Right and the Progressive Party to be united on the proposal that has been presented. I'm in favour of a "grrooming" determination. I've been there from the beginning. I am aware that it is legally difficult, in the sense that preparatory actions are approaching everyday life's actions so much that pulling the interface is incredibly demanding. When I was willing to do it in this field, it's because I've been close to adult people who have approached children either in a gross cynical or a grossly speculated way. If we can at least raise a tab page paragraph that makes the symbol mark that we don't like, we don't like this, then we might have to live with it being difficult when it comes to the piece. I see the paragraph when it comes, as a mobilization of what both the majority and the minority in the committee write about, that is, the mobilisation of the good forces in society, in civil society, for example. Fear The children have made an invaluable effort very early, and all other parts of civil society, and that one can cultivate the fact that politicians see it as their task, as well as moving crowns, as well as making legal provisions, to cultivate the culture that makes departments and departments cooperate with each other, and that makes people not crushed by systems because systems are basically going to be right. I feel that it is this undertone that is now in the committee's position. Then I have to admit, as former chief of police, that it is both exciting and creative that the minority will have a police station online. After all, when you get into cyberspace, every citizen has to be a sheriff in the sense that citizens have to tell off. What the minority here wants is that the police should be available in such a practical way that there is no lawlessness on the cybernetic prairie either. There shall also those who find their joy or sorrow to walk there shall know that they may be present. It's nothing more eye-catching than the fact that what's obvious for a young generation must be a natural thing for the institutions as well. It's just – what do we call it – a technology adaptation minority is asking for. I think the Minister of Justice should take note of the proposal, because it is a way and a will to say that neither on the cybernetic steppe is it lawlessness. There is a sheriff present, and the citizens know where to turn when they have testimonies to bear, as well as what to do in the social spaces where we meet each other every day – in this room or elsewhere. In the name of the impatient spirit, I am voting for the minority's proposal on behalf of the Left. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Justice's challenging fight on the inside. What's the name? You can't say happiness, you can use the expression dirty fish!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e265	Thank you for your advice. It's quite obvious that we have common challenges. However, there is no doubt that the Government stands united in its work against this type of abuse which the proposers here propose to take action against. For the Government, the prevention of sexual abuse in general and against children is particularly one of the most important areas of action. This is also underlined in the Government's statement by Soria Moria. Suffering if, over the past 10–15 years, action has been taken successively to strengthen the position of children who are subjected to sexual abuse, etc., I nevertheless see the need for further improvements in several areas in this type of abuse and violence. And let me add: I see all the ideas, the recordings and suggestions are worth including in the debate. I also see the debate – and to the extent that the majority’s proposal – as not putting a stop to some good proposals, but it is a little about the process. Just that a lot has been done, I interpret as a broad connection to the work to improve the position of these victims we are talking about here. I can here briefly point to the Ministry of Children and Family Plan «Strategy against sexual and physical abuse against children [[2005-2009]] I note with satisfaction the minority's comment on support for the establishment of Barna's house as a more comprehensive offer to children who have been subjected to abuse or violence. The Storting has asked the Government to assess the establishment of a pilot project with Barna's house. This has been investigated and, at my discretion, put as much pressure on us as we can from the government team, among others. of course we have provided the necessary time for hearings, etc. However, Barna’s house is now absolutely under planning and ready to be launched during 2007 as a pilot project in line with the guidelines given by the Stortinget and with a view to better and more coordinated management of sexual abuse against children. I believe that such centres as the Barna's house can be, will also be important in terms of empowerment. A collaborative project such as Barna’s house, where several professionals are to work together to the best of the child, also requires clarification of the rules on professional secrecy and information obligations – I stress the latest – and an assessment of whether there is a need for regulatory changes, so that the obligation of professional secrecy is not unnecessary in the way of cooperation, whether it is well legally anchored or in this way only claimed by those in the situation. Such an assessment is now being carried out by the Ministry of Justice. I believe that there might be some of the most important things you can do not just to build a house, but that the house should actually have a real function for the environments and the victims that it should have function towards. There is a need for a broad approach and a high level of competence in several areas in order to further develop the response to abuse. As mentioned in my reply to the Judicial Committee of 10 May this year, I have set up a working group with extensive experience from several disciplines with a mandate to promote proposals to prevent Internet-related child abuse, including assessing actions mentioned by the minority of the Judicial Committee at the Innst. S. No 38 for 2006-2007. The working group shall pool knowledge on the use of the Internet by children and identify the extent to which children have experience in adult contacts, while also having dialogue with the drivers of the chat channels and other actors in the industry. Many of the recordings that come here, I think it is natural that this working group also assesses its work. The working group is about to finish its work and is scheduled to deliver its investigation to me just over the New Year. I look forward to that. I would therefore like to await the work group's investigation and proposals before considering such questions as a separate national competence centre for combating child abuse in accordance with the model of the English Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre. I would also like to mention that information for both children and parents about the use of the Internet and the prevention of child abuse is an important task. I want to take the initiative to launch an information campaign aimed at both children and their parents, and in this context will show that a successful campaign in this area has been undertaken in the United Kingdom. With regard to the question of the ‘grrooming’ paragraph, I see that the proposal by the minority makes a recommendation to us on the basis of the Riksadvokat’s assessments. As it is formulated in the setting, it is a little unclear to me what is the minority proposal – I allow myself to say it. But in such an important area where there are quite major legal challenges, which the representative Dørum also pointed to, I think it would be strange if you put such a lead on the legislative work in the department and in the government. I think it's important that we just get the freedom to evaluate all the hearings, and then the Stortinge when the law comes to treatment, evaluate what it's going to be like. So it's a proposal that I'm not going to follow further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e290	Several have mentioned the so-called SAFT project, which concerns the safe use of the Internet, and several have identified problems with the fact that the project is currently linked to the Media Authority. It is also a reality that the Ministry of the Church and Culture has shown considerable reluctance to discuss the future of this project. It is a reality that EU funding is ebbing out – I do not know if it is this year or early next year. There is a solid, good and thorough work done, and many of the parties to the project are now very concerned about what is going to happen here. I have just one question for the Council of State: Will he now take an initiative to reorganize the project, assess whether today's anchoring in the Media Authority is the most appropriate, and also get it into permanent funding? It cannot be that such an important project will die out, even if EU funding disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e299	Like the others who have spoken here today, I also have to say that I have too much sense of what is in the SAFT project. I think we have two challenges in relation to this. Firstly, it is to be financed and the second is to be anchored and organised. I cannot promise here today that I will bring with me the entire government that this will be anchored differently. But what I can promise is that this is a problem I will take with me in the further work in relation to, among other things. The effort, which we want to reinforce, against violence and abuse against children in general. I will take it up with the relevant government colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e306	I want to challenge the Council of State in terms of action. As an opposition politician, our present state council was known for being very two-point, quick to conclude with possible solutions. There was very rare doubt about where the current state council wanted to go. After changing jobs and becoming the Council of State, the creation of a working group has become a more traditional tool to which he refers. It is tempting to ask the Council of State if he misses old days, to use such a concept, in relation to having more progress on things, be clearer. And does the Council of State miss being able to be out earlier and give political signals about where he wants to be? Or is it that he feels comfortable that everything today needs to be wrapped up by setting up a working group by working group?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e315	If it had been the case that we had only reduced the working group by working group, I would not have been comfortable in the current situation. I am very comfortable sitting in government and could be involved in designing justice policy in Norway. Just in this field, I actually don't have a very bad conscience. One of the most important things we have to do, and we've been doing all year, is to design the representative that Dørum was in, rather difficult new laws that are going to cover, among other things. possible preparatory actions, a ‘grrooming’ paragraph. I cannot see with my best will that we have not had the progress with such a provision that such a new law would actually require. I told you that we'll get to Stortinget with as soon as you're done. That's what's attached to the law, as I think is exciting. When it comes to the issue of Barna's house, it's in the budget for next year, so we've delivered on it. We have delivered by concluding the consultation round, so there is no longer a working group, and this is to be implemented. In this way we actually think that it's good stiff.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e324	The Minister of Justice said he was very comfortable sitting in government, and I don't think anyone in this room has noticed anything else! So to the question, we're about to get a new special part of the penal code. There are some areas in which the Council of State will focus, for example, on what we are discussing today. increase of the penalty level of the special section?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e331	Now I'm going to be careful to exaggerate what we think in the new special part of the penal code. Against what was said by the representative Ellingen, there is also sometimes a need in justice policy to think completely. What kind of areas are we going to bet the most on? What are we going to criminalize? What are we going to deal with the strictest penalties, and what are we going to say less important? We know that the resources of the police and criminal justice system are limited. I believe that creating a new penal code will be a unique opportunity for the Storting to make an overall assessment, and you should be careful to conclude in advance. It says in the Soria Moria statement, and I am concerned that we should increase the level of penalties in relation to, among other things. serious rape, gross acts of violence, killings and morals. There's just this problem inside. So I think it's obvious that it'll be part of it. There may be several mechanisms here. It's a discussion about minimum penalties. It is a discussion of the extent to which penalties should be imposed, and also the extent to which we should give the most clear signals, including: in the processor of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e338	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e343	I'm just going to take up a little of what was said about the pedagogical problem we can have in relation to explaining some lawyers and lawyers what a ‘grrooming’ paragraph in the future will be. I think the reason why many lawyers struggle to benefit from such a “grrooming” paragraph is that, like very many adults, they don’t know what the Internet usage of children and youth is actually, and that some parents almost by chance discover that their child has developed sexuality when they are 25. Those who keep online know that children gradually develop a sexual interest and deliberately process them along the way, even if they are not mature for anything. The useful questions that we all have to ask when we're going to seek to influence and establish the cultures that are necessary for everyone in both police and prosecution authorities and in legal environments to understand what this is all about – not just design a law, but get it enforced too – are: How would you have reacted if this was your son or daughter? And not least: what if you had experienced a man driving around the quarter every day trying to give candy to your kid and trying to get him or her into the car? That's what this is actually about, just that it's happening on another arena. The pedagogical challenge has a parallel to the Data Storage Directive, which appears to slide straight through, and which will contribute to the extreme control of ordinary people in the control of telephones. Had you set up an inspector at all the mailboxes in the country and asked who you are, who you are going to send to, and what the letter contains, everyone would have reacted. This shows that jus and everyday life can be two very different things. So I think we have a very big pedagogical task for all of us sitting here, when we're going to work on getting the law passed and enforced that we require, that everyone understands the same thing that the Justice Committee understood when we were in London and were subjected to a conviction, which was marked by strong guarantees of legal certainty, but also for the sake of the children who have been otherwise "grroomed". In addition, it's extremely important that we don't forget that assault is actually not just happening via the web. It's going on in the good old-fashioned way -- it's bad to say it, but some people call it that -- via e.g. into the car with candy. It's actually so serious, so we shouldn't forget that the majority of the assaults are also going on in completely different ways than via the Internet. It's extremely important that we all take on this pedagogical task of raising parts of the legal segment that have a lot of good thoughts about how to get good legal texts, but that's not always completely within the reality of, for example, children and young people who use the Internet in a completely different way from their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 578]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e368	Document No 8:87 for 2005-2006 indicates that the Storting has adopted several different compensation schemes in the context of World War II, including: to Japanese prisoners. However, Norwegian war sailors who were imprisoned in Africa have not received any compensation from the Norwegian state. This injustice seeks to correct the proposal by the proposers. A number of Norwegian seafarers were held captive in Africa during World War II. During the summer of 1940, 26 Norwegian ships were detained in French colonies in North and West Africa. Over 700 Norwegians were interned. For many, it was almost two and a half years long imprisonment. In line with many other Northmen who were imprisoned during the war, many of the people involved in this matter have suffered physical and mental suffering and injuries of a significant nature as a result of the captivity of war. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, have a great deal of understanding and compassion for the sufferings that many of the ropes of war were subjected to during World War II. However, the majority believe that it has not been given that all those affected by difficult conditions during World War II should be granted a reasonable compensation. Reference to St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004. The right has its own proposal that they will probably comment and make for themselves. The Progress Party has noticed that several groupings have been awarded replacements, but the war ropes that were imprisoned in Africa during World War II do not come under any of these arrangements. The party of progress refers to the great and important efforts of our seafarers during World War II, and is of the opinion that this forgotten group should also come under a system of compensation for the torture and pangs they were subjected to during their captivity. I will then be allowed to present the proposal of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a compensation scheme for African prisoners during World War II.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e390	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e393	A brief explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party. We support the proposal from the Left, which has been taken up in the vote by the Progress Party. The comments of the majority are, of course, completely unlandishable, but I think the question here is whether we should perhaps raise ourselves a little above the very strict and formal and see that this may be a particular reason for extending the lavishness compensation scheme for this group, or get a special compensation scheme, as proposed by the proposers. The most important thing for us is that we show a condolences to a group that has been forgotten. There is also a line for us in relation to those who were in Japanese captivity, who the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen took up in the previous period in this room, and where there was a solution in collaboration with the Government. The time is short for those who can benefit from such a separate compensation scheme. That is why we also consider it necessary to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, even if we are in favour of the Right proposal, where we first get an investigation. But it's a good legal principle called intersection, and there might be reason to do it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e402	The proposers have undoubtedly put the spotlight on an injustice, and the Right would very much like to contribute to the equal treatment of Norwegian war ropes connected to Africa with other Northmen who felt the war directly on the body and who have subsequently received compensation. The injustice is as described here, in that Norwegian sailors who were taken captive in Africa have not been compensated for the disadvantage they actually suffered. The size has previously adopted several compensation schemes in connection with World War II. The time has now come to find an acceptable solution for a group of Norwegian seafarers — about 700 in the number — who were imprisoned in Africa during the last world war. Someone managed to escape, but most of them were imprisoned for two and a half years. The right supports the view of the proposers that there should be a reasonably high threshold for the use of an adapted cheap substitute scheme. On the other hand, there is no fundamental difference between the Nordics who were in Japanese captivity and those who were imprisoned in African countries. In the light of this, the Right has promoted its own proposal whereby compensation is to be granted either by the responsible States during the Second World War or by means of a compensation scheme in Norway for the suffering suffered by these seafarers. With this, I'm taking up the minority proposal from the Right. So we do not require long investigations, and I ask that the vote be put up so that the right-wing subsidiary can vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e413	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e416	The rapporteur has presented the views of the majority and minority in a factual way. It is also apparent from the observations that the majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, are not in favour of supporting the extension of the system of cheap pay to those imprisoned in Africa. After all, it can be seen that there is no support for people who have been subjected to abuse or who have suffered a significant overload to be guaranteed the rights associated with this in retrospect. But, of course, they must. What is important here is that on an individual basis, for example: be without afterwards, have the right to a disability pension, and some will be entitled to the grant of a war pension. Some will have received occupational injury compensation, or will have been accepted for health consequences due to occupational disease. This means that, in sum and on an individual basis, there has been an opportunity to assess each of those in Africa. What this question is about is whether to look at schemes collectively for the whole group, because it comes into a special position. I have experienced that discussion also in Finnmark, for example. in the case of those who were in the Alta Battalion and to whom they were exposed. What you quickly see when you start to evaluate it professionally is how different it may have been for the different, and that there will be individual assessments that must be the basis for what kind of rights the individual should have. It is important to stress that there is no resistance from the majority to fair treatment. However, because the situation may differ from one to the next, one has to go into reality and consider them in terms of the benefits to be provided. The regulatory framework thus has a number of mechanisms linked to the need to ensure that individuals, e.g.: economic, does not get into a disaster if you become destitute because of the actions you were exposed to during World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e425	I was born in 1943, so the people here have experienced, I've only read about. I have been employed in and am still employed with leave from the Church's Bymission. In that context, I met a place near Oslo at a home for war sailors, for which I fought. I just have to admit that what I then experienced, and not least experienced the way of society to see people, made me a little depressed. I wasn't dismayed because of the people, because they lived their lives. I was depressed because of society. In fact, I ended up in the situation around 1990 that I had to fight to let these people live their lives without being subjected to a social abuser. When I express it that way, there's some intensity in it. But it was just seeing people for what they were. Here I am talking about people who were heavily harmed by alcohol. That's not the theme of the group today. I don't know the people each. But we are approaching the time when there is almost no longer any time left after World War II. It's getting fewer and fewer of them. We've bit by bit, as we've had to see ourselves in the mirror, as a community and as an individual, doing things without comparing groups. We made the Jewish settlement. We took the situation for the Sami and the women who lost school during the war. We took the settlement for taters and gypsies. We took the war children, that is, the children of German soldiers and Norwegian women. Children would not suffer. Former Major Finn Kristian Marthinsen took up the situation for those in Japanese captivity during the war. I have to admit that in this case it struck me like a fist in the diaphragm when I became familiar with the group. I think I have to say it so personally. I'm aware of what's going to happen here today. It is that the majority is voting down a minority proposal from the entire opposition. I am also aware that we have now come up with a cheap substitute system that makes it extremely difficult for the Storting in many ways to exercise a judgement. But it's probably the path that's left for them. I'm happy to, for example. The representative Ballo now stated that he also saw that people here might have been through something. I think there was something in it. I'm not going to use this pulpit to drive polemics against anyone. Nor shall I use it to say anything but that I think it would have been a difficult matter for Norwegian society to recognize that the war was a world war after 1939. We know that much of the Norwegian fleet was absolutely crucial, especially with supplies to the United Kingdom, because the Western powers won. Democracy won against Nazism and fascism. As for those who were in the camps of the Vichy regime, which was a kind of cooperation state for Nazi Germany, I feel, with the intensity of being born as a result of the battle of Stalingrad, and as one of those who are close to the last surviving testimonies of time, that with a very good conscience I promoted this proposal. I have some feelings here, and I'm glad the President has allowed me to present it in a calm manner. The proposal is there. It speaks for what it is. Let me also in deep thought say that the sea is no joke. Without a comparison, the Stortinget chose to find a solution in the context of the “Development Senior” – which I think was an honest matter – and both government and big business are willing to go through the “Western” loss. In Norway, we have often had deep respect for what has happened in connection with the sea. It's been very important to our country. On that basis, I guess you should try to find a solution for the people you're talking about here. There are not many left alive, and the time witnesses are getting fewer and fewer. I am pleased that the proposal has been promoted by the Progress Party of the Committee. I am pleased that the Right subsidiary supports the proposal and that the Christian People's Party has said that they will support it today in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e448	Like the previous speaker, I believe that this matter is not simple, and it deserves the Government to comment on the issue, because the conclusion behind it does not mean that we underestimate the suffering that this group was also suffering during World War II. Nor are we underestimating the dilemma that the representative of Dørum raised in his speech about the challenge that we all face in the way of society to meet such groups of people. The outcome of the handling of the matter today does not at all relieve us of any responsibility in relation to how we as society meet such groups of people, how we view them, and how we make life the best possible after such a traumatic event that they were exposed to. Many people, in the rest of the world and in Norway, were subjected to harsh and difficult stresses during World War II. In some cases, the Norwegian State has provided financial compensation for experiences during the war. Among other things, compensation has been granted to Norwegian citizens who were in Japanese captivity, as has been pointed out, and to surviving Norwegian Jews and their survivors for the injustice committed against them and their families during the war. I have a great deal of understanding and compassion for the suffering of the ropes of war that were imprisoned in Africa. However, it has not been given that all those affected by difficult conditions during World War II should be granted a reasonable compensation or fall within arrangements outlined here. In this respect, I would like to point out that a cross-ministerial working group has assessed an overall approach to dealing with claims for compensation for groups in society. The report of the Working Group has been submitted to the Stortinget in St.meld. No 44 for 2003–04 — i.e. under the previous government — to which the Stortinget has joined. In cases where the State has previously provided compensation for experiences during World War II, there have been particular circumstances. This does not mean that we underestimate other types of relationships that give reason to look at them in a different way or that can be met in relation to other needs. It was in St. Prp. No 67 for 2000-2001, compensation for Norwegian nationals who were imprisoned in Japan during World War II, as shown by the fact that Norway and the other allies, in the context of the peace agreement of 8 September 1951, had waived the right to claim compensation from Japan, and that there was therefore no basis of international law for the Norwegian State to claim compensation on behalf of former Norwegian prisoners of war or interned. There is reason to stress, however, that the Government found that the agreement should not have a decisive effect on the granting of compensation, since Norway was not obliged to compensate the individual individuals for such an agreement. On the other hand, it was pointed out that through the peace agreement the Norwegian State had de facto deprived these persons of the opportunity to receive compensation from Japan. Although they were not formally excluded from the promotion of individual claims, this was nevertheless not realistic. In St. prp. No 82 for 1997-1998, A historical and moral settlement with the treatment in Norway of the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II, the then government presented its proposals for settlement to Norwegian Jews. The settlement was meant to be a confession and an apology from the Norwegian state against surviving Norwegian Jews and their survivors for the injustice committed against them and their families during World War II. The Norwegian State under the Quisling regime took part in the anti-Jewish measures taken against the Jews. The particular feature of the case was that it was considered that there was a legal basis for compensation, i.e. a basis of liability, for financial loss and an adequate causal link between the damage and the loss. It was disregarded that the limitation periods had been exceeded. In St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004, the compensation scheme for children of war and compensation schemes for Roma/taters and elderly women suffering from educational injury, which we had in place, and which came under the previous government, a general assessment has been given of how to deal with future demands from different groups. It has been stated that, as a starting point, there should be a high threshold for extending the cheap compensation scheme and that the payment of cash to individuals from the public, outside the social security system and without the existence of legal liability should continue to be considered relatively exceptional. In this respect, I would like to point out that the general rule in the case of cheap substitutes is that the public has had an influence on the incident and can be blamed. I can't see that the public had any influence on the incident in the present case. In comparison, the State had not established any influence on the damage itself in Japan either, but in that case the possibility of repairing the damage through compensation had been made more difficult. These are some of the difficult assessments that need to be taken into account in such difficult issues as this. The establishment of special schemes creates expectations about special schemes also for other groups. In this respect, the principle of equality requires the establishment of additional special arrangements for groups with a requirement of per. today is not met by current arrangements for similar cases. However, such developments may have a precedent effect which is not transparent. In this respect, I would like to point out that it has not been established whether there are other groups of persons who were interned abroad during World War II and who should be given the opportunity to obtain compensation. Furthermore, it is possible that persons who had similar experiences in Norway would promote claims as a result of the establishment of such a scheme. In view of the above — difficult assessments, but nevertheless an attempt by the Storting and the previous government to create some standards for such settlement — I am of the opinion that there are no such factors in the case that the cheap compensation scheme should be adapted in order for this group to seek compensation from the Norwegian State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e474	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 579]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e482	We're going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e505	During the debate, Mr Horne presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e568	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right At the request of the representative Elisabeth Aspaker, the President will propose that a vote be taken first on the proposal of the Right and then, alternatively, between the proposal of the Progress Party and the vote, so that the Right may vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Progress Party, which she has requested. - It's passed. The proposal from the Right reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate how to secure compensation for the suffering suffered by African prisoners during World War II either from the responsible States during World War II or through a compensation scheme in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e598	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a compensation scheme for African prisoners during World War II.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23.ana.ud969e622	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
