ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e28	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 876]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e44	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e53	I refer to the proposal by Mr Solberg, Mr Lönning, Mr Engeset and Mr Höie. Already today, there is a significant shortage of skilled workers in the health and care sector, and the Committee sees that this problem will be exacerbated in the coming years. It's not just the number of older people who are growing, but we see that more and more people are getting very old. These are people who often have a complex form of disease and who have chronic disorders that span many years. At the same time, we see that there is also an increase in the need for domestic care aimed at younger caregivers and disabled people. Increases in diseases such as diabetes, muscle and skeletal disorders, COPD, cancer, psychiatric disorders and drug dependence require special competence among health professionals. There's a desperate need for more highly qualified people, and it's urgent. Therefore, the proposal for a competence plan does not meet any counter-representation in the Committee. It underlines the importance of seeing the link between education, professional development and research and that those who choose to work in this field must be given the opportunity to remain professionally up-to-date and provide room for alternative career paths with pay after work. The proposers mention a number of good actions in the education and labour market sector which they believe can be used to provide more qualified people. Proposalers also stress that it is important to keep those working in health and care professions, and mention more measures in the labour market that they believe can be used to achieve this. The majority of the Committee, members of the opposition parties, believe that there is a gap between the expectations created by the Government for increased efforts to train health professionals on the one hand and the practical arrangements on the other. These parties point to the fact that a clean-up of matters in the vocational school sector has still not been established, and assume that the Government of Spring will propose a vocational school law which also contributes to the real financing of health schools. Vocational education will play a key role, and the Government is responsible for contributing to a quality improvement in nursing training. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, also believe that the capacity of geriatric specialists in hospitals needs to be increased. Last week we were able to read the results of a new study that showed that old patients who are being treated in their own Geriatric wards in hospitals get better health and manage in their own homes much longer after a hospital stay. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have stressed that the 10 000 new annual works for the care of the elderly in the municipalities are permanent. This means that strengthening the other nursing and care positions must be established in the municipalities to meet the needs, and it must be added to them. This majority refers to the fact that, in 2015, the lifting of skills, the increase of job breaks to full-time, part-time and continuing training will be good measures to increase recruitment and to maintain the labour force. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party are doubtful about the emphasis being placed on increased labour migration by the proposers and would point out that there is considerable unused capacity by increasing job breaks, new recruitment and by pursuing a good senior policy. The majority of the Committee, the members of the opposition parties, will point to the need to strengthen the educational institutions in the health and care sectors and to strengthen research in geriatrics, and are critical that the Government has both reduced support for private colleges that train health professionals and the funding for research. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, the number of nursing and care positions has increased in the last ten years by almost twice what the Government has as its objective — talking about 10,000 new annual works from 2004 to 2009. In the opinion of the majority, the number of nursing and care positions in municipalities needs to be increased far beyond the planned 10000 annual works in order to meet the needs of the coming years. This can be done by offering more full-time jobs, removing special age limits and facilitating more people to work in the care professions over a longer period of time. Furthermore, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party believe that the proposal to ensure more flexible working time arrangements and to facilitate the establishment of several providers of care services will contribute to a better use of resources in the care sector. In order to ensure the implementation of the many important objectives of the plan, the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right say that the plan must be followed up financially. With this I would like to address the proposal by the minority, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e81	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e84	First of all, I would like to commend the proposers for a comprehensive, creative and concrete proposal for a competence plan to recruit more qualified workers for the care sector. Yes, the proposal is far more comprehensive and concrete than the Government's plan, the Competence Plan 2015, which is part of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning. I believe that the few measures proposed by the Government will not be sufficient to address the major challenges facing us in the care sector in the future. Everyone agrees that one of the needs is to recruit more people to take different levels of health education. This is also pointed out in the Government's plan, the Competence Plan 2015. The more incomprehensible it is that the same government for the second consecutive year proposes cutbacks in the allocations to higher education institutions that actually educate those groups for which this is a screaming need. It is gratifying that people in Norway are living longer and longer. Luckily, most people are doing their own thing. Some people may just need a little help with everyday life's tasks, and others need social measures. However, a large group will need more comprehensive healthcare than before, both medically and nursingly. Today, on average, hospital residents have four different diagnoses, which of course will require highly qualified staff. We will need far more geriatric doctors, more nurses with advanced education in geriatrics, aging, palliative care, which is care at the end of life, etc. We will need far more help nurses and health professionals with continuing training in geriatry. All of this requires that we look at educational capacity, on the content and length of education, on the recruitment of education, etc. Let me take some issues within each of these types of education that may need to be considered: Geriatric training for doctors is very extensive. As I understand it, doctors must first go through intern medicine specialty before they or he can take geriatric training. Other countries have shorter courses of education, with some other content, which it may be worth looking at. In the case of geriatric training for nurses, it is too short for it to be eligible for university education. This in itself can make this particular education less attractive compared to others. This is also important to assess. In the case of continuing education at the post-secondary level, I have heard that it is more or less at risk in many of the counties. It has to be activated. The possibility of continuing training can be crucial when people choose their first training. This should find its solution. I believe that this proposal for a representative should follow the work of Mr St.meld. No 25, to be released on 20 February next year. We're going to have hearings for this announcement in December this year, and I expect that valuable recordings will come in this area also during the hearings. I believe that most of the proposals in the proposal for a representative are very good, but I cannot support them at this stage. I therefore agree with the majority that the proposals should be assessed and proposed in the context of the Committee's examination of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning — this in order to ensure a comprehensive treatment of how competences in healthcare can be strengthened in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e109	The health sector is distinguished in today’s Norwegian society by an unusually low proportion of fully skilled labour, or – expressed in the other way – an unusually high proportion of non-skilled labour. It's a cross of thought in many respects, because it was to be expected that if there was any area where society should give priority to providing skilled labour, it was this very area. There might be a lot of reasons why things have evolved this way. A nearby explanation is that the need for labour has increased rapidly and will increase even faster in the years to come, and that, therefore, it is difficult to keep up with the need for skilled labour through education and training. Another possible explanation may be that there is a need for very different types of skills, that there are many different levels of education systems involved in this context, and that it is therefore difficult to get coordinated efforts to recruit skilled labour. It may also be related to the fact that for some years we have been entering a situation where the labour market is generally under pressure and where the demand for labour from other sectors is stronger than the demand from the care sector. Whatever the explanation, it is the opinion of the rapporteurs that this is urgent, and that is why we have put forward the proposal. There is an urgent need to provide the necessary overview, and there is an urgent need to draw up an overall national recruitment plan to ensure that, in the foreseeable future, we have a situation that is significantly better than the situation we have today. That is to say, we have a situation where the proportion of fully skilled labour is at the level of what applies to most other sectors of Norwegian society. It points out that the Committee is working on the report on the care sector, and a majority in the Committee would point out that it would be natural to examine the proposals contained in the proposal for a regulation in the context of the review of the notification. I agree. At the same time, I cannot see that there are any reasons why the Committee could not, at this stage, give the Government the task of preparing a satisfactory overall recruitment plan. It is quite clear that such a plan does not lie in the notification, and it is not reasonable for the Committee, when examining a comprehensive document, to undertake to do so. The Committee has no basis for that. So you're going to sit back with the question. Even when we get there that we're going to deal with the big news, it'll be up to the committee to decide whether it wants to give the government this mission or not. If you think that the assignment is necessary to give, you've been playing time by not taking your point of view here and now. It has been repeatedly pointed out – and also pointed out by the majority in the Committee’s vote – that the 10,000 year olds now in the Norwegian political debate for a year and a half are not responding to this challenge. As long as you are not willing to clarify what kind of annual work, with what competence and how the proportions between the different categories of health workers should look, the 10,000 annual works are not a response to anything. It is also pointed out in the setting that the crop that will be per. years in the five-year period covered by the Government, with the 10,000 annual works, would, if implemented, be significantly lower — yes significantly lower — than the average growth has been over the last ten years, i.e. Nor is the 10 000 annual works quantitatively almost an answer to the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e128	We in SV believe that there are many good proposals in the proposal for a representative from the Right. At the same time, I have to say that there are two things that are a little strange. One is that we could not deal with them in the context of the care notification that we have for consideration in the committee, where we are given ample opportunity to discuss exactly what the representative Wohnung was concerned about, and where we will also get good input from many organisations. The second is that the right did not take the opportunity to implement the proposals when they themselves were in government. I think it's a little strange to hear the tone of the representative's salary, because when he places so much emphasis on the urgency of this, it's very strange that it wasn't implemented in the four years when the Right had both the Minister of Health, partly, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, and also the Minister of Finance. As a matter of fact, it might be tempting to ask whether it was the Christian People's Party or the Left that at the time stood in the way of these proposals being implemented, or whether it was because it was tax-free for those who already had the most, who were at the top of the agenda. SV is looking forward to processing your caregivers. It is an important message, because it is too bad for the care sector in the municipalities. Four years of right-wing domination did not improve the situation; the local economy was forced to give way to ever-new tax havens. For us, it has been important to correct this bias, but much more is needed than a strengthened local economy. SV very much agrees with the intentions of the representatives behind this proposal. Higher competences are definitely important to ensure a good care sector, in order to ensure recruitment and increased status in the profession. In addition, there is a need for a settlement with the number of part-time positions in the municipalities and with the stop-clock mentality that has a wide range of locations, not least with the support of the Right Sea. The Nursing Communication outlines several actions to meet the challenges of care: the number of apprenticeships and the proportion of higher education will be increased, real skills assessments and recruitment campaigns will be carried out, further education through the VET system will be ensured, the use of part-time will be reduced, management will be invested – which is what is really needed – and the improvement of the working environment. In addition, further attention should be paid to educational nursing homes, just to mention something. Thus, this government is not leaning back and thinking that it is not urgent to implement a good deal of action in this sector – on the contrary. This is exactly why the message has been submitted. So I think in essence that the post to the representative's salary appeared in a strange light. But at least we're looking forward to the discussions we'll have when we're going to deal with the care message. I also take note that the Christian People's Party has decided to support the fact that we are going to take them in the context of that treatment, which is a unique opportunity to have a wide discussion on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e143	I also wonder how busy some of those who were in government during the previous period have suddenly got it to do something and to make a commitment to competence in this area. The government has promoted a big message to be heard a little before Christmas, which will be discussed here in January-February of the month, where we will have plenty of opportunity to finish the course in the future. Some have said that this message is too little concrete. People should think so. What the government has said, and as the Center Party actually believes is very important, is that all parties should be invited to participate and create a good care for the elderly for the future. In fact, I think it is good that the government does not put on the table a document where everything has been cleared in advance, but just invites the Stortinget to deal with and be open to concrete and good suggestions that had to come. I have to say I have been surprised this last autumn in meeting with the care of the elderly somewhere around the country. I must really stress that there must be a lot of force to do before it shines out of this care. In previous articles in this case today, something has been said about local economy and something about what happened in the previous period. I really believe that there is a lot to take back before there are enough hands and sufficient quality in the care services around. In meeting the local health service in Right-Handed Bergen, for example, I experience a lack of professionalism in the service, a lack of communication with them, a lack of coordination and a lack of quality assurance. I have to say that in meeting the care services, I have actually been surprised. After talking to many relatives around, one sees that in many municipalities there is actually a lot to do before the care services work well enough. I'm, as part of the government parties, honest enough to say this. I hope that even more people can be honest enough to say this, and that we can stand together in the Stortingen to create a better care for the elderly. I believe, as I said, that the Government has provided a good basis for getting this done through St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006. I think I'm giving up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e154	I'm going to take the facts into account when I'm going to keep my post, I'm not going to try on any polemics. The number of older people over 80 will almost double over the next 35 years. Only maintaining today's standard of care and care means that the number of annual works has to be more than doubled. If we're going to increase the standard, which is probably everybody's wish, then the number of annual works in this sector will have to increase much more than a doubling, maybe we'll have to increase by 250,000. We're talking about giant numbers over the next 30-40 years. And if we can disagree about many things in this room, we're at least a few that we're facing a huge challenge in the care sector. The left-hand side doesn't think it'll be enough just to think about the work of the year and hands. That is why we need to focus more on increasing the competence of those working in the sector, and that is exactly what the Right – Left – representative proposal focuses on, and we need to address the challenge that everyone sees coming. As the representative on the payroll said, it's urgent. I don't think we need to disagree that it's urgent. The left believes that empowerment may be the most important key to resolving the future care challenges. In addition, it must facilitate the provision of skilled workers. We have heard that it is very much in part-time settings, especially in the health care profession. We know that they even want to expand their settings, so here we have a huge labour potential that we need to find a better solution for than the current situation. The left also suggests that more attention should be paid to home services. The cost of home-based care is only a small fraction of the cost of a health care facility. But also those who work in that sector, in the home services sector, must of course have high and appropriate skills. It is also important that the professional status of this group be given a lift. We think that's an important element for recruiting this group. The challenges associated with providing sufficient labour to maintain and expand supply in the care sector and other welfare services in the future are so great that there will be a need for labour migration. The committee has come up with that. What I want to say in addition to what the committee says about this is that we in the Left think that it should not be seen as any sleep cushion that we can pick up someone from abroad. The country's most important task, which is to care for its own elderly and caring people, must be primarily solved by its own labour force. Therefore, there must be a strong and strong focus on recruiting qualified workers, on which this proposal is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e171	Document No The 8 proposal makes it visible that there is a cross-political consensus that the municipal health and care sector is facing major challenges in the future, both in terms of capacity and competence. We agree, I think, among other things. that the sector needs more hands, that we need to maintain and provide opportunities for continuing training for those already working in the sector, that the sector is too numerous for unskilled workers, and that the sector needs more highly skilled people. It is then that this government has done a lot in a year, even though the representative is trying to produce it in a different way. The government has developed a new competence and recruitment plan for municipal health and care services. We have called it the Competence Lift 2015. As is well known, these measures are mentioned in the major communication currently being discussed by the Committee. We have looked at the experience of previous recruitment plans for the sector and tried to adapt the actions of the Competitiveness Pact to the challenges we are facing today. The commitment to competence, as we propose, consists of a four-year rolling action programme with effect from 2007 to be updated annually during the planning period until 2015. The long-term strategy is to exploit the demographically stable period of the next 15 years to increase the level of education in the municipal health and care sector, so that municipalities have good professionals in the service when the needs increase too fully. The objectives of the Competence Plan for the next few years are: increasing the number of persons employed in the care sector by 10,000 new annual works, with relevant vocational training increasing the level of education and training in care services, inter alia. by facilitating the entry of more than one higher education institution to ensure the availability of healthcare professionals with around 4500 every year access to a wide range of people with different backgrounds in order to obtain a wider range of professional services to strengthen guidance, internal training and continuing training. As you know, the government has proposed 152 million. kr to the Competence Lift, where the main measures are: to ensure educational places for pupils who are trained as health professionals to qualify health and care professionals who do not have health and social education, to decentralise health professionals to decentralise several higher education students in higher education, through the vocational education system to further train personnel with the higher education management initiative ‘Good to people in first-line education’, to provide care at the end of life and to relieve treatment to increase the competence of the ethics recruitment campaign to mention something In addition to these measures, the 2007 NSP and the 2007 State budget indicate that we have proposed strengthening research on care services by 5 million. kr. Here we also have extensive cooperation. with the Norwegian Pensioner Association. We have also taken the necessary steps to strengthen medical care in hospitals. And we're going to present a separate action plan for specialist health care for the elderly over the next year. The government believes that local variations and needs should be largely based on how to design services in the future. In this context, I would like to mention the cooperation agreement on quality development in health care, where the Municipalities' Central Association and the Government agree on a number of important issues: increasing the proportion of higher education, facilitating the reduction of the use of part-time jobs in the sector and strengthening the leadership functions in the sector. So to the question of labour immigration. Here, I would like to express a somewhat different view than what appears in Document No. The 8th proposal. The number of older people is increasing worldwide, and the vast majority of countries — including in Europe — will have deficits on health and social workers in the coming years. I believe, therefore, that we cannot commit to an active recruitment policy where we brave other countries — especially the poor countries — for the necessary personnel. The main goal must be to ensure that we train the health and social personnel that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e237	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e241	I do not think there is any political disagreement in the issue raised by the proposal. We all see the need and want good solutions. This is also illuminated in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, where there is both evidence and action. The question is, I guess, why the opposition has a lot to say about this now and does not come back to that debate with all the proposals that I think are good too. We know that the care sector needs people. We know they need professionals. Everyone agrees that you need a carpenter, it's okay that he can snort. The same applies in the health sector. If we need help when we're at the weakest, we need professional insight into what you're doing, why you're doing it, and when you're going to put the measures in place. It will save society unnecessary hospitalization and save the individual for unnecessary pain and provide a better everyday life. It's also frustrating for the person who works, to have a job that you really don't know about. There are many measures that need to be taken, and this is something the proposers also say. The 2015 Competence Plan will be one action to improve this, where, by being active in several arenas, we will be able to achieve the target of 10,000 more annual works. Learning places, decentralisation of higher education provision, teaching homes and recruitment campaigns will be other measures that can help. Campaigns to get more men into care, to show young people how important it is to work with and for people, are something we can put in at an early stage in school-oriented interventions. Creating professional environments in care, creating room for development and creating opportunities for continuing training could also make working in care more attractive. We need to give the professions a status where the aim is to ensure a better service for those who need help. It is also important to raise the level of competence with regard to the basic ethical ideas surrounding this with care, and it also says something about the bigotry message. The unskilled are doing a great job today. We hadn't made it without that effort, and they actually deserve to get this necessary promise in their skills, so that they can do their job even better. We can do that by following up St.meld. No 25-digit number The goal must also be that those who want to work full-time will have that opportunity. Many annual works would be filled if they were completed. We will be able to do this through a strengthened local economy, and with an even better local economy, even more people will be able to do so. The possibility of part-time also needs to be present, of course, so that we have a varied working life that is adapted to both the working capacity and the living situation of the individual. Flexible solutions with good competence are something we can work for, to get the most of them to work in care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e256	On the basis of the proposal and the committee's position, I really did not expect this to be a reprisal on the election campaign a year and a half ago, but I note that there are some people who are busy driving that reprice. I think it is limited to the pleasure of the users of the healthcare sector in this country. In general, used election campaigns are one of the most suspicious things there is. It must be allowed to remind both the representative of Mr Schjärlaaen and the representative of Mr Thorkildsen that it was the previous government that started work on the communication on which the Committee is now working and that work had come a long way. What was meant at the time was clearly to focus the qualitative aspects more strongly than the quantitative ones, because we have had a lot of shippertacks in the care sector over the years, all of which have shared the fact that they have been dealing with quantitative quantities, not qualitative quantities. That is why work was started on a quality report on the care sector. The background to the proposal we are considering today is that all experience shows that the key to quality is competence. In the absence of competence, establishing the required quality is a very, very difficult project. It doesn't have to be any more complicated. Then I record the sending of double signals both from the government council and from figures from the government parties. On the one hand, you praise the proposal and say that it is good, and on the other hand, you say that it is untimely that it travels. I can promise that the proposals will follow the load in the Committee's further consideration of the care communication. The position of the majority of the Committee is not to reject the proposal, but to attach it to the minutes. It has to be seen that there is a substantial content in the proposals that it is worth taking further, if you are interested in the users – well to note – of the care services in this country. I predict that we will have ample opportunity to return to the elements of what is called the Competence Lift 2015. Let me just make it clear here and now that I have nothing against any of the goals that are set there, but what I want is the operationalization of how to achieve the goals. There, I don't think we're going to get away from any of the components, nor from picking up labour from our neighboring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e267	It was the representative of the municipality that also made me take the floor one more time, and the background was his negative characteristics of the municipality of Bergen and the care of the elderly that takes place there. As I understood it, he went very far in travelling a type of criticism against the staff as well. It's clear that we're not going to form a glossy image. But it may be a little dangerous to generalise and say that a municipality as large as Bergen has a very poor and unqualified staff group – I don't remember exactly the expression he used. I want to take an example. One of my close relatives lived in a huge nursing home in Bergen for two and a half years before she died. For her, it led to an existence from insecurity to security. Actually, it took some time to get there. I think maybe the problem many people are struggling with today is that it often takes too much time before you get help. Many people don't get enough help, and many people may not get enough content in the help they get. I think it could happen anywhere. I believe that we from this pulpit should at least be careful to characterise individual municipalities and individual employees in municipalities, or generally personnel in municipalities, who do not have competence, even though of course we are both in St.meld. No 25 and the competence plan say we need more competence. But there is also a good deal of competence. Many municipalities, including Bergen, have examples of very good care policies for the elderly, both inside and outside hospitals, from which we have learned, and which are also mentioned in some places, both in the notification and in other documents. I needed to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e278	It's dangerous to generalize. My opinion is not to generalize. But it's actually important that you have systems that guarantee good quality, regardless of whether you have home care, whether you're in a nursing home or the like. This is part of what I experience getting messages about, and that certainly also Laila Bavøy, when she encounters the fight for the elderly and many others in Bergen, is told about what works, and what does not work. I also believe that the representative Davøy, as she has stated earlier, agrees that there are many unresolved tasks related to getting the care of the elderly to work around. I want to repeat what I said earlier that people are missing as well. The government has high ambitions for several annual work in the care of the elderly. I am glad that the proposers actually see the need for more. But I want to, like the Council of State, ask questions about whether it is right to take qualified staff from other countries, who also need to be able to get our old age care to work. In fact, I think it's important that a good recruiter here to the country, that one gets higher quality of education, and that we concentrate on it first and foremost. Then the representative says Wage that it seems like there's some old gutter from the election campaign we're coming with. I am surprised that the representative Wage, and the Right, who recently sat in the government offices, have such an incredible need to highlight matters in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e287	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e303	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e312	The following proposals are presented in this document: ‘The size asks the Government to ensure that there is consistency between the State restrictions on sales times for beer and other alcoholic beverages with a volume percentage between 2,5 and 4.7 and general opening times for shops in Norway on weekdays.’ In other words, sales of less alcoholic beverages should be possible during the opening hours of the shops if the individual municipality so wishes. Under the alcohol law, municipalities are obliged to draw up an alcohol policy action plan, which is to be a central instrument for the overall treatment of alcohol policy issues in the municipality. In addition, the municipal system for the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages shall also contribute to the achievement of the national objectives of the alcohol policy. This also applies to the representatives of Skjellaaen and Davøy and to Bergen city. In this case, the Committee is divided into two groups. As the rapporteur, I expect the majority in the Committee to present their views on the matter, so that I can use my time to present the views of the minority, that is. The party of progress, the right and the left. It is amazing that the Stortinget imposes on the municipalities both the appropriations and the follow-up to national targets in the alcohol policy, while the Stortinget does not give the municipalities the opportunity to determine the selling hours of alcoholic beverages, so that they could have been coordinated with the opening hours of the shops. By giving the municipalities this right, Stortinget would give the municipalities real influence and thereby strengthen local democracy. In other words, Stortinget could here give the municipalities and the inhabitants a great degree of right of codecision. It makes no sense for municipalities, on the one hand, to be responsible for the follow-up and exercise of the alcohol policy, but not to be allowed to decide the opening time. Here we are at the heart of the matter. You don't want the municipalities to have that right, because in many cases you will transfer more real user power to the individual person. The party also wants to point out that there is clearly a link between excessive charges on legally negotiable alcohol, lack of availability and crime related to smuggling. I almost have to be allowed to ask, who is between 2.5 pst and 4.7 pst. from the store most harmful for? Is it most harmful to those who have poor advice, because they don't see themselves equally fit to go to a pub? Or is it less harmful to those who have good advice, for for them, in any case, will availability be near at all times? The minority in the Committee agrees that the least possible harm resulting from drug use should be sought, in line with the fact that we want the least possible damage and health problems for other reasons. However, it must be pointed out that there is a distinction between use and abuse. It is also amazing that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are unable to put Norwegian alcohol policy into a wider context, where adaptation to Europe and other countries is natural, and must be implemented. It must be an extreme experience for a tourist in Norway that legal sales goods are illegal in one minute and that no people are able to take responsibility for their own actions in the same minute. This responsibility does not want today's government and the Christian People's Party to give it to the individual in Norway. In other words, there are some politicians who are so concerned about detailing and deciding about the lives of others that they are sounding out: of course, we know better than most people what most people have good at. Are we going to be totally lepers on our mountain? In fact, with the policy that is now being pursued, where we are so good at improving our knowledge, we are never going to harmonise our policy with that of the other Nordic countries, rather Europe. We're going to be a commoner in the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e343	Should the representative make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e346	I took that up in the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e351	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e354	We are very pleased that there is a solid majority in the Stortinget who do not wish to endorse the proposal for a representative in Document No. 8:108 for 2005-2006. As can be seen from the case, the majority argue that the proposers wish to adapt the regulation of the alcohol law on the selling times for beer and other alcoholic beverages by volume between 2.5 and 4.7 to the opening times by law of public holidays and holiday peace. This means that municipalities cannot limit the sale time for beer and other alcoholic beverages between 2,5 and 4,7 % vol. If the proposal were to be adopted, it would theoretically be possible to sell beer in the store 24 hours a day, with the exception of Sundays and holidays. Many grocery stores have been open until 9.00 p.m. 23, seas about 24-hour shops are not common. It could be a matter of time. Let me put it this way: we're not hanging heads in the alcohol policy. As they did during the Bondevik government, more and more municipalities are going to be sold on the pole. In fact, we believe that people out in District Norway should have reasonable access to Polish goods. But there is every reason to believe that the proposal to extend the opening hours, if adopted, would lead to a relatively large increase in the sales time for beer, and thus to an increase in consumption. We believe that it is not logical for customers that beer and bread should have the same opening time. We don't think there's any evidence to claim it. We don't think there's a need for that either. It may be annoying to get to the cash register with four darts that you have to put back, but we have to have more ambitions in alcohol policy than to make that a problem. In a study conducted by SIRUS, a total of 63 pst. supports today's alcohol policy, and the entire 64 pst. support the alcohol policy of its own municipality. It may seem that the proposers want to help the shops because it is a problem to have different selling times for beer than for groceries. Then I think the reason at best is thin. If there is a difference between the opening time legislation and the rules of the alcohol law that are the problem, we should like to discuss whether we should adapt the opening time of the shops to the rules of the alcohol law. But we think it must be the desire to make alcohol more available that is the driving force behind this proposal. It is not compatible with good health policy. There is a worrying increase in the consumption of alcohol by the North. Most people are most concerned with the abuse of other drugs that are more visible in the street picture and are not aware of the adverse effects of alcohol. There's a lot of numerical material that makes it visible. On a national basis, police surveys show that 60–80 pst. of all violence is alcohol-related. A study on who suffers from heavy alcohol consumption — I refer to Rossow and Lund — shows that 40 pst. they have been exposed to landfills in the last year, i.e. almost 1.5 million people over the age of 15. Many of the plagues are, in fact, so-called petty plagues, such as ruined sleep at night, emancipation, threats, etc. But many of them are serious. That's the kids. I think it's natural to have a very special focus on children now in Christmastime, and because we're approaching Christmastime. I think we know about all the kids who care about the Christmas celebration because of the family's alcohol consumption. We know enough about violence. We probably know about damage and abuse. We probably know about extensive research that points to the link between availability of alcohol, alcohol consumption and alcohol damage. I am pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party do not support this proposal. We are amazed at the Right and Left in this matter, especially because it says to read in a comment in the setting of the Health Budget, which we will deal with in a few days: ‘Alcohol is still the drug that causes most problems, such as premature death, sickness, violence, crime and high health expenditure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e379	I have to respectfully admit that the post we just heard was a special post, given that it came from a representative here in the Stortinget representing a government that has opened up 100 new wine monopoly sales. I have to say that it's quite special, considering what she put on in her post. So to the matter. The public should not intervene in the sphere and free choice of individuals, other than in very special situations. The starting point is that alcoholic beer up to 4.7 pst. a legal product is allowed to be sold in the retail trade, but only in parts of the time when the grocery store is open. In very many municipalities where grocery shops are open to e.g. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 21 a.m. or 21 a.m. 22, pull a tarpaulin over the crates with beer at 2:00 p.m. 20. Beer purchased after 8 p.m. 20 is illegal and harmful, must know. Then the foreman's clumsy hand happens, and they say "fy," "fy, you're not allowed!" I, who lives on one edge of the country where border trade, including alcohol, is very widespread, know that alcohol purchased at Systembolaget or MaxiMat on Svinesund has about the same effect as alcohol purchased at the Vinmonopolet or at Rema or Rimi. You don't get drunk by one versus the other. Nor is it healthier to drink Swedish alcohol — or at home, for that matter. I also know that after noon. In many municipalities it is much easier for young people to obtain completely different and far more dangerous drugs than beer. So I don't think it's any particular thoughtful or sensible alcohol policy to use what I would call the 'breathing regime'. The right is confident that the individual and the individual municipality themselves are closest to finding the best solutions, including in the field of alcohol policy. I have registered that in this room, at least in words, if not in action, it has long been a unanimous desire to make Norway an attractive country for tourists. Not enough for foreign tourists to meet the world’s highest prices of beer, which alone threatens several hundred Norwegian jobs at Norwegian breweries, but stops it a German family who wants to buy a six-pack with good Norwegian pils for the grill food or bratwursten’s one spot, they will be met with tarpaulin and ban if the clock is 20.05. Not exactly the best Norwegian advertisement, to say it carefully. The impression that will be confirmed is that Norway is a country of particular interest. Therefore, it is natural for local authorities to decide for themselves the selling times for beer and other alcoholic beverages in everyday life. The sale of beer can then follow the opening hours of the shops, or municipalities may choose to limit the sales time to adapt the local conditions. Then it's up to the voters to cast the majority of local government, if you disagree with such a policy. It will increase local self-government for municipalities. The proposal will provide a general ban on the sale of beer in shops on Sundays and public holidays. The intention to limit the adverse effects of alcohol use must be balanced against consumer policy considerations, including the need to ensure systems of legitimacy in the population. Serving schemes that are most widely perceived by people as the purest molar housing regulations undermines respect for alcohol policy in general. Harmonization of the hours spent on beer sales and the opening hours of shops will appear logical for consumers, while contributing to greater integration of Norwegian alcohol policy in general. By restricting the State restrictions on the sale of beer and other alcoholic beverages in the shops, we will move the decision closer to each other. The representative proposal we have for consideration will give municipalities the right to set the selling hours on weekdays for beer with a volume percentage between 2.5 and 4.7. So it is not the shopkeeper himself who has to determine the sale time of alcoholic beverages. The disagreement between the majority and the minority in this case is essentially based on the ability of municipalities to make the necessary balance between social policy and consumer policy considerations. The right considers that the municipalities are fully competent to have this responsibility. I refer you to the minority proposal that has been promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e405	This is a proposal we really don't need, now that we have growing problems with alcohol use and alcohol abuse. Instead, we should gather on measures that can reduce alcohol consumption. It would be naive to think that this proposal, if it had been adopted, would not have resulted in more and more opening times, especially in blue municipalities. Today, shops have the opportunity to stay open 24 hours a day, but most people choose to shut down once in the evening. Some grocery stores have been open until noon. 23), e.g. Here in the city. Most people close earlier, because it's not profitable to keep open anymore. In a situation where beer sales follow normal opening hours, it is easy to imagine that many shops will experience that it is profitable to keep things open much longer than today. The question is whether there is a lukewarm policy, when we already have major problems as a result of high alcohol consumption. I think it is rather unsolvable to children and also to the often young people who are going to work at the shops at night, like with minimal staff, and who are going to say no to the bewildered customers who want beer. Today's irritated customers will probably be seen as trifles in proportion. The left says they support the proposal because they believe municipal freedom is important, but they also have to take into account that they support increased alcohol consumption, at least, and major alcohol problems and alcohol-related problems. I don't think the police fully agree with them that this is the way to go. I would also like to point out a logical flaw in the proposal. The proposers write: ‘The harmonisation of the hours spent on beer sales in shops and the opening hours of shops will appear more logical for consumers and may thus contribute to a greater expansion of alcohol policy.’ But if the intention is increased municipal influence, and you don't want the municipalities to be able to limit the opening hours of the shops, this is not a matter of concern. In that case, it is assumed that the municipalities will not use their freedom to restrict beer sales. The proposers claim, I would say the most guilty of all, that they are also concerned with keeping the alcohol consumption down, but they argue the whole opposite in their proposal. Here, consumer considerations are emphasised, as if alcohol were a very common consumer product in line with milk and bread. It is also claimed that the stores have extra expenses due to the current system, which I find difficult to understand. If you have to put plastic over the beer for some time in the day, I honestly think you have an excessive care for the shops. I understand that customers are annoyed that beer sales close earlier than the store closes. That's what I'm going to do in some cases too. But I actually get that irritation, because it's more important that we have a society where we keep alcohol consumption under control. Voting down this proposal is just one of several measures in such a strategy. Others are e.g. to maintain the ban on alcohol advertising, to maintain the high level of fees, to maintain the monopoly of wine regimes and to prevent the Party of Advancement and the Right from being able to obtain wine in the shops. So the representative said Engeset that Norway is at risk of becoming ‘a country of particular interest’ because of this scheme. What I honestly think is taking things completely out of their proportions. I don't think it scares the tourists away from Norway that we're shutting down for beer sales at 1:00 p.m. 20 a.m. and 20 a.m. 18 Saturdays. And the fact is that more and more countries are starting to look at Norway and are being inspired by Norwegian alcohol policy, because they see that it is absolutely necessary for health policy reasons, for criminal reasons and also for children’s growing-up conditions to reduce alcohol use, and not just abuse, because increased consumption actually leads to higher alcohol problems. I also have to say that I think it was interesting to hear Fredriksen's posts, and I think I'm going to bring it up again, because I think the jamm that the representative in his post has completed the representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e432	The Christian People's Party is committed to having a solidarity policy on alcohol, which means that as a society we are willing to have restrictions on alcohol, in solidarity, among other things. with people who have an alcohol problem. There is a known link between availability, consumption and alcohol-related harm. When availability increases, consumption increases and, therefore, the damage to alcohol. When access is restricted, the damage is limited. In view of the increasing alcohol consumption — almost two litres of alcohol is now being consumed more per person. person than in 1993 — and that every four cases of illness are taken up by persons with alcohol-related injuries, the proposal from the Right, supported by the Progress Party and the Left, is, in my view, a step in the wrong direction. I believe that nutritional reasons should not be opposed to alcohol policy considerations. Alcohol is not difficult to obtain in Norway today. Alcoholic beverages can be sold from 1 p.m. 8 to 18 a.m. on weekdays and until 8 a.m. 15 on Saturdays and days before public holidays. Municipalities may restrict or extend access to at noon. 20 a.m. and 20 a.m. 18 on Saturdays and days before public holidays. If today's provisions are to be amended in line with the proposal of the Right, this could result in far greater access to, for example: beer; several shops today have open until 9.00 p.m. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox The proposers stress that municipalities should be able to control the opening hours of the shops and hence alcohol sales, but there is room for this to happen today. There are very few municipalities that actually choose to use the option of restricting the sales time for beer. Just 5 pst. has done so. 61 pst. have, on the other hand, adopted the extension of the opening times in relation to the standard. The proposers stress that there is confusion and irritation that shops have a different period of sale for beer and other alcoholic beverages. Instead of proposing measures to correct this which increase the availability of alcohol, the proposers should, in my view, rather call for measures to increase people’s understanding of why alcohol is being treated differently from other products. When the Progress Party is constantly calling for information campaigns to respond to all the problems that alcohol causes, it could be a useful measure in this context. There is a need for awareness of why alcohol has to be treated differently from milk and bread, because the consequences of abuse are so great. The figures from the Oslo Police show that 90 pst. by violence in the centre of Oslo may be linked to the suburbs. On a national basis, surveys show that 60–80 pst. of all violence is actually alcohol-related. One side of alcohol abuse is that outsiders are hit, through fights and unrest, but another side of it, on which also the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen was involved, is that children are hit — not least by parents who abuse alcohol. These are marked for life. The representative Fredriksen asked whom the proposal was most harmful to. I'd like to answer that. It is most harmful for children and young people – directly and indirectly. It is a fact that it is easier to prevent than to repair. Unfortunately, given the effects we have seen of the increase in alcohol consumption in the last 13 years, I cannot understand the aims and measures of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e450	The point of the proposal is that municipalities themselves should be able to determine the sal times for beer and other alcoholic drinks on weekdays. That means that the hall of beer etc. then the opening hours of the shops may be followed, or the municipality may choose to limit the salsities in order to adapt them to local conditions. We have said in the committee something that we have also said otherwise, that this will increase municipal self-government. There can be no doubt about it. Each municipality should have an alcohol policy action plan, and the Left strongly trusts that local decisions will be taken by those who know the best local conditions. I myself have many years of experience as a municipal politician, and I know that when it comes to beer, wine and spirits, there are really serious debates, and big debates, about all this, and I think that these debates in the local government around Norway may be at least as serious as the debate on this in this Chamber – perhaps more. Local democracy is important to the Left, and the proposal is, in our view, a strengthening of local democracy. I mean to have read in the committee comments from the plural fraction that they misinterpret the proposal. The shopkeepers are not the ones to decide the beers' sal times, according to the proposal. It is still the municipality that will have the authority to decide, but it is therefore the State limitation of salsa time to be restricted. As has already been said here, the proposal will result in a greater understanding of the population. I totally agree with that. That means that the shopkeepers let go of unnecessary work on this screening that we have heard about. But first and foremost, the proposal means the promotion of local self-government. That is the main reason why the Left supports the proposal for a representative. Finally, I just want to say that our view of this matter obviously does not imply that the Left has changed its alcohol policy stance. We are in favour of an alcohol policy that allows the vast majority of people to use alcohol without causing unacceptable damage to individuals and society. The left trusts that this is a perspective that local politicians will last very, very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e463	I have noticed that the proposers believe that there should be consistency between the provisions for the periods of sale of beer and other alcoholic beverages between 2.5 and 4.7 vol. and the general opening hours. As is known, selling times for alcoholic beverages are regulated by the Alcohol Act. And it's, as some speakers have already been involved, so that the normal time for selling alcohol is between 1:00 a.m. 8 a.m. and 18 a.m. on weekdays and between hours. 8 and 15 on Saturdays. Then, as you know, the municipalities themselves can restrict or extend the sales time beyond this within the maximum time, which is from at noon. 8 to 20 p.m. on weekdays and at 8 p.m. 8 to 18 on Saturdays. Experience so far shows that it is much more common for municipalities to extend sales times beyond the normal level than to limit them. In reality, it is therefore the maximum time for sales that is normal in Norwegian municipalities. The general opening hours of the shops are, as you know, regulated by the Law on Holidays and Holiday Peace. This law means that the opening hours of shops can be – and in many cases – far beyond the maximum hours of sale of beer and raisins by the alcohol law. As the proposers themselves point out, Norwegian alcohol policy has proved effective in reducing alcohol consumption and harm. The research literature in this area is clear that price and availability regulatory instruments are very effective in limiting such damage. Norwegian alcohol policy has contributed to Norway being among the countries with the lowest consumption and the lowest number of alcohol damage throughout Europe. I understand that the proposers still believe that the difference creates unnecessary problems, confusion and irritation. The proposers acknowledge that research shows that Norwegian alcohol policy has been effective in reducing alcohol damage, but that the need to limit such damage must be balanced against consumer policy interests. It is difficult for me to see how this contrasts with consumer policy interests. On the contrary, Norway’s restrictive alcohol policy has stated its intention of protecting consumers, for example: by means of advertising restrictions with regard to children and young people in particular. I believe that an alcohol policy that contributes to good Norwegian public health is in line with Norwegian consumer interests. The proposal will include, inter alia: pointed out that we need to implement a natural adaptation to Europe. I don't think there's any target at all in all. But, fortunately, problems related to alcohol have been raised on the international political agenda in, for example: The World Health Organisation and the EU, and alcohol policy are increasingly seen in public health. I think that's good. It is necessary that we cooperate even more across borders in this area. Understanding that price and availability mean something for alcohol use has begun to spread in Europe, and more countries south of Europe have introduced measures because they see that it is effective to reduce consumption and harm. One of the most important and effective measures in the Norwegian alcohol policy has been to limit sales times. The rapporteur believes that it is necessary to distinguish between the characteristics of alcohol use and the abuse of alcohol. I would like to point out that harmful use of alcohol is not only about addiction, but also about careless use among people who cannot be said to have a dependency problem. Most of the damage caused by alcohol is related to acute harm caused by intoxication and not to alcohol dependence. This applies, for example: violence and accidents. We know that a large proportion of all violence in Norway is alcohol-related, and studies, among others. from SIRUS suggests that increased consumption of alcohol in Norway will result in more violence. And when the Oslo police go so clearly into the media as they've done lately, and pointed out how the increased density of these cities and the opening hours that apply have created more violence, I can't see why someone should support the proposal that's here on the table. To be honest, it's a paradox that the parties calling for stricter penalties for violent crime will weaken some of the best means we actually have to limit such problems. Furthermore, measures such as restriction of sales times limit consumption both among those who drink a lot and among those who have a lower consumption. International research shows a clear link between total alcohol consumption and the number of alcohol-related injuries and deaths. On this basis, I agree – perhaps not surprisingly – with the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, who will not support this proposal, not least in solidarity with the many children and young people who suffer from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e492	I am a little in doubt if the council has read the proposal well enough before she keeps her post in the hall. This proposal concerns the fact that municipalities are even more likely to determine the sales times for beer between 2.5 and 4.7 pst. In this connection, I must remind the Council of State that in a number of other matters when talking about earmarking funds, among other things. contrary to the decision of the municipalities themselves, the Council of State itself has said that the sense is somewhat equally distributed whether at state or municipal level. Yes, the council has even said that it is despite all the municipal politicians who know the municipality their best, and who actually know what life is like out there in the municipality. Does the Council of State not see that municipal politicians should also have the opportunity to regulate this in their own municipality? It is not a matter of automatically following the opening hours of the shops, but of the municipality itself being able to make such a provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e497	I can assure the representative that I have read the proposal, and I have read it carefully. In fact, most municipalities today that have the opportunity to do so, I would almost say, take advantage of the maximum time available for the sale of beer and raspberry in the store. When we know how serious the problems alcohol creates — a growing problem, linked to children and young people, many of whom have been involved, related to violence and abuse, especially in the big cities, especially in Oslo — and know the context in which the police are quite clear, researchers are quite clear, drug policy organisations are ready, that there is a link between price and availability, I believe that it is going wrong to allow one to buy alcohol even more hours a day. I believe that there is a big difference between buying beer and buying beer, for example. milk and bread.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e502	I listened with great interest to the general considerations of the Council of State on the relationship between the availability of alcohol and alcohol-related problems, and do not have major problems in following the reasoning. But I have a question. If it is true that the Government and the Council of State intend to establish 100 new local wine monopoly sales, is the purpose of limiting the consumption of alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e507	The wine monopoly system is an incredibly important alcohol policy instrument. I think it's very important to keep it. If we're going to manage to keep it, we're going to depend on the entire Norwegian people ending up on the Vinmonopole. As the representative of pay knows well, in some parts of the country it is very far to a pole, we are talking about miles, and there is no reasonableness that those people should have to drive seven miles, 15 miles or what it might be, in order to buy a legally negotiable item. I believe that the worst thing that can happen in this context is that there should be a majority who will make sure that a get wine and booze into shops, as I have registered that someone wants. To avoid that, I believe that the main instrument is to maintain the Vinmonopole. But then we have to have a break up about the scheme, and I think it is right that other parts of the country also have access to legally negotiable goods, but not that one should extend the time any more than what is in force today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e512	In response to my previous reply, I could at least record that the Council of State believes that the wit is somewhat equally distributed except in the drugs policy, the alcohol policy, because it is obvious that there is to be a state doing so, and the municipal politicians do not know the same thing, as one could at least get the impression from the Council of State's response. My question to the Council of State this time refers to Mr. Gunn Olsen's introduction at the outset, where she pointed out that perhaps one should consider whether the shops should actually have a shorter opening time, in order to adapt more to the state's connection with alcohol sales, and she would like to take that debate. At least then I would like to ask the Council of State to say something about whether it is the current policy of the Government that one now rather consider going the other way and letting the shops have a shorter opening time, so that, in this important state area, it is ensured that the population can also not buy bread or milk after noon. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e517	This council has quite a hold on the fact that a lot of stores are open for quite a long time now, and I don't think there is any big problem. But I believe that there is a very important distinction between buying bread or milk a little late in the evening and having to buy beer at noon. 23 In the evening, or rush, for that matter. I think that's two completely different things. So we also know that the municipalities practice the system we have today, by making maximum use of it, a lot of municipalities do, and so I mean, frankly, there's no big social problem that you're not allowed to buy beer at the shops at 0 p.m. Twenty-three in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e522	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e527	When you listen to Martin Engeset's posts, it almost sounds like it's a popular demand that you have to buy beer in a store beyond the time that the law puts on today. It's a pity for the tourists, he says, who don't get to buy beer for their grill food, etc., and the prices scare tourists away from Norway. I want to ask the representative Engeset, because I don't spend my time reading the Right Programme: is it really that a person wants to harmonise beer, i.e. alcohol, with all the other foods? Does this also mean that you want to remove the advertising ban on beer, for example, that you should be allowed to start advertising this product? Because it's awfully sad if people don't know what kind of new brands come on the market! It would be contrary to the consumer interests that one is not allowed to market himself! As far as consumer interests are concerned, I believe that it is in the interests of consumers that we have an alcohol policy, that we have a policy that regulates and restricts access, as several speakers have said before today. I think it is rather sad if the Right believes that the alcohol should be treated and considered as any other product. Now I know very well that this proposal is only about opening hours, but I would like to challenge the Right if they believe that there should be full harmonisation between other goods and alcoholic goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e537	It was also the representative Engeset's contribution that made me take the floor again. I find it hopeless to discuss opening hours for the sale of alcohol without going any further in relation to alcohol policy. Now the representative Engeset was so amazed at my post. Maybe I should say yes, thank you in the same way, when the representative wonders that I am in my post, almost in a confession, saying that we are no suspended heads in politics. We open up poles in the municipalities, like the Bondevik government, with good support from the Right, did. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing! It was an illustration from my side to say that yes, we are for pole. But that doesn't mean that there's a free front and a full mouth in terms of outlets for alcohol. I'm surprised that the representative Engeset doesn't give us anything right, that he doesn't reflect for a single moment on the realities we face in the evidence we know about the adverse effects of alcohol, and the link between availability and increased consumption that we know about, but focuses on the delay that we have to go over the beer boxes. I do not want to extend the debate, but I note that the members of the Health and Care Committee from the Right do not participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e548	This debate has probably gone on as long as politicians have been sitting in this Chamber. The theme has come up again and again, and the solution has been the same: make sure there is poor availability, people stop drinking! In 1916 they tried with bans. That would really help. There were many who rejoiced at the time. But there were as many people who asked to get the ban lifted as it turned out that there were only many more alcohol problems. The alcohol policy that has been taking place in Norway throughout all the years, which is being boasted in the clouds, has led to a poor alcohol culture — a drinking culture that we see around Oslo streets during the weekends. It's the result of our alcohol policy, not the result of people getting alcohol. They get it all over the world, but there's probably hardly any place where you see stuff like what you can sometimes see in Norway, and it's not because you get bought alcohol. When you talk about not buying alcohol at the shops after a certain time, you talk about: Who is not going to buy alcohol after noon. 20 in the evening? Are they just the ones with bad advice? All of us in this room can go and buy a pint of beer just when we wish, because we can afford it. But if a person with a slightly lower economy is going to have beer for dinner, he/she will not be allowed to buy it at the stores. That is what the representative from the Progress Party thought about the question: Who is the most harmful to? Is it the most harmful thing for those who don't have as good advice as us? Are they the ones we're going to spare all the time by making sure they don't get bought beer after closing time? There must be limits to care. Most adult people can take care of themselves, but we have to give them some trust. At least we can trust the municipalities, so they can make some decisions, because they are the ones responsible for alcohol policy. And then maybe we should think a little bit more after 100 years, when we see that the simple solutions that we've come up with in the past haven't worked according to expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e562	It is kind of nice to listen to attempts to derail the debate here – that you are now asking to have the programme put to the right on the table, because you wonder what it says. But I guess that's not exactly what we're doing. I feel that there are obviously some people here who want to completely track down the debate and what it is about: who is going to decide when it is allowed to buy alcohol at the store? There is a minority here who clearly believe that this is a matter in which democracy and the municipalities should be able to decide. Then there's a majority who say that these aren't the municipalities themselves capable of. But the municipalities are very well able to take care of the elderly, sick and children almost on every occasion. Then, suddenly, local democracy is very important. But when people are going to buy a bottle of beer themselves, it's not that important. I also have to say that when, in the course of a five-minute post, I was able to complete the entire representative democracy, i.e. in five minutes, I see it as a great achievement. I also reacted very much to what Gunn Olsen from the Workers' Party said that she now wanted to have the opening time in the shops according to the hours of alcohol sales. We are soon back where we were in 1984, where it was not allowed to sell milk and bread after noon. 17, and at least not on weekends. And it wasn't the Workers' Party that went in the breeze to get this ban removed, so we could buy milk and bread after noon. 17 and on the weekends. It was a completely different party, which has a completely different tradition and history in terms of caring for consumers in society, which did.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e576	I note with interest that Brustad-bua's mother, the current councillor Sylvia Brustad, does not think it is a point to extend the opening hours, in this case for the sale of beer, if the municipalities wish. Just as it didn't come like any big bomb. Otherwise I have to say that I think it is a bit funny to record that the majority in this case is so strongly impressed by Norwegian alcohol policy. I probably don't belong to those who are most impressed by that very part of Norwegian policy. I think, among other things, not that the behaviour of too many Nordics on vacation in the South, who take care of what is to be caught, suggests that we have learned too much about how to behave in a good way for the use of alcohol. In the case of beer fees, we have NOK 20 per person in Norway. litres of beer at State fee. Sweden has SEK 7 per cent. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, I don't think it's anything to be very proud of, not least when we know that this threatens hundreds of Norwegian industrial jobs, as the majority in this case later on, as if they're very interested in rocking in other contexts. Questions have arisen as to whether the Right wish to achieve full harmonisation in relation to other products and to lift the advertising ban. The answer is no. I will not spend more time on it, because it is to trace what this matter is really about, namely whether you should have a ban on selling beer as long as the grocery stores are open. I think it's a paradox, as a member of the Health Committee Inge Wohnning also said, that when the government wants to open up the wine monopoly sale of spirits in each branch, with a hundred new sales – brandy to the whole people in each branch – it's fine, while people are going to buy themselves a bottle of beer after 1 p.m. 20, as well as your disaster. Then the Norwegian community is completely raging. This is not a matter of concern. It almost seems as if you believe and believe that only the state sells spirits with 60 pst. strength or whatever it may be, it's okay. I'm sure it's healthy. Only it's the state through the wine monopoly that sells, there's no problem. I think this is going to be a double moral that's not completely connected. I record that those who have always been against extended opening hours, and who are now unfortunately in government, are also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e591	The President will call for a sober debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e594	Yes, I can promise. Now I'm talking to a total waitress, so I'm going to stay sober. I agree with Engeset on one thing, and there is reason to question whether Norwegian alcohol policy has been successful in all areas, because there are major alcohol problems in this country. But I'm very surprised that the solution then is to get out, so it's even easier to get alcohol at all times of the day and preferably as cheap as possible. How is that going to solve any problems? The anxiety says that he is sometimes ashamed of the behaviour of the North in the South. As I have kept myself sober in most respects, I have also been sober at parties in Norway. I have to say that I'm not always as impressed by the behaviour in this country either, so it seems that there might be something about the attitudes towards alcohol in general and not the price and availability that, to say the least, affects Norwegian consumption the most. So to the discussion about the pole. It might be interesting to discuss it. I believe that some of the reasons for extending the polishing system are that there is the most controlled sales of alcohol available. Then there are probably some adults who buy alcohol on the pole as well and sell it to those who shouldn't have had it, but there's probably no place where it's being controlled as much as there. Then I also react to the attempt to push people with bad advice in front of them so that you can buy beer at noon. Twenty-three in the evening. Alcohol is so available in this country that I just can't understand what the problem is for those who can't get it within the opening hours we have. Then the price of beer is also the same, as far as I know. There are also people who even go to the step of arguing that if the youth doesn't get to buy beer at 1:00 p.m. 23 in the evening, they're going to use harder drugs. I've never heard my husband apologize for going over to harder drugs. There should be such a great need to buy a bottle of beer at noon. 23 in the evening, and when you don't get it, you have an excuse to do something else. No – then I think you better make a deal with the drug culture that is behind this. So finally something about this that the wit is evenly distributed. Now the representative from the Progress Party was up here and said that the party would like to tighten up in a lot of areas where they believe that the municipalities should not have such a responsibility as they have today. In this area, I must admit that we believe that we should have a strong national policy. I stand for that, and I'm not ashamed of that at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e611	It surprises me that some of the speakers here are talking about putting our alcohol policy in the hands of tourists who come into our country at random. I'm not so sure the tourists are going to buy so much beer here, because beer is probably quite expensive in Norway compared to what they're used to. Our alcohol policy is relatively strict. That's why we also have less damage than they do in many other countries. When the representative Engeset talks about our excessive fees, he should visit the website of the Nordic Council of Ministers and read the latest report on Finland. When those who lowered the fees two years ago, damage from alcohol abuse and violence exploded. When it comes to the Progress Party, they talk very much about local democracy and alcohol policy. It is quite funny that when we talk about care for the elderly, it should be earmarked or made public. In such an important case, you do not rely on the autonomy of the municipalities. Then I want to finish by asking the left a few questions. As I see it, the Left here may have changed some attitudes. Does the Left really believe that local self-government should go ahead of a solidarity policy on alcohol? I think about children and young people, and I think about big users. Did I hear correctly when the representative Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Left said that the alcohol policy of the Left would facilitate the use of alcohol? It is possible that I heard errors, but I must be allowed to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e622	This has evolved into a rather colorful and diverse debate. In return, 90 pst is traded. of it on completely different matters than what the proposal is about. When I allowed myself to put a question to the Council of State instead, to which she carefully avoided answering, it was because I think the figures for the government parties, and in this case also for the Christian People's Party, which makes it a general premise that it is the availability that is decisive to the extent of the alcohol problem, to answer why it is then a proper form of alcohol policy to establish ever more wine monopoly sales, which differs from the daily trade by offering products with 10 to 15 times higher alcohol concentration. It is either necessary to make a consistent decision in order to implement the premise, in which case it is necessary to limit the availability of alcohol to the purchase of alcohol as the overall policy measure, or to allow selective arguments to be made — that in the case of wine monopoly policy, the general view is not valid. It's an advantage if you don't make the disagreements in this room bigger than it's for. If we all agree that a realistic alcohol policy in a society is a very difficult balance, much will be won. Then you might also bring the matter on which the proposal is concerned, down to the practical level where it belongs, instead of blowing it up to an enormously large issue that updates advertising policy, pricing policy and all possible and unimaginable side issues, which are not at all affected by the representative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e631	This issue of alcohol policy is an important theme and an important area of Norwegian health policy. The Health and Welfare Committee looks at the regular reports, the challenges you face, and the damage that alcohol can cause to individuals and not least to families around. The representative Ludvigsen pointed out that alcohol policy was important in relation to local democracy and self-government, that having the opportunity to extend the opening hours in each municipality was very important for self-government. But it is not that the municipalities also take responsibility for the damage this alcohol policy and the alcohol causes to individuals and families. Then suddenly there are others who have to take responsibility. We see that today's shops and municipalities are taking full advantage of the max times. If you travel around Europe looking at availability and price, you can see that we in Norway are not so terribly restrictive in all sorts of ways. I think we're liberal many times. If you end up meeting the door here tonight, you see that the streets are full of people who have been, or who are going to, in restaurants and pubs. Does the Progress Party believe that the alcohol is a groceries equal to bread and milk, that it is important that one should be able to buy alcohol at any time of the day? Comparing this with the debate on extended opening hours for the purchase of ordinary groceries will be completely wrong with my position. If you think this is a groceries, then I really realize that the alcohol damage is great here in the country. The representative Giltun said that we should not have too much care for individuals. We've seen what tragedies slot machines have inflicted on individuals and families, and we want to intensify the availability to counteract such a development. This is also a matter of alcohol policy. There is no question of prohibiting the sale of alcohol. It's not about restricting the sale of alcohol. We're talking about maintaining opening times that are already fixed and that work well. Nor is it about selling alcohol in each branch when we increase the number of wine monopolies. It's about the fact that every municipality, the one that lives in District Norway, has the same availability as the one that lives here in Oslo. There is a big difference between expanding the number of wine monopolies around the country and extending opening hours and comparing alcohol with groceries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e646	Rarely have I experienced a debate that has taken so completely by and got so far out of course, as the debate on this proposal for a representative. The starting point of the proposal for a representative is that each municipality should be given the authority to decide whether to sell alcohol in addition to the opening time it currently has in the municipality, linked to beer. It was a little strange to hear representatives Karin Andersen's comments, because she actually said that there could be no problem, because you can get hold of beer anyway. Yeah, but what's the problem? Is it that they are actually allowed to sell beer legally during the opening hours of the shops, or is it that you need a state regulation, that it must be drawn for a curtain or covered until after noon. 20 a.m. and 20 a.m. 18 on Saturdays? It was tempting after Laila Davøy's intervention to ask for the word of a manifest misunderstanding. Because it is quite clear that the representative, Mr Davøy, has not at least read the programme of the Progress Party, and I should not deny her that either. But one thing I have to be allowed to say: Earmarked grants from the state are something quite different than publicising the care of the elderly. Already today, the money comes from the state, as it is true, without telling the municipalities how to use it. We just want to name some areas where you're going to use them. This proposal concerns whether the municipalities themselves should decide the sale time for beer in the shops, that the State does not have to decide this. That is what this debate is about. But to put it bluntly: this debate has now been strained by state care for elderly people on the one hand and – I kept saying – ban time on the other, that alcohol is available in any case, to have spirits in every village and country, that it will not cause problems, but if the municipalities are to be allowed to decide that beer is to be bought, for example. until 1:00 p.m. 21 instead of until 20, then it's a huge problem for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e657	I didn't intend to take the floor until the representative Davøy came up with the question of whether the Left has a policy. What I said in my previous post was that the municipalities should have an alcohol policy plan. It's supposed to be in every municipality. The left has a view of both beer, wine, spirits and other drugs. That's absolutely what we have. We have a drug policy. I believe that also the Christian People's Party has. The point, as I said in my previous post, is who is going to determine the salsities of beer. I have said that it is the municipality that will decide this, and that it means municipal self-government. Is there anyone who disagrees that there is a municipal self - government? I can't understand it. What I see here is that some people think that he who wears his shoe doesn't understand his own best. We've listened to that in many other contexts, or from those who want to deal with the opposite imagery. I myself have our municipal politicians, I have our spokesmen, and I still believe that in this role from this chair, I am as serious as I was in the old role.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e665	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e685	In the budgetary position adopted by the Committee during the week, the following sentences were inserted: ‘The Committee believes that habilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major area of health care. Such a commitment will contribute to better quality of life and greater autonomy for patients, while reducing the need for care services.’ I don't reveal any great secret by telling you that this was originally part of a larger remark made by the Right fraction of the committee. We are very pleased that the whole committee has agreed to this. In fact, there is a rather strong indication from an overall committee of what is quoted in the text of the interpellation, and as the Council of State itself has written into the budget proposal, namely that some of the lack of habilitation and rehabilitation is high enough priority in today's Norwegian health and care policy. I had the opportunity to share some views with the Council of State in the spontaneous question hour last Wednesday on the same topic. I found with satisfaction that there was full agreement between the Council of State and me that the concept of ‘necessary health care’ includes, in fact, the assistance for training, rehabilitation, which will enable the individual patient to master his or her own everyday life at the level of function that can be achieved on the basis of his or her assumptions. There should be a good starting point for a joint commitment to ensure that the provision of rehabilitation is well enough. Annually, more than 40,000 Nordics need training and rehabilitation in institutions after illness and after hospitalisation. ==References== 18 000 of these will be accommodated in state hospitals, approx. 27,000 are accommodated in private training institutions. Today, as we know, responsibility for ensuring access to rehabilitation and training services has been added to regional health businesses. It is their responsibility to ensure that the offer is large enough, and that it is qualitatively good enough. The SINTEF National Plan for Rehabilitation — Monitoring of Needs, from August 2005, shows that the survey interviewers and representatives of nationwide organisations active in the rehabilitation field point out that there are some obvious shortcomings in today’s offer. In particular, the shortcomings appear to be linked to the lack of access to skills and, on the one hand, the lack of adequate coordination between all public authorities responsible for facilitating the provision of rehabilitation services. The report demonstrates a number of weaknesses both in the municipalities, in the specialist health service and not least in the interaction between the municipalities and the specialist health service. The co-operation administration is working on an action plan for the rehabilitation field. And not least the parties that are currently government parties and that were opposition parties in the previous period, supported this very actively in the Storting in the context of the 2005 government budget. The representatives of the current government parties wrote at that time in the budgetary position: ‘These members will request that such a review be carried out as soon as possible and that it be followed up with an escalation plan which clarifies and ensures both professional and economic conditions.’ Now I have registered that after the government change, the level of ambition seems to be written down significantly. There are no longer ambitions for a separate rehabilitation action plan. Now, instead of talking about a strategy for rehabilitation, we are talking about a strategy for rehabilitation. In the Right Alternative State Budget, we have proposed to strengthen this field with a total of 500 million. This is because we believe that it is required, and that it is the beginning of this escalation that the entire committee now agrees that it is necessary. My question to the Council of State is: why is the planned action plan written down to become a strategy? And will the Storting somehow be presented with the ambitions that the Government will continue to underpin its work in the rehabilitation field? For example, the Council of State will: ensure that the strategy of the Ministry of Health and Welfare is coordinated with actions falling within the responsibilities of other departments — in relation to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, in relation to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport, in relation to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and in relation to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Knowledge in relation to children of school age. So far, most of the answers to such questions have been limited to a repetition of an increase in the municipal economy by so many billions to cover all the purposes of filling up the swimming pool, strengthening child protection, strengthening the number of teachers in school, etc., but there is no response to the need for a targeted action plan for rehabilitation. So a few words about the private training institutions. I referred to the figures that show that the efforts made in this area are far greater within the private training institutions than within the public institutions. This is the difference between 27,000 and 18000 users. At the same time, documented figures show that the costs of staying at the private training institutions are lower than 1/4 of the corresponding daily price in public hospital institutions. If we initially agree that it is important that the resources we use to satisfy patients' needs extend to as much as possible, that as much as possible receive an adequate offer, then it is in the cards that it should be said to buy where the offer is most reasonable. Now, the reality is that many of the private training centres are in deficit and have had to cancel employees. This concerns Steffensrud Rehabilitation Centre, Bøverbru, the Landaasen Rehabilitation Centre in Oppland, in the case of Grande Rehabilitation Centre, in the case of CatoCenter. Godthaab Rehabilitation Centre has compiled before the middle of the year an operating deficit of DKK 800000 only for the current year, and must sell properties to finance operations. Will the Council of State ensure that there are clear enough governance signals for regional health companies to enter into binding, lasting agreements with the qualitatively good private training institutions? From last year to this year there has been a decrease in the number of rehabilitation stays by 16 pst. in the field of specialist health care. Here, too, there is reason to ask the Council of State: will she respond to this in her letters/documents to regional health companies to reverse this trend in a constructive way? Finally, a theme that I'm just going to go so far as to mention, but that's pretty important. The State Knowledge and Development Centre for Whole Rehabilitation has pointed out that there is a dramatic unmet need for qualified research in the field of service we are talking about here. What are the plans of the State Councils to strengthen research efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e724	Let me first say that I am pleased that there is so much commitment, and that there is a broad consensus that habilitation and rehabilitation are areas where it is worth investing in. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has determined – and I want to repeat it here – that after illness it will ‘safe rehabilitation and training for everyone who needs it’. We will also work to ensure that young people with disabilities or chronic diseases receive a good and multidisciplinary habilitation offer. This means that we should be able to offer good, competent and adequate rehabilitation services to both young and old people, both men and women – wherever they live in the country. All shall have equal opportunities to live a decent life and to master problems that prevent them from participating in activities and in social life. As the representative of Wage is familiar with, in the new year I will present a national strategy for rehabilitation. I'll get closer to it. This does not mean that the Government downgrades this work. I'd rather say the opposite. First, I feel the need to repeat that today's health laws should guarantee the right of the individual to rehabilitation. This applies to both municipal and specialist health services. In the 2006 governance papers for regional health enterprises, special attention was given to patients in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Also in the 2007 mission letter, which they will receive in January, it will be clear that the service provision will be developed to meet the needs of these patients. The local authorities' obligation to care for this patient group is particularly evident in the annual circular on the priorities of municipalities. Of course, I will also pay attention to this in the next year's circular. The Ministry will monitor closely how the specialist health service and the municipalities cover these tasks, including: through fixed reporting systems. Rehabilitation is a process involving many services and activities, especially in municipalities, but also in the specialist health service. There are different needs that we have to try to address. I am thinking in particular of the learning and mastering centres in health companies, their own units for rehabilitation and extensive cooperation with private training institutions and special health institutions. The supply of private suppliers that have contracts with regional health establishments shall be part of the overall supply to the population. The comparison of the daily price of private rehabilitation institutions with the daily price of hospitals, which the representative Wohnung made in the interpellation of private contract specialists on 16 November of this year, is unfortunately difficult to implement. The institutional sector shall not perform services at the same level as hospital departments, but shall cooperate closely on, for example: follow-up after operations and primary rehabilitation. Hospital wards working on rehabilitation have staff — in particular doctors, physiotherapists and nurses — and sometimes also equipment that the private institutions do not have and that is not necessary for them to perform their duties. This is not to say that no more of these institutions will need more qualified personnel. The previous government, through the tender organisation, made up for a conversion in the training institutions and in other rehabilitation institutions, which resulted in a substantial reduction in the number of institutional places. Some of this was corrected after we took over the government power, by establishing a special grant that the institutions could use to develop their offerings. Several institutions that would otherwise have had to close down were given a basis for continuing their business. Sufficient capacity in services is important, but it is not so easy to quantify this accurately. One and the same problem can be solved differently. In the case of hip surgery, it may be relevant for some to stay in a training establishment, while others have the best use of an offer in the municipality. Similarly, in the case of people who aim to return to work after illness or injury, measures in cooperation between health services in municipalities and NAV may be relevant, while in some cases provision in institutions may be relevant. These issues have been addressed in the St.melding. No 9, Work, well-being and inclusion, and we will follow this up further through the sick leave agreement with the social partners. I can assure the representative of Wage that we will cooperate widely with the departments concerned as we develop the new strategy. The government is concerned that there should be good capacity in terms of habilitation and rehabilitation. Then it is important to look at the whole of the offer given. The capacity for institutional rehabilitation, including the geographical distribution, is a matter for the Government, among other things. as part of the follow-up to St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004, Income system for specialist health services. Good quality rehabilitation must: reflect the human right to sea, to decide over vital living conditions and at sea, to be able to take personal responsibility and mastery of one's own objectives and to help it to gain insight into its own needs, opportunities and limits, as far as possible, of self-control over the rehabilitation process and to facilitate active participation and participation; We know that the provision of rehabilitation often means that more than one body needs to do so, and that it is important to tailor the arrangements to the best of their needs as far as possible. Therefore, both the community health service and the specialist health service, as well as contributing to the user’s functional improvement, must also provide training on how to master the new life in the event of illness or injury. This applies to users as well as to relatives. Learning and mastering centres shall contribute to training becoming an integral part of all medical treatment and rehabilitation. I think these centers have a very important role, but I'm aware that it doesn't work as well everywhere. I take that very seriously. I'll make sure it gets in place. I also want to mention the educational institutions and the working life. Life must be lived in many arenas. That's true of everyone. It is then important that there are competences and resources to help individuals achieve the goals they have set themselves. As announced in the National Health Level, I will present this national strategy in the new year. What is important for the Government to provide is: ensuring the necessary capacity for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the further development of good and sound rehabilitation services to improve the division of tasks and interaction between municipalities and specialist health services and between public and private service providers to ensure the recruitment and goodcompetence of services to strengthen research efforts; In this work, we cooperate closely with user organisations and with healthcare. And I'm, in addition to listening to Stortinget, very interested in hearing what the users and employees in the service have on my mind. The quality requirement will apply to habilitation and rehabilitation as to other health and social services. They have to work, so they have to give them what they're talking about, a better life. They must be safe, they must involve the users and give them influence. And that's going to have to be the relationship in the deals that we're giving. Then we have to make sure that we make good use of the resources, that they are fairly distributed, and that they are accessible to everyone who needs it. Municipalities are responsible for the quality of the services they provide. This also applies, of course, to regional health enterprises. As regards the quality of private institutions, it shall be ensured, inter alia: through agreements with the regional health establishments. Complaint systems and the supervision of services are also important instruments for ensuring quality in this important area. The supervision of the habilitation service and the services of local authorities to persons with complex needs has revealed deficiencies, see: a recent report. There are deficiencies that need to be corrected in order for us to be of a high quality. In addition to capacity and quality, it is of course important for healthcare to interact well, as the representative on the pay side also pointed out, because we know that there must often be interaction between both specialist health and primary health services and also on the municipal level in the area of social care. For several years, individual levels have been an important instrument for the treatment and follow-up of each individual. I think it still is, but it is unfortunately different practices in relation to how this works around. That's why we have to make sure that this comes into place. We also need to ensure that there is good contact between all agencies and between people working in this important area. I will also come back to the particular challenges we face in terms of interaction, including the central organisation of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e798	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which confirms that with regard to the perception of what the rehabilitation challenge is all about, we are essentially in agreement. The question of separation is once again the level of ambition. I am not going to hold a language debate with the Council of State on what is the difference between an action plan and a strategy, but I note that many of the large user organisations in the context of budgetary consultation have expressed considerable disappointment that the level of ambition seems to have been checked down quite sharply. And I don't suspect the large user organisations that they're reading the government's draft budget, too, so that there are no readable signals about prioritisation of this field. Within an otherwise large budget, there is nothing to say that the Government is committed to giving priority to this in relation to other health objectives. The longest thing to go in that direction is the indirect admission, that it is not well-prioritized today – and we are 100 pst. agree. But my question is, what do you intend to do to prioritise the higher in the continuation? I do not think the Council of State gave a clear and clear answer to that. As regards the comparison between public and private institutions in this field, the Council of State is of course right to consider such a comparison with some methodological problems. But those problems go both ways, because in the price difference that I referred to, one must also include that in the daily price of public institutions, depreciation costs and other things are not recognised. They're also coming in. But the private training institutions also have to cover this type of expenditure within the fixed daily price at a place between NOK 1 100 and NOK 1200. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State once more: would she at least be interested in ordering a proper analysis of why the cost picture is as it is, why the difference is so dramatic? Because it could be that here's a lesson to learn about the way we conduct the rehabilitation policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e807	I record that the representative Wage is still trying to make it a point that the Right and Government are separating layers in terms of ambition. I believe that insofar as there is any difference here, it is at least in the favor of this government, because it is so that it was the previous government, of which the Right was also part, that made the arrangement related to rehabilitation institutions. It happened in June 2005, and it was introduced from this year. And that's the work of this government – we introduced a grant of our own – that's why, for example. rehabilitation institutions such as Godthaab, Sofienberg, Seamen's Health and Frydenberg have survived. So to the extent that there's any difference in the level of ambition in this area, at least there's no favor in the Right Party. But I think it's more important to look forward. It's good that if a rattles away that rhetoric, it seems to be a fairly broad majority who actually want something more to ensure rehabilitation for the population. I actually think that people are most concerned about that. From the Government side, we have good contact with the user organisations. They are, and shall continue to be, well involved in the development of the new strategy. Of course, I will also involve Stortinget in an appropriate way in relation to rehabilitation over the years to come. The representative's salary says we haven't given strong signals. Well, this government has it, both through more money and through the fact that in the governance documents for the current year we have clearly announced that rehabilitation is a priority area. I can assure you that I am going to repeat it for the next year. With regard to the issue of cost differences between public and private providers, I would like to stress that I believe that private providers, and in particular the ideals in this area – LHL’s many institutions or others – are doing a great job. We need them, and we want more of them in the future for the benefit of our patients. It is not easy to compare directly between public and private providers because in many ways, as I said in my main post, they have slightly different roles to play within this area. But I'm going to look into where it's comparable, whether there's different costs and why, if any. But the government means what we say in Soria Moria that we have to ensure rehabilitation and rehabilitation for everyone who needs it. This is what we intend to follow up in practice in different ways, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e820	I am pleased that the State Council Sylvia Brustad in reply to the interpellant very clearly states that the individual's right to habilitation and rehabilitation is ensured by today's health laws, and that this applies both in the municipal health service and not least in the specialist health service. Through the national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation presented in the new year, the Council of State and the Government announce an offensive effort to improve quality and capacity in this important area in the future. Having good health care capacity is important and necessary to provide equal treatment wherever you live in this country, so that patients are monitored and treated in the event of illness and injury as soon as possible. Through early and good rehabilitation, individuals will cope with their daily lives in a much better way, and many will also be able to return to work in the past. Therefore, the contract between the employer and the employee side to set aside 631 million. an important step towards strengthening rehabilitation. Today, we see that habilitation and rehabilitation institutions are divided differently between the five health regions. Where these health institutions have been established has a historical background. A change to that structure cannot happen overnight; it must happen over time. One must not build up in one area and build up in another, but one must look at how a smoothing can be done in a good way in the future that takes care of the wide and good offer that already exists around. Capacity, quality and proximity to good rehabilitation services are important. Therefore, this dithering must take place over time. If these objectives are to be achieved, there must be a good interaction between the State, the county councils — possibly new regions — and not least the municipal sector. Municipalities and specialist health services provide important services in this area, both in public institutions and in private institutions also operated by NPISHs. It is important to build further on today's offer, and that one sets requirements for further education for those who work here. Further education will contribute to improving the quality and professional follow-up of patient groups in need of such treatment. We have a good mix of public and private institutions and non-profit institutions in South-Trøndelag. To make use of the capacity such as: The LHL on Røros has, as Selli Rehabilitation Center AS in Kläbu, which Bethania in Malvik has and which Munkold in Trondheim has, is important. They have good capacity, they have background, and they have personnel. It is important to build on this before building new competing institutions around in all counties. As the Council of State answers, learning and mastering centres in health businesses are important actors — with a background in the manning of the country’s hospitals, through doctors, physiotherapists, etc. This professional competence is also important to take advantage of. How can professional competence be developed in all areas of the country? I think that mastering centres can be some of the things that can be added to the local hospitals where you have a competent health care professional. It can provide closeness, security and good professional quality where the inhabitants live. Being close to home, relatives and family is important when going through a long rehabilitation period after illness and injury. It is always possible to improve the provision of health, as it is possible to improve all other areas of society. These include: therefore, the Council of State presents a national strategy plan for rehabilitating in the new year. Without the strong increases made by this government and this Council of State, unlike the budgets provided by the previous government, among others. 600 million. SEK to increase activity in 2006 plus 390 million. NOK now, we had not had the opportunity to invest so much in habilitation and rehabilitation around health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e839	First, a little visit to the last representative's post, because it was just to be lacking that you couldn't afford a little more money to the health service than the previous government did. Never has this nation had more money, never has the room for action been bigger, and thus the possibilities are also present. In many ways, this debate becomes a bit prelude to the debate we are going to have here on Wednesday. I'll try to be a little careful and not use up all my points before Wednesday, but I still think it's more than enough to get into when we get to that debate. It is quite clear that the economic situation of health businesses also intervenes in the rehabilitation debate, the debate on using the capacity associated with training and rehabilitation. After hearing Asphjell's presentation of the number of institutions in his own household, I understand that he also arranged for conversion and construction elsewhere to take time! I fully agree with the Asphjell representative. But we must not get into the situation that many institutions in their own country are preventing them from expanding where there is a great need, among other things. in the area of the Health West, which has a significant under-coverage associated with training and rehabilitation institutions in relation to a number of other locations. The Council of State has also called for and announced that she will present a national strategy in this area. I appreciate that very much, and I look forward to it coming. I believe that the reason why it is not called an action plan or a rehabilitation plan, but that it is going to become a strategy, is probably a bit of a procedure and where this matter is to be dealt with. That's probably where a lot of it is. I can challenge the Council of State whether she might still – although the plan has been re-baptized into a ‘strategic’ – invite the Stortinget to join in and deal with this. Then Stortinget can also say his opinion, have a hand on the wheel, and make many, good and useful recordings, which the council will certainly appreciate. It may be okay that the matter is also dealt with in Stortinget. That invitation is thus given to the Council of State. I think that the state council in its time made reference to the care of the elderly and the challenges there – she handed out a hand to the Stortinget and said that listen here, we would like to make representations before we come to the final result, we would like to take the debate to the full – would have been well served in this matter as well. Rehabilitation and training have to do with seeing the whole human being. It has to do with being able to follow a person from a man – I kept saying – needs help and until you either get back to work or are better able to live with your own illness. Not everyone can get training and rehabilitation and then come back to work, but a lot of people need it to deal with their disease in the future. It's also important to keep in place. They are not covered by additional appropriations of 604 million. kr for the purchase of rehabilitation services, for the agreement with the social partners was to reduce sick leave, in order to keep it low. Therefore, it is important that we increase the scope of action also for regional health businesses, because that is where the liability for payment for these services is now located. I've been to one of the rehabilitation institutions that Asphjell's representative, LHL's institution at Røros, which is just an institution that has taken on the demand for quality – that we ensure quality building. But then we also have to be willing to pay for it. That's what's a little bit of a problem. On the one hand, you want to build quality – then the price also goes up – and then you get problems at the other end; you lose the tenders because you have invested in quality. That's why we have to follow this closely. We've asked for quality, we need quality, but then we also have to be willing to pay for it. Finally, I want to think about what has to do with the individual level. That is an individual requirement. It is said that there is also a right to health care related to rehabilitation. The problem is, we don't follow the law that's there. The problem in an individual plan, which is actually a right, is being followed to a negligible degree. Then we have to focus on making sure that the laws and rules that are actually being followed. The same is true in relation to rehabilitation. Well, it's no use with a law if the law isn't followed. That's the issue we have to address right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e854	In SV we think this is an important interpellation, and it is very good that the representative Wohnning has taken such an initiative. I want to give this rose at first. Rehabilitation and good quality rehabilitation are necessary in order to have a good and comprehensive health service, and it is not without reason that the large patient and user organisations are very concerned about this particular topic. That is why we look forward to the rehabilitation strategy that comes soon from the Government. We are also very concerned that rehabilitation and training must be central to putting the agreed solution to the sick leave debate into practice. Here, a lot of money will be spent on reducing sick leave, and we know that muscle and skeletal disorders and mild mental disorders are important causes of sick leave. Giving people an offer quickly when they've fallen out of work, before they start doubting their own abilities and mastering, getting social distress or developing more serious diseases than they had before is terribly important. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will pay particular attention to rehabilitation and rehabilitation in his mission papers to regional health companies. It's very important. It is important that both medical and occupational rehabilitation is included in this. There is little point in investing billions of money in the treatment of diseases and disorders if we do not also ensure that patients master their daily lives. Then they quickly end up in the swing door, in and out of the hospital. In particular, this applies to the chroniclers. It is important that municipalities also provide good habilitation and rehabilitation services. This requires understanding of the problem of rehabilitation, good cooperation solutions and a sufficient economy. Monitoring shall be carried out in order to find out more about the unmet need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation underpinning the national strategy. It is important that the strategy ensures an overall perspective on rehabilitation and includes both institution-based and municipal rehabilitation. We have expectations that the work of the Government in this area will contribute to better achievement of the goal of the rehabilitation field in Norway. SV is also concerned that the status of the habilitation and rehabilitation field needs to be increased and that there needs to be a better understanding of the place of habilitation and rehabilitation in a public health perspective. Good rehabilitation requires both interdisciplinary and high levels of competence. SV is concerned about the need for health enterprises to strengthen and improve institutional rehabilitation, as well as the need for local authorities to make an effort. We need to ensure that the available capacity in labour-oriented rehabilitation is exploited and that long-term agreements with the institutions are facilitated. Free capacity in existing institutions has to be monitored. This has a unanimous committee fixed. Long waiting time for rehabilitation and rehabilitation lead to poorer predictions for successful treatment. Therefore, it is also important to ensure active use of individual levels. We support the active attitude of the Minister of Health towards this. A power cap is needed to ensure that individual levels are used, because this is a very good tool, when used correctly, to ensure both interaction, patient involvement and progress in the course of treatment. We are also pleased that the procurement regulation has been amended so that rehabilitation services provided outside hospitals can now be acquired under the so-called direct acquisition procedure, where only the main requirements of the Acquisition Act must be met. In addition, it is very important to ensure the long-term nature of the agreements with the institutions, in particular with the non-profit institutions. Purchases of rehabilitation sites shall be treated equally, irrespective of the region to which they belong. I also want to bring out the special health institutions, i.e. Hernes Institutt, Attführungscenter in Rauland, Beitostølen Health Sports Center and Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre, which are nationwide and ideal institutions of competence in the field of rehabilitation. They shall have a spearhead function and be drivers for the development of specialised rehabilitation. These institutions have specific challenges in the field of research and development, which it is important for regional health businesses to take into account in the procurement process. A unanimous committee determines in the budget setting, as the representative of Wage said, that ‘habilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major area of health care’. This is great. Such a commitment will contribute to better quality of life and greater autonomy for patients, while reducing the need for care services. At the end of the day, I would like to say to the representative that we are distancing ourselves from the claim that the level of ambition for rehabilitation has been written down, as he said. The Soria Moria declaration applies, and it states that we are to ‘ensure the training and rehabilitation of all those who need it’. If we are first to enter into internal negotiations in the committee’s work, I can tell you that it was the government fraction that had the case-presidentship of this chapter and that all the comments have been approved by the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e873	I would also like to commend the representative for his salary in order to travel this interpellation. People who have become ill or who have suffered an injury must face comprehensive treatment services with a focus on prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. This must apply to all, regardless of age, the type of disability and diagnosis and beyond, regardless of the individual’s ability to work. Rehabilitation must be based on respect for human dignity and also on man's right to determine for himself vital living conditions and to formulate his own goals. When we see how important habilitation and rehabilitation are to the individual, I also have great expectations of the government's announced rehabilitation strategy. With many input from user groups in my back, I would have liked to have seen that there was a plan or a big message, because, as the interpellant has explained, there are major deficiencies in the rehabilitation offer to the country's residents. This has also been pointed out by the Council of State. But the most important thing is what the strategy plan that has now been adopted should contain. Personally, I believe that rehabilitation must be given a stronger position in the law. I will come back to this in connection with my own proposal for a representative. Today, the right to rehabilitation is enshrined in the law as a sub-item or as a definition of health care, which is correctly attached to the right, as the representative also pointed out. But rehabilitation deserves a much more visible and independent place in the law. Several patient organisations also confirm this. And the fact that rehabilitation does not work today for many patients and many patient groups suggests that the law is not or is perceived as strong enough. The disease picture in Norway is changing. The incidence of cancer and type 2 diabetes is increasing, and there are increasing numbers of older people. An increasing number of people with cancer and chronic diseases live with their disease for many years and learn to master a lot themselves. To meet these challenges, more attention needs to be paid to enabling patients to master their own illness and disability in everyday life, and also to prevention and health promotion measures, in society in general and in hospital settings in particular. Reducing suffering and improving quality of life is an important objective for individuals, while we know that there can be a good social economy in very many cases. Reduced need for future treatment, future care, medications, greater ability to be at work and to participate on the basis of their own preferences and opportunities are the desired effects of good rehabilitation. A study at the Fairing Clinic showed that only one in five who gets a serious heart event is involved in heart rehabilitation. Lung rehabilitation reduces hospital emergencies for those with COPD. It can also be documented. A 2004 study carried out by the National Audit Office on the potential for efficiency in hospitals showed that, in hip operations, the most effective hospitals used rehabilitation institutions as an integral part of the treatment. It must be such that a patient is not defined as having completed an operation. Rehabilitation is also an important part of the treatment. In many cases, it is essential to initiate rehabilitation measures shortly after disease or injury has occurred, including: to recover the previous level of function, possibly to minimise the loss of function. This will prevent frequent hospital cleaning next time. Faster offers could also mean saving suffering and saving health costs. Rehabilitation has not been adequately prioritised either in municipalities or in specialist health services, as also mentioned at national health level. Finally, I would like to mention that research is important, which was also discussed by the Council of State. Finally, I would like to point out the central point of the fact that rehabilitation includes relatives. Learning and mastering centres play an important role in this work. Increased knowledge and information about your own disease and situation, in cooperation with relatives, is also of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e899	The right to rehabilitation and rehabilitation is based on the right to necessary health care, as most parties say. It's a little interesting, I think, that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which have ruled together for four years, disagree on whether rehabilitation and rehabilitation are based in this court. We have registered that the representative Davøy has made a proposal in Stortinget on the right to rehabilitation. Therefore, it may not be so strange that the previous government, the Cooperation Government, left some chaos in this area when it left the government offices. The responsibility for rehabilitation was transferred to the regional health companies, and when the Stoltenberg government took over, there was chaos in the bidding rounds, which excluded many institutions, including those institutions that the representative Inge Wohnung spoke so much about earlier. In addition, this government chose not to do anything about the distribution of health regions between them. This government and the Health Council say in the State budget that one should reduce a sample to look at the distribution of rehabilitation funds to regional health enterprises. It is obvious that parts of the country are coming out very badly after the reorganization proposed by the previous government, the Co-operation Administration. Rehabilitation is a responsibility of the municipal health service, and it lies within the specialist health service. I think it is reassuring that the Council of State so clearly states how this should be followed up through the annual circular to the municipalities and in the mission document of the regional health companies. The Council of State tells us that a strategy for rehabilitation will be presented in the new year, and that is important. I think it's a bit pathetic that it leads to a vocabulary about whether it's an action plan or a strategy. The essential thing – whether it is called an action plan or a strategy – is that this strategy or action plan becomes visible in the annual budgets, which determine the level of rehabilitation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e913	Rehabilitation and rehabilitation are an important topic, but at the same time these words – rehabilitation and rehabilitation – are difficult to deal with. There are some who believe that rehabilitation is the whole process – from one person to full recovery under medical treatment. But the manipulation is also used in other contexts. If the metamorphosis is used in the broadest sense, it involves the whole process – from a human being to some form of treatment until a satisfactory result is achieved. It may be tempting to ask: What is satisfactory rehabilitation? What is it, really? What is good rehabilitation? I want to claim that we have too little competence, too little knowledge of what is good rehabilitation. When it comes to the evaluation of rehabilitation, what happens after one has undergone a rehabilitation – the result is also a neglected area. Here, there is a clear need to strengthen research in order to get better knowledge of what we're doing. In particular, this applies to musculoskeletal disorders, where we have far too little knowledge of what actually works. We know that we have major challenges, and then it's important that we do what we have to do in this area, in the best possible way. We don't have enough resources to get the most out of. 15 pst. Of those who go on sick leave for a year, they come back to work. 50 pst. ends up in rehabilitation. 20 pst. have a disability benefit, and 15 pst. ends up reintroducing. Here, there is a great potential for getting people back to work by increasing the quality of rehabilitation. We need, as we have heard before today, labour which is not least part of the health and care sector. The aim is that rehabilitation and rehabilitation should help people with disabilities to achieve the best possible functional and mastering capacity, self-employment and social participation in society or else. It has been about strategy plans, but there is also a rehabilitation message, St.meld. No 21 for 1998-99, which mentions empowerment, development and research in the field of rehabilitation. But as I've already said, I think we still know too little about this area. Another problem is that there are considerable differences in the provision of rehabilitation services in individual municipalities. It's got a lot of stuff. the context in which the regulation is interpreted differently. At least we have received many feedback from local authorities that point out that there are major coordination problems associated with rehabilitation. We also know that rehabilitation started in the second line service often stops in the first line service. So here we have some interaction challenges. I think here we have, as I said, too many people falling between two chairs. Left mind, as the representative also pointed out, that one way to solve this is to stimulate more research, as I said, on what is good rehabilitation, and what actually works. In addition, the coordination of rehabilitation needs to be put on the map and evaluated, especially between the different levels of service. I actually perceive the state council so that it is busy interacting with service levels. I therefore expect that when the national strategy — if it is called — is presented over the New Year, the challenges of coordination and interaction between service levels will be put into focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e932	Ensuring rehabilitation for all who need it is important and an ambitious objective. This means that a number of people who today have been dissatisfied because they have lacked a good rehabilitation offer can now have a new chance. It is important for health enterprises to give priority to the provision of rehabilitation services in their territory, for the whole human being to be seen, or, in another way, for a human view based on the right of all to be rehabilitated on the individual’s premises. Good rehabilitation is to get to an individual plan, a coordinated and personalised plan. This requires an effort throughout the treatment chain from primary doctors to specialists and to the learning and mastering centres. For example, for those with a severe hearing impairment, and indeed many people have, an overall offer is very important for improving quality of life and for as many as possible continuing to work. Therefore, a good rehabilitation service must also include good organisation at work. Rehabilitation shall also provide guidance and respect for the diversity of the need for individuals in the different life stages and stages of the disease. I am very proud that the Council of State so clearly stresses that in a future rehabilitation, the right to decide what is important in your own life should be the overall one. Health regions also need to be challenged: have they followed up what the Stortinget and the Government have called for to have a good rehabilitation offer? For some I think there's a piece left, even though they've now received a grant of their own. Here, I think we all have to be watchkeepers, so that rehabilitation gets the place it needs in health businesses. I also believe that good rehabilitation depends on improving the knowledge base for decisions on rehabilitation for individuals, and at all stages of the treatment chain. Quality development at the learning and mastering centres and research will produce a more optimal effect. I think that anyone who's become ill and who's had some disability, wants to be a part of something, a part of the working life, doing itself, getting a quality of life that gives less supplemental diseases. Further training of health professionals is also important, and perhaps an incentive for more people to learn more about what is an optimal rehabilitation, for example. by allowing more people to take the master's degree in rehabilitation. As far as I know, we have 37 learning and mastering centres in Norway. They offer a little different rehabilitation, but it is important in the new strategy for rehabilitation that the knowledge acquired by the different learning and mastering centres needs to be disseminated between them and made better known by primary doctors and specialists, and not least by research communities. There is a lot of good in what the state council has prepared for. Whether the strategy is dependent on a regulation we already have, or whether it is going to the Stortinge for our own treatment, is not so important. The important thing is that health businesses are able to do the job they are going to do. Good rehabilitation is better quality of life for individuals and, in fact, also less expenditure for individuals and for society as a whole. Then we'll have to take the debate on preventive health work another time. Because it's like Gro Harlem Brundtland once said, everything is related to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e951	There has been a lot of talk about rehabilitation and less about habilitation — perhaps especially for the group that the Council of State was involved in, children with a strong disability. The right is concerned that the provision of disabled children needs to be strengthened and that the provision of services needs to be developed in accordance with the knowledge available on the possibilities for learning and development of people with disabilities. Parents with brain-damaged children in need of habilitation must be guaranteed an equivalent offer. They must be provided with advice and guidance, irrespective of where they live in the country. We have seen examples in the last year of discrimination against families with children who need habilitation. Parents following intensive programmes for the training of children with acquired brain damage believe that we represent a quite significant resource for the development of the child and an economic saving for society as well. Kids are different, families are different, and it's important that we make sure that they get offers that are individually adapted. For many years, all the parties here in Stortinget have agreed that parents should have the freedom to choose between alternative intensive programmes for the training of their children. Children need long-term and co-ordinated offers, and everyone has thought it must be obvious that once parents have chosen a method and an intensive programme, parents' choices must be respected. It lasted until last autumn. What the government parties had supported for many years, namely that parents should choose training programmes and methods for their children, and that that choice should be respected, the government parties dropped off, and that is not what they are now in this budgetary position. It's very disappointing, precisely because these parents are a significant resource for these children. They have a everyday life that I don't think any of us who are here can imagine. They provide for their kids, and then it's important that we prepare for the parents and the families and try to make it as easy as possible to make their everyday life work. I think it is important that once they have chosen such a programme, simple and flexible recognition procedures are established with sufficient regional capacity and, as I said, based on the priorities and choices of parents in cooperation with the family doctors. Part of this is a specialist health service, but I think it is very important that healthcare companies cooperate with the municipalities and that they together have to be responsible for financial and practical support for the families. The framework around each family must be individually adapted and based on economic predictability. During the budgetary procedure, the Right promoted a proposal to ensure a professionally independent review of the different methods and programmes used for the habilitation of brain damaged children and of their effectiveness. The reason why we want that is because there is disagreement in the professional environment in Norway about what works. The professional environment in Norway is very small. I know that many of the parents use foreign methods that are well documented. I believe it is important for us to have a review of both the national offers and the international methods and programmes, and we therefore proposed that the Knowledge Centre, as an independent research centre, should be given that task. We made a proposal on it, and I am very pleased that a unanimous committee joined it. Now it's going very fast, President. – We also had a proposal for a user-driven competence and resource centre. It has not been approved. I also find that disappointing. As I said, parents are also a valuable group for the professional community, and they could cooperate. But I hope that as time goes by, we can get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e968	First a few necessary clarifications. First, there is no disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the Right. It was not while we were in government, nor is it today – nor is it between the representative Davøy and me. I look forward to discussing whether the legal basis is good enough to prioritise rehabilitation. The Council of State fell into a small part of its last attempt to tempt the practice of the maximum ‘attack is the best defence’. That's not always wise. It inspired the representative, Mr. Schjälaa, to practice it with even greater enthusiasm, and I'm afraid they're both on the wrong track. The previous government left no chaos in this area. On the other hand, the three current government parties disagreed between themselves. The Workers' Party, the party of the Council of State, supported the proposals of the Cooperative Government that the specialist health service is the responsibility of health companies and that, therefore, the commissioning function in this area should also be the responsibility of health establishments. The two government partners were against it. So to the extent that it's chaos, it's on the red-green side of the view of the organization. But let me point out that it is not primarily the organisation and location of responsibility for the ordering function that determines how resources are managed. The Council of State has the highest political responsibility in any case, and it is the Council of State which has the power to instruct health businesses to give priority to the various purposes for which they are responsible. On one point, I noted the responses to the appropriate response in the second input of the Council of State, and it was in examining how the cost picture can be explained in the relationship between the private rehabilitation and training institutions and the public authorities. I am pleased, and I hope that the Council of State will follow it up and come back with an answer to what such a study is producing from new knowledge. Finally, research: the Minister of Knowledge has been harmed to characterise the Government's budget for research and higher education, as a breakaway. There have been a few decades in skating since there was a current problem. It would be desirable if we had a government that saw that research and the establishment of new knowledge in general is the most important key to the future. However, in this area it is important that the Minister of Health and Health, in relation to his colleague, the Minister of Knowledge, has high ambitions for increased research efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e983	The representative, Wohnning, accused me and the representative, Skjälaa, of being on the wrong track when we tried to suggest that there was a not completely transparent and simple situation in this field when we took over the government power, because the arrangements in the case of tenders had been changed and the responsibility transferred to the regional health companies. If this government had put in no more money to save some rehabilitation institutions, it would have been far fewer places than what is now the situation. That's why it comes in a strange light when the representative's salary accuses this government of the decline in the number of rehabilitation sites. - But leave it alone. There is no doubt that, in the future, we will focus heavily on this through strong governance signals to the RHFs, through more money for rehabilitation, through more investment in research – in this important area, we also have ambitious objectives – and by exploiting the capacity of both public and private providers. I can confirm that when we have carried out a broader review and compared costs between private and public, where possible, I will return to Stortinget with this. Some reason why there may be a difference in costs is that the qualifications of the personnel are different. Therefore, there may be more expensive places compared to what you can set up with. But we can get back to this. We are very aware of what several representatives have been involved in, namely the geographical distribution of the rehabilitation money. We set down a separate sample to go through the distribution of income between regional health enterprises, and thereby also to rehabilitation institutions. We're going to get back to that, too. So it's important for me to stress that if someone calls it a strategy for rehabilitation or a plan, it's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that there seems to be a broad consensus on strengthening both rehabilitation and habilitation, as among others. The representative, Sjøli, was concerned about, in the future, about children, and that is what we are now going to bet on further. I agree with the representative Nesvik that we have a challenge in ensuring that the laws and regulations in force in this area are followed, and then there is no doubt that people who need rehabilitation and rehabilitation in Norway are covered by the Patient Rights Act. It should make it superfluous that one does even more on the law. But it is a challenge that it should actually work in practice in all contexts. Like the representative Brørby and many others, I am concerned that the learning and mastering centres work well everywhere in the country, both for the sake of the people involved, and for the sake of the relatives. I think a lot of people have looked at how important it is, how cheap it is, but also how much you get out of it. Therefore, we have to make sure that there is a reality in far more places than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e998	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1004	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1410	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1452	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a binding multiannual escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances in the local government sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1467	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1491	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop strategies/action plans for the use of natural gas in the regions around the adopted and planned gas power plants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1506	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen and extend Young Entrepreneurship. The scheme must be financed in such a way as to enable it to operate in a stable manner.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1536	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstingt on 30 November 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for full non-tax treatment of administrative services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and for stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1555	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Bjørg-Irene Østrem, on behalf of the Left, from the meeting of the Odelsting on 30 November: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendment to the Local Government Act to allow local government to choose from a wider range of cooperation models for inter-municipal cooperation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1634	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:85 Proposals by the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Trine Skei Grande, Anne Margrethe Larsen and Lars-Henrik Michelsen to introduce a girlfriend visa for non-residents with Norwegian girlfriends – not acceptable.’ [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1640	This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1661	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 November: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the municipal law and the electoral law in such a way that local authorities and county councils themselves choose the electoral method for the election of rapporteur and rapporteur.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1677	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1684	The correct number of votes will then be 62 votes against the proposal and 43 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1692	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Vera Lysklätt, on behalf of the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget, meeting on 16 November 2006: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals which are not based on comprehensive representation, so that the other provisions of the Local Government Act on gender balance and eligibility, including the selection of persons under 18 years of age, are respected.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1711	During the debate, Mr Starheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish the following objectives for better public sector opening times to be implemented before 2009:1. Government offices with large audiences must be open until 9.00 p.m. 1800 on weekdays and in some cases on Saturdays. Examples are traffic stations, tax havens, labour inspectorate, passport requests, customs and tax havens.2. All government offices with public contacts shall have solutions for telephone service during this ageing period up to 1 p.m. 1800 on weekdays and from 6 p.m. 1000 to 1:00 p.m. 1400 on Saturdays. Examples: Husbanken, Statens Loan Fund for Education, Brønnøysund Registers, Fylkesmannen, Staats Kontaktsverkehrs, Arbeitsverkehrsverkehrs.3. MinSide and norge.no websites shall provide state agencies with information and provide personal electronic services 24 hours a day. This shall be in place during 2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1723	This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1953	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish and implement a competence plan for the recruitment of several qualified workers to the care sector in accordance with the proposed plan in Document No. 8:88 [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1959	This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1980	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to ensure that there is consistency between the State restrictions on sales times for beer and other alcoholic beverages with a volume percentage between 2,5 and 4.7 and general opening times for shops in Norway on weekdays.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e1986	This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e2003	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04-2.ana.ud2368e2033	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
